i-efedf8c9730dab99-8	Madam President, I would like Runar Filer has asked me if I have seen the problem of parental influence and that it can occur in today's Sweden that children are divided from their parents in a wrong way, and if I take any action. He has also asked me if I can take the initiative to review the legal relationship between children and parents in the parental code, as well as the directives and recommendations of the authorities governing the handling of family law matters. I have recently answered a similar parliamentary question from Runar Filer, so my answer today he will, in many ways, recognize. The best interests of the child are crucial to any decision on custody, housing and association. When assessing what is best for the child, the need for close and good contact with both parents must be taken into account in particular. As a starting point, it is in most cases best for the child to have both parents involved and take responsibility for the child. However, the child's right to both parents must not mean that the child must live or associate with a parent in all circumstances. When assessing the best interests of the child, the child's wishes should always be taken into account, taking into account the age and maturity of the child. The right of a child to express his or her views does not mean that the child should be forced to choose between his or her parents. The 2014 custody investigation has made a number of proposals aimed at further strengthening the child perspective in matters of custody, housing and social relations. The investigation suggests, among other things, that the child's right to information should be clarified and that the child does not need to express a firm opinion in order to have his or her views taken into account. The investigation also suggests that the social welfare committee should hear the child even if the guardians oppose this. Work is now under way within the Government Office to produce a Council of Law referral based on the report of the investigation. The plan is that the legislative referral will be decided shortly.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-13	Madam President, I would like I thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. It is very important and of course that the best interests of the child are respected. But when it comes to parenting and parenting, when one strongly affects the child's position, it can lead to the child's worst. A custody dispute usually starts when love ends in a relationship. Animosity about custody, housing and association governs. Maybe one parent meets a new partner. Eventually, the parent may want the child to call the new partner father or mother. Family law starts a custody inquiry because the parents don't get along. In the family court investigation, it may say that the child does not want to see Dad, but it may actually be the mother who does not want the child to meet the father. In almost all cases, the district court judges on the basis of the family court's written custody inquiry, which is the main material for the court: My father is strange and does strange things, or my mother doesn't care about me. The child may be so affected by the resident parent that it says things that have been fed or expected to say by a controlling parent, so-called parental influence or analienation, that the father is portrayed as an alien, an odd and frightening person. I would like to point out that even mothers are affected by fathers who affect their children. The reason for my interpellation is that the Minister of Justice delivered a non-answer to my written question. Nothing is mentioned about parental influence. This is, first of all, a cry for help from all the parents and their children where the other parent used the children as a tool in bitter custody disputes. The 2006 care reform takes care of the child's best interests and is certainly an improvement over the previous period. Of course, those who hurt their children should not see them. But what the reform did not take up is that a parent who wants to smear the other parent in front of the child can be involved in winning with that approach. The problem I describe concerns not least the impact of children who are in the span over ten years where the child's will should be taken into account in line with the child's maturity and age. The Parental Code states that if the child has reached such an age and maturity that his or her will should be taken into account, enforcement may not take place against the child's will unless the court considers it necessary for the best interests of the child. It is of course good and very important, and I would like to emphasise that strongly. Of course, that is not the part I question and criticise, it is the influence of parents on the child. Of course, I am not defending parents who are physically, psychologically, sexually or otherwise disparagingly harming their child. Of course, those parents shouldn't have custody. I say this so that the Minister does not take the opportunity to collect cheap points and try to shoot the messenger. A child who is constantly fed negative signals about his or her parent, ranging from constant complaint to routine sighs and control questions about what it really is like with his or her father, gets confused in his or her loyalty and feels pressure to take a stand in his or her parents' conflict – influenced by a parent, alienated. A child's being influenced and taking a stand against one of his parents can affect both mothers and fathers. Children tell us what is expected of the mother in discussions with social authorities and family law that conducts the custody investigation.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-22	Madam President, I would like When I read the interpellation I felt that it was a bit difficult to get a grip on what Runar Filer really wanted, but when I hear him here, it becomes clear what he wants. It is also clear from his wording that he believes that I should review the legal relationship between children and parents in the direction that I should change the legislation so that, to a greater extent, children will have to meet parents they do not want to meet. That is what this ultimately runs down to. Then I can say straight up and down that I am not going to do such a review. We don't have a father's perspective on these issues. We do not have a mother's perspective on these issues either. We have a child perspective on these issues. It is the best interests of the child that should be decisive, and then the child's voice should also weigh heavily in the negotiations. The starting point should not be the parents' right to the child but the child's right to their parents. If a child does not want to see one parent, it must be respected in one way or another. In some cases, we may find it quite obvious, for example, when one parent has committed an assault on the child, which Runar Filer brings up. My firm opinion is that no children should have to meet their perpetrators. On this point, in fact, I think that the legislation should be made even clearer. We may need to do a review in that direction, but that is the opposite of what Runar Filer wants. He wants to open up a space so that children will increasingly need to meet parents they do not want to meet. In this respect, I believe that the discussion on parenting leads to errors. It basically blames the child. My view is that it is the responsibility of the parent, the adult, to build a relationship with the child so that the child wants to meet the parent, no matter what the other parent says about his former. It is the adult's responsibility to make sure to build such a relationship with his child that the child wants to meet his or her parent, no matter what the other parent says. That's how it has to be. In any case, however you turn it around, it is very difficult, not to say impossible, to legislate on an issue that basically deals with how parents talk to their children. Our starting point, once again, is the best interests of the child, but also the right of the child to be heard in these often very difficult situations. The child's opinion should also be taken seriously and taken into account. I am not going to upset that starting point, and that is why we are not going to make such a review as Runar Filer is looking for.
i-VSksazHfCsyuECtUji6tvq	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Morgan Johansson! In the best of worlds, Morgan, it works as you say. But this isn't about what you're talking about. These are situations where children are wrongly separated from their parents because of the strong influence of a parent, such as social authorities, family law officers or courts that fail to identify. It is a question of manipulation, not only by the child, but also by the courts, the judiciary and investigators. It turns out it pays to lie in such custody disputes. It is also often, though not always, the resident parent who benefits from this, for the child is in a position of dependence on the person he lives with. Then there will be a great conflict of loyalty. You get caught and you feel really bad. I don't think you're answering my question at all, Morgan. It's easy to manipulate children into believing in wrong things. If this goes on for ten years, it is almost impossible to fail. At the age of 10, 11 or 12, when children can be considered to have reached the maturity required to be considered, the child, if affected for many years, is even more coloured. The district courts almost always judge as the custody investigations of the family courts suggest. Has the child expressed that it does not want to live with the other parent, or even meet him, that parent has an almost impossible uphill. Considers the right that cooperation between parents is not possible, as the acting parent clearly points out and ensures – the resident parent can do anything to sabotage, but the court will still usually suggest it – is sentenced to this sole custody. This can mean that the child will never see his or her parent again, depending on how far the influence is, because the other parent has exposed the child to strong influence and the child feels pressure and is in an addiction position. It is that simple today, with the existing legislation. If the contact is broken, contact with the entire network on that side of the family will also be interrupted. Tragically, the child loses the priceless contact and love ties with his grandmother and grandfather, sometimes Grandma and Grandpa, because of the lack of knowledge among decision-making authorities and the judiciary. There is frustration out there with parents who have lost contact with their children on strange grounds. The child, since it is in an dependency position with the resident parent, can take a stand for survival reasons, as I said. These children feel bad. They risk lifelong anxiety, poor self-esteem, mental problems and perhaps addiction. It is a trauma for every child who is separated from one parent in early childhood. Parents who deliberately sabotage the child's ability to associate with, or even contact, the other parent must be stopped. You throw away letters from the other parent, the child is not allowed to bring home gifts from the other parent, you sabotage Christmas Eves, birthdays and everything the other parent does for the child to have fun. It goes on for years, elaborately and strategically, to win over the child. If uneducated parents and loved ones see and experience this, they should also be required to be able to identify the problem and see it as a major social problem, rather than just talking about the problem, as when the cat goes around the hot porridge, and routinely say that it is the best interests of the child that are crucial for any decision on custody, housing and association. There is a lawyer who has written a really good book called Sveket; Bertil Begander is his name. The Express had a big article about him, where he says that the courts often separate children from their parents unnecessarily, because of lies and parental influence. He strongly criticised the family justice system in Sweden.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-38	I would like to remind the honourable Member that we are talking through the President and we are not using you
i-efedf8c9730dab99-39	Madam President, I would like I don't agree with Runar Filer that I don't answer his questions. Actually, I do. He asks me if I will take any initiative to review the legal relationship between children and parents in the Parental Code – that is the main theme of this debate. My answer to that question is no, I will not take such an initiative. I am not going to do such a review. Runar Filer is dissatisfied with that answer, but I still answer the question. I would rather say that we are moving in the other direction of the policy we are pursuing. Rather, we are strengthening the rights of the child. If we were to do what Runar Filer wants, we would, as I said, force children to meet more and more parents they do not want to see. Rather, we are moving in the other direction. A new bill on custody, social security and housing will shortly be published. There we strengthen the child's right to information in connection with custody disputes. We also strengthen the opportunity to hear the child's opinion. The Social Welfare Board should be able to hear the child even if the guardian opposes it so that one can really clarify what the child's position is really, if this can be done. Our point of entry is that the child's views should be taken into account, but of course the child should never be forced to choose between his or her parents. I think there's a lot to do to prevent custody disputes before it goes as far as Runar Filer describes. Therefore, in the investigation we are now working on, there are also proposals that, before going to a dispute hearing in these cases, you should have mandatory discussions, which the social welfare committee should organise. In this way, some conflicts may be resolved before going to court. I think that is a good way forward. This is very difficult to legislate on, as we have been talking about. We cannot legislate on how parents talk to their children. There are, like, the limits of politics. You still have to have a basic attitude. What should we consider and what is important when such a dispute arises? I mean, the child's voice should be very heavy. After all, it is the adult's responsibility to build such a relationship with his child that the child wants to meet the adult, no matter what the other parent thinks or says. It is the adult's responsibility to do this. In fact, much longer, I do not believe that policy comes on these issues. Then there will always be conflicts that are often very infected and difficult; I understand that too. After all, however, it is the child's best interests that should apply, and the child's voice should weigh heavily.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-46	Madam President, I would like It is about tools, research and science to be able to identify this. There is much research in this area, unfortunately not in the form of Swedish literature, but very much English. This is not missing, but there is nothing Socialstyrelsen has been interested in implementing here in Sweden. The conclusion must be that the Minister does not answer my questions. I haven't heard a single word about parental influence. In his world this does not seem to exist. Whether it is a result of unwillingness or ignorance of this problem may be wondered. Distinguishing a parent during childhood is, as I said, a trauma. Parental influence is a very serious approach, a tool for gaining monopoly and control over their child. A child who completely loses contact with one parent also loses half his network of relatives on the alienated parent's side. The child loses resources in the form of family, friends and money. It may contribute to the coming poverty in life because in one's beginnings in life you have only one leg to stand on as far as the family is concerned. Social authorities are tied up by the fact that the National Board of Health and Welfare does not recognise parental alienation, as it is called in English. The Minister must review the legal relationship between children and parents in the Parental Code, as well as the directives and recommendations of authorities governing the handling of family law matters. Sweden is far behind many other countries, where one has now begun to understand the role that parental alienation can play in this context. It is with today's instruments and instructions too easy to deceive administrators and investigators, who do not understand that the child is subject to strong parental influence and do not want anything more than to be with their other parent but feel tremendous pressure. For knowledge, research and other information that is already available, we are at least 20 years behind in Sweden. In a number of countries, parental influence has even been criminalised. Ireland is the latest in the line. Several states in the United States have also criminalised.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-52	Madam President, I would like It is clear that in such situations there are always different forms of parental influence. You are in a constant relationship with your children, especially in the infected situations that are at issue here. But to say, based on this, that we should remake the legislation, so that children will increasingly have to meet the parents they do not want to meet, or that one should intervene in the relationship in such a way is for me to go too far. I say the opposite: after all, it is always the adult's responsibility to make sure that the children want to meet. That is as far as that goes. Of course I'm responding to the interpellation. The question was whether we intend to make such a review, and I say no. I'm not gonna do that. I don't think there's any reason for that. Rather, we are moving in the other direction, that is, strengthening the child's right to be heard. The proposal that is now in the investigation, that the social welfare committee should be able to hear the child even if one of the guardians is against it, means that you actually get a room where you can clarify the child's position and where it may be easier to talk openly about the situation. We thereby also strengthen the child and perhaps reduce the risk of the particular type of influence that Runar Filer points to. Thank you again for the debate. But, as I said, I am not going to make such a review as Runar Filer is asking for.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-57	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me whether I am satisfied with the impact assessments made in the Migration Committee's report and the additional memo to the report. On 15 September 2020, the government received the Migration Committee's report A sustainable migration policy (SOU 2020:54). The report has been referred and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. A memorandum of supplementary proposals has also been developed within the Ministry of Justice. It has also been referred and prepared within the Government Office. In accordance with the committee regulation and the regulation on regulatory impact assessment, a committee shall specify cost estimates and other impact assessments. So has the Migration Committee. Where possible, a committee shall also quantify the socio-economic impact of the proposals put forward and describe important positions in the formulation of the proposals. The Migration Committee has presented a detailed impact assessment of its proposals in the report. The Committee has been assisted by, among other things, the Finnish Immigration Service in terms of calculations. The additional memorandum referred to by the Government also includes an impact assessment. As regards the impact of asylum-related immigration on the pension system, the Committee considers that this is particularly affected by the success of integration and the speed with which newcomers enter the labour market. In the Committee's view, the proposals contained in the report are likely to limit the impact of migration on the pension system as the number of new arrivals is expected to be lower than in the event of a return to the Aliens Act. In addition, Sweden has since 2007 the highest employment rate in the EU. This is a good precondition for our future pensions. Since we gained government power, there has been a gradual improvement in the entry of newcomers into the labour market. Previously, it has taken eight to nine years before at least every other new arrival had a job. That time was halved for those received in 2014. In addition, the government has ensured that public finances have been strengthened and the reception of financial assistance has been reduced. In the further preparation of the Migration Committee's report and the supplementary memo, the Government will take into account the referrals received. The government will present an overall impact assessment in a future proposal. A new legislation will enter into force when the Temporary Act expires in July this year.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-64	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Migration, for your answer. Let me begin by talking a little about the facts that Morgan Johansson mentions in his reply. The employment rate in Sweden is one of the best in the world. But there's always a difference between natives and foreign-borns. Domestic births are around 85% in employment rates, while foreign-borns land at around 67%. Or to put it another way: had the foreign-born been an EU country, they would have been among the absolutely worst in the EU in terms of employment. The same is true of unemployment. The majority of all unemployed – and an absolute majority of all long-term unemployed – are born abroad, and this has been the case for many years. Despite all the billions that have been poured into various integration efforts, the gap continues to be huge. It should be made clear that employment and work are not what the Minister is trying to make it sound like purely statistical. It is enough to work a single hour for a single week to be in work, and here also different types of grant jobs are included. Instead, looking at how many people can actually support themselves without contributions from taxpayers, the figures are quite different. Research from both the Entrepreneurship Forum and the Swedish Trade Research Institute shows that the difference between employment and self-sufficiency is huge. Even if it takes an average of four to five years before half of the foreignborn get into work, it takes from 12 to 15 years before half of them achieve self-sufficiency. In practice, the other half is never self-sufficient. If you look more closely at the facts presented by the Minister for Migration, you can see that at best they are naive and, at worst, deliberately misleading. This is exactly what makes the government's impact assessment hollow and poor. You opt out of facts that don't fit in with the picture you want to paint. The clever thing about the government's impact assessments today, to which Morgan Johansson refers, is to compare only with what a return to the old Aliens Act would mean. In practice, this means that as long as we do not receive more than 160 000 asylum seekers, as we did in 2015, all is peace and joy. Please note, Madam President, that this is something that several referral bodies have also commented on. Sweden is the country in Europe, perhaps even in the world, which in the 2010s has given asylum to the most per capita. According to Eurostat, we have won gold in this medallion three times, silver four times and bronze once, so to speak. 2019 was the first time in a decade that we ended up outside of the prize stool, and then we ended up in place 8 out of 27. At the same time, the Swedish Government is presenting proposals for new relaxations of migration policy. So it is not enough for the levels cemented over the years prior to the Corona to be between 20 000 and 25 000 asylum seekers, and then, of course, the large category of relatives is not included. Madam President, I would like It is no more difficult than this: increasing the pull effects on asylum-related immigration will increase asylum-related immigration. The question that Morgan Johansson has to answer is how much it will increase with the Government's proposals and what practical consequences this will have in an already divided and segregated Sweden.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-74	Madam President, I would like You hear here that Jonas Andersson is back in his favorite subject: to scare people off immigrants. This is a constant feature of the discussions from that point on. Now it is a question of so distrustful of our impact assessments. There is some desire to paint a picture that it will increase, that there will be more and that the costs will increase. Perhaps Jonas Andersson should sometimes consider his own ability to analyze and predict the future. It hasn't been very good. Five years ago, we were in the midst of a refugee crisis. In one year, 163 000 asylum seekers arrived, as Jonas Andersson says. At most, 10,000 a week came. We know that this led to great strain. We had to tighten the rules, which we did, so that we could get control. We did, and now we are in a situation where we in Sweden have the smallest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. So we have come through the refugee crisis, and I say we are not going back there. But I also do not forget what the doomsday prophets in the Swedish Democrats said in 2015 and 2016. Then you stood and said: Now the state finances will fail. Now unemployment is going to increase. Now the social security bill is going to shave the ceiling. That's what you said then. Now, after five years, we know how it really went. Last term of office dropped unemployment. The last term of office reduced the rate of social security contributions. Last term of office, the public debt dropped by SEK 130 billion. We left the last parliamentary term with the lowest public debt since 1979. This was true despite the refugee crisis. None of what we heard the Swedish Democrats predict five years ago came true. What Jonas Andersson is now trying to say will not come true either. You never hear a Swedish democrat talk about this: unemployment has fallen, social welfare has fallen and public debt has fallen. For the Swedish Democrats it is always only a matter of blacking out, blacking out and blacking out Sweden. I say that there is no party that talks as badly about Sweden as the Swedish Democrats do. You never rejoice in our success. It is even so that you are happy to participate in international right-wing campaigns against Sweden. We have now taken control of migration. We won't let go of that control. The proposal we are now working on will not mean that we are in any way losing control, on the contrary. The legislative proposal we are working on now means that we move from permanent residence permits as a general rule to temporary residence permits. After three years, it will be possible to apply for a permanent residence permit if you can support yourself, if you know Swedish, if you have basic knowledge of how Swedish society works and if you have not committed any serious crimes. This in itself means that we will have the strictest legislation in the area of migration policy for almost 40 years. It was in the mid-80s that temporary residence permits were transferred to permanent residence permits. So you have to go back all the way there. It is also possible to compare with other EU countries. This actually means that we will be below the EU average in terms of important parameters, such as the length of residence permits. This means that, with the new legislation, we will be roughly at and even slightly below the EU average. It is clear, Madam President, that we will not again be in a crisis such as we took Sweden out of a few years ago. I was not involved in taking Sweden out of the refugee crisis and then putting forward proposals that would bring us into a new crisis. I can guarantee that both Jonas Andersson and everyone else who listens to this debate.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-84	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the Minister for Migration, for this unenlightened but very imaginative answer! All that's missing are some unicorns and rainbows. It didn't make much sense to me, I have to say. All the figures I presented in my last speech are, of course, official statistics. So anyone can check them out. Let me return to the reality and the logic that the government and Morgan Johansson have presented in the past. The Government is therefore supporting the Migration Committee's report, despite the fact that it means more lax migration legislation than the temporary law. The impact assessment is: Since it is still tougher than the old Aliens Act before 2015, the volumes otherwise do not matter. The government then put forward further proposals for relaxations, when it was not considered that the proposal of the Migration Committee was sufficiently lax. The impact assessment now is: Since the Migration Committee's report is tougher than the old Aliens Act, further increases in volumes do not matter either. The EU released its new proposal for the Migration Pact. It also contained a few points that made both us in the Swedish Democrats and some other parties raise eyebrows. On the one hand, the family concept would be extended so that adult siblings could also come because of affiliation and, on the other hand, it would be crucial where you have your relatives when deciding which EU country is to be responsible for the asylum process. Suddenly it would be possible for an adult man to stand on the border with Greece and apply for asylum in Sweden because his big brother is here. The government's impact assessment of this is non-existent. It is far too uncertain to draw any conclusions about how it could affect the volumes, they say. Madam President, I would like Impact assessments are not an exact science; everyone knows that. There are many factors involved, some more uncertain than others. But it must never be used as an excuse not to do so as thoroughly as you can. Some things follow logical thinking, and you don't have to be rocket scientists to draw some conclusions. Madam President, I would like Last week we had a blizzard in Skellefteå. Because I kept the door closed, it didn't snow in. It would have been different if, on the other hand, I had opened the door in a glade. I don't have to figure out the exact number of snowflakes that sing in to know there's going to be a pile of snow on the floor. The more I open the door, the more snow I will get on the floor. That is also the case with migration policy. The more incentives there are to go to Sweden, the greater the share will be. The more open the door is, the more will come. Again, the question is, to which the Minister for Migration is happy to answer and develop: how much will asylum-related immigration increase with the government's proposals? What will it cost Swedish taxpayers? How will this affect the Swedish pension system? How will this affect the housing shortage? Where's everybody going to live? Over 80 per cent of the population of Kista has a foreign background. In Rosengård there are even more. What should be integrated into when all Swedes have moved out? Nearly half of the population in both Botkyrka and Södertälje are born abroad. How will schools work if there is no native Swedish left in the classrooms? How will care work if everyone needs an interpreter to talk to each other? Where is the practical impact assessment?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-94	Madam President, I would like First of all, people aren't snowflakes. People are people who live and breathe, and they are part of Swedish society. Actually, it is. The debate cannot be conducted in such a way. Since the war in Syria broke out in 2011, Sweden has received 180 000 people and given them protection. I have to say that I am basically very proud of it, because it is 180 000 people who otherwise could well have perished in some bomb plot in Hums or in Aleppo. But for Jonas Andersson this does not matter. He doesn't give a damn about it. For Jonas Andersson, there is no obligation at all – or any responsibility – to help anyone who needs to escape from anything. He sees it only as snowflakes, and he must immediately close the door. No, that's not how I look at it. Jonas Andersson then talks about the impact on unemployment and the impact on pension systems. Yes, but the better we are at getting people into work, the higher our pensions will be. That is why, in my interpellation response, I point out that during the last parliamentary term we almost halved the time it takes for at least half of the new arrivals to get to work. So they got to work more quickly during the last parliamentary term than they did under previous governments. That is because we had good pressure in the economy and high growth. Jonas Andersson then stood and talked about what would happen for Sweden. None of his doomsday prophecies came true – not in the case of the public debt, not in the case of unemployment, nor in the case of social assistance. It is clear that it takes more time for newcomers to enter the labour market than it takes for those of us who were born in Sweden. It takes time to learn Swedish. You need to have contacts that are often linked in the labour market, so that you can get a job and so on. It'll take a little longer. But do not forget in this situation, when we are in the midst of a pandemic, that 34% of our doctors are born in another country. Thirty-nine percent of our carers were born in another country. 30 percent of our nurses were born in another country. We can look at the total workforce. 20 percent of all people in Sweden who wake up in the morning and go to work every day are born in another country. It's almost 1 million people. These people Jonas Andersson never talks about, those who work and work and go to work every day. They contribute to Swedish society and to the prosperity of our country. Jonas Andersson just shrugs his shoulders for them – you shouldn't count on them. There are 1 million people born in another country who are involved in building up Swedish welfare. In fact, I think that Jonas Andersson should sometimes think about that. You're talking about now being a lax piece of legislation and stuff. No, it won't. This will be the strictest legislation in almost 40 years, even tighter than the EU average. It will no longer contribute to a larger proportion of asylum seekers applying to Sweden. This is also what the figures say. When I took office six years ago, 12% of all asylum seekers came to the EU to Sweden. Today it is 3%. The share has thus decreased. But I don't think it matters. Whatever legislative proposal I had submitted to Parliament, the Swedish Democrats would have said in exactly the same way, i.e. that the legislation is too lax. Only when we have hermetically closed all borders and left all international organisations and regulations maybe the Swedish Democrats are satisfied.
i-Daap8ipiCnP7L4CdQMEF8d	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for another imaginative answer! I'm going to leave all the unseemly jumps behind. I understand that it is difficult when people come from reality into this political bubble where people are crowded who have never had a real job outside politics. During the time that Morgan Johansson has been in government, then in opposition and then in government again, I worked with refugees and migrants for 15 years, on the floor. This is where you learn how laws and regulations work in reality and what society looks like in real life. That is where the consequences of the policies being pursued are seen in practice. I understand why the Minister prefers to avoid talking about the issue. It cannot be easy to try to defend an impossible position: on the one hand, be proud and content with reduced levels and, on the other hand, make proposals that will undoubtedly increase levels. I do not know if the Minister is familiar with the concept of double-thinking from a book called 1984 by George Orwell. If nothing else, it could be a good book tip. I used to think it was a fictional novel, but I have more and more begun to understand that it is some kind of documentary about the Social Democrats. The Minister has the habit of using his last post for what is called two-minute hatred in the book. We'll see how it goes today. In fact, Morgan Johansson is the Minister of Migration who has admitted the most asylum seekers and immigrants in Sweden's history at all. During the first years of his ministerial role, he did not lift a finger to reduce immigration. He was proud of it and refused to discuss possible consequences – the consequences that then caused the government to panic during the threat of a system collapse crying forced to take action to reduce the search pressure. Now Morgan Johansson wants to open up again. He is proud of immigration and refuses to discuss the consequences. Maybe the circle is closed. Unfortunately, learning from one's mistakes does not seem to be in the vocabulary of this government.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-110	Madam President, I would like In one breath Jonas Andersson in Skellefteå talks about that I have jumped on him, and then he devotes his last post to something that is not much more than just personal attack. After all, we must ignore this at this point, I think. Now Jonas Andersson once again says that the levels will undoubtedly increase. What's he building it on? Not on the report of the Migration Committee and the impact assessment that is there in any case, nor on the real effects. Jonas Andersson has said year after year since 2015 that the number of asylum seekers will soon increase. Every time I've said, sit down and take it easy! It won't be like that. Every time I got it right and Jonas Andersson in Skellefteå got it wrong. Since 2016, we have had control of the situation, and I can guarantee Jonas Andersson that we will not put forward any proposals that upset that control. Am I then proud of the number of people we received from the war in Syria? Yes, as a matter of fact, I am, and I stand by it. Here we have around 180 000 people since 2011 – men, women and children – who otherwise could well have perished. They came here asking for protection and a new start in life. In fact, I think it is our duty to help those who need help in these situations, because if no one helps them, they will perish. This is what I stand for. It is simply part of a Social Democratic solidarity policy. Then each country must manage its migration in such a way that it can cope with the situation. That's exactly why we tightened up in 2015. We said that although Sweden is good, we are not so good that we are able to receive 10 000 a week. That's impossible. Then we tightened and got the number down to manageable levels again. We will retain that control.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-116	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to ensure that there is order in Sweden's courtrooms and whether I intend to initiate any legislative changes so that disturbances in the courtroom will lead to more severe penalties. It is important for the courts to be able to hold meetings in an orderly and secure manner. Parties, plaintiffs and witnesses shall be able to leave their stories freely and truthfully without feeling threatened, disturbed or under pressure. Of course, it is also important for the Court's staff and for those who visit the Court of Justice in general that the meetings should be organised and secured. In order to ensure that there is effective and clear legislation adapted to the problems of order and security faced by the courts today, the Government has decided on the bill Strengthening the order and security of the courts. The legislative amendments entered into force on 1 July 2019 and include strengthening the ability to intervene against a person who puts pressure on an interrogator. An audience that disrupts order or puts pressure on an interrogator can no longer only be expelled from the courtroom, but is now also completely rejected from the Court's premises. As a general rule, electronic equipment carried by the audience in the courtroom must be switched off and tucked away. The punishment for those who violate the ban on photography in the courtroom has also been tightened. It is the President of the Court who is responsible for the order of the courtroom and who announces the necessary rules of procedure. Through the legislative changes that the Government has produced, the Chairman has gained a stronger role and better conditions and tools to intervene against emerging order problems. Several of the events that may constitute a serious disorder of order are already criminalised with the possibility of severe penalties. These include, for example, threats to officials and abuse of justice. The government has recently tightened the minimum penalty for serious threats to officials to one year's imprisonment. The Government has also given a special investigator the task of assessing whether the scale of penalties for legal abuse should be tightened. The government has therefore taken several measures to ensure that there are conditions for effective action against disorder. It is essential for the government that meetings of our courts can be conducted in a safe and secure manner. From a recent survey conducted by TT with the district courts of the country, it is also clear that all respondents to the survey consider that the order in the negotiations is generally very good or good. However, I am closely following developments in this area.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-122	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden is plagued by crime and gang crime. The feeling that the rule of law is in retreat and that criminal gangs have taken over streets and squares is evident. Crimes such as theft, burglary and personal robbery are not even investigated and rarely lead to consequences for the perpetrators. There are also some serious crimes that are never cleared up, because there is no technical evidence or because witnesses do not dare to stand up. This undermines confidence in the rule of law. However, this debate is not about these cases which cannot be prosecuted, but about the cases where the chain of justice is held and the judicial process is decided in court. There is no doubt that it is essential for the administration of justice that the courts can conduct meetings in a secure and orderly manner. Therefore, the reports of disrespectful behaviour in the courtroom must be taken very seriously. The Minister refers to the Bill Strengthening order and security in court, which entered into force on 1 July 2019. The incidents that I am referring to in my interpellation, which have upset and disturbed the prosecutors, the RACs, the guards, the public and others, took place in 2020, that is, one year after their entry into force. This means that the legislative changes are obviously ineffective. Let me give the Minister some examples. He is happy to comment on whether he thinks it is a matter of court proceedings that should have had consequences. The examples are taken from documents that the prosecutor's office has sent to the Helsingborg District Court regarding the case against twelve gang members charged with serious drug crime. It reads as follows: During interviews with called witnesses, the defendants have produced various sounds that are likely to frighten, provoke, and disturb Witnesses during their witness hearings. Reportedly, one of the defendants has carried a finger over his neck and even put his hands around his own neck as a sign and threat addressed to a Witness during an interrogation. They have eaten and drunk during the negotiation itself. One of the defendants has also had to spend his time in the courtroom lying on a mattress on the floor. The defendants have also brought on mobile phones and computers in the courtroom. None of the above incidents has led to sanctions being imposed by the President. This has meant that the defendants have constantly moved their positions forward. And gradually, both the situation and the atmosphere in the courtroom have deteriorated.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-131	Madam President, I would like With regard to the examples given by Boriana Åberg, I would first like to say that the President of the Court has the power and the ability to intervene in these situations. We have even strengthened these opportunities and powers only a few years ago when new legislation came into place. I can't be in every courthouse every day trying to get things straight. Indeed, the chairman, the judge, must do so. These powers now have the judges to a greater extent than in the past. At the same time, I think it is important to note the tone of this debate. If one tries to give a picture that there is chaos and disorder in the courts, and this picture then turns out to be wrong, the only thing that one achieves is to frighten the public, so that eventually people may not dare to participate in legal proceedings. This is the picture Boriana Åberg is trying to give here. I'm saying it's basically fake. I can start with the disorder. We had 110 disturbances last year in Swedish courts, including in main proceedings. In 2019 we had 179, 2018 we had 142, 2017 we had 109. Again, look at the numbers! There is no increase in the number of disorder in the last four years. As I said, we had 110 disorder last year. Does Boriana Åberg know how many main proceedings the courts hold each year? That's 60,000 main negotiations. And so we had 110 disorder of order. It is almost surprising that there is no more happening in view of the crimes and targets that we can achieve in a year. So far disorder of order. If we look at other incidents, including violence in connection with trials, we had 5 cases in 2020. There has been no increase since 2017. By 2020 we had 20 cases of harassment. There is no increase since 2017. By 2020 we had 87 cases of threats. There is no increase since 2017, rather a decrease. What has increased is the number of seizures of various things that must not be allowed to enter the trials. But it is also linked to the fact that we have focused on alarm bars. Nowadays, about half of all courts have alarm frames. You can then more and more pick from people things that they are not allowed to bring in. We have also doubled the number of security guards, so that there is a greater possibility of keeping order if something is going on that should not happen. Nor does the black picture that Boriana Åberg tries to paint have any support if you ask the courts. TT put that question to the district courts. Then 72 percent of district courts said that the order is very good. That was their assessment. The rest, 28 percent, said the order was good. 100% of all the courts who answered said that the system is either very good or good. And 90 percent said that the order is at about the same level as before, that is, there has been no increase in the number of incidents. Madam President, I would like The picture given by Boriana Åberg is actually not correct. It is clear that individual examples of incidents and things that should not occur can always be referred to. But one should not paint a picture of this being widespread. There is then a risk that the public will believe in it, and that is in itself harmful. In fact, when, for populist reasons, attempts are being made to scare people and blow up this issue, both the judiciary and law enforcement are being harmed, as it is becoming more difficult to get people to help clear up crimes. Actually, I think the Moderates should stop doing that.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-141	Madam President, I would like I would urge the Minister not to shoot the messenger. It is not the one who calls the alarm about maladministration in Swedish courtrooms that frightens witnesses, but the criminals. It is the reality around us that is so evident with shootings every day, with gang killings and robbery of young people. Once these cases come to the courts, these criminals behave in a very reprehensible way. Here is the minister reading statistics on how the number of disorder has decreased. The Minister should contact the prosecutors' chambers or the correctional staff who serve in these courts. Not all of these people's experiences can be wrong. You can also get in touch with the members of the Council. They also have very strong views on how it works. The Minister says it's only a matter of individual cases. Well, that may be the case. It is positive that there are trials that are progressing as planned and that there is order in the sittings. That's how it's supposed to be. But all the deviant cases are very offensive. The Helsingborg case is not the only case. I can also refer to the case at Södertörn District Court where the defendants called police witnesses Nazis and shouted and shouted gender words without any consequences. Worse still, the President of the Court said that it was about young people who have been in detention for a long time and that it is quite obvious that they want to speak and say their opinion. Screaming, being vulgar and insulting in the courtroom is not part of freedom of expression. The fact that you have been detained does not imply any mitigating circumstances or the granting of any special rights. The Minister says he's following developments. Following developments is a very passive attitude that in no way improves the situation in the courtroom. For something to happen, active action is required. I propose that the Minister begin by looking back to see what has led to this development. It is total limitlessness and the lack of consequences. Why do defendants behave disrespectfully and roar gender words in negotiations? They do so because no one says otherwise, because there are no consequences and because they have learned throughout their childhood that no one says stop. It starts at school when you fight and mess around. But it is the teacher who gives up the blame and is considered to have done the wrong thing. Then you threaten social services, and nothing happens. And when you are a full-fledged criminal and behave disrespectfully towards the police, prosecutors and judges, nothing still happens because there is anxiety in Sweden not to offend anyone. It is an extremely dangerous development when the authorities, in this case represented by the Presidents of the Court of Justice, do not dare to use the laws that exist. Then Sweden is no longer a rule of law. Threatening witnesses during the trial should be punished considerably more severely. It is extremely difficult to get people to testify against criminals with a lot of violent capital.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-152	Madam President, I would like Yes, the latter part I agree with. We need to tighten up the penalties for legal abuse. As Boriana Åberg knows, we have a review that looks at criminal law on this particular issue. We will have a report on it a little later in the spring, and we will proceed to Parliament with such proposals. I think that's important. But it has not said that Boriana Åberg's black-painting of Swedish courts is correct. Rather, it is false, I say, and Boriana Åberg seems to be completely factually resistant. Here I report the incident reporting that exists, that is, what has actually been reported. According to it, the disorder in court has not increased. Violence has not increased. Harassment hasn't increased. The threats have been reduced. It is the reporting that Swedish courts do, and they do in the same way now as they have always done. Moreover, when you go out and ask the courts what their image is, as TT has done, you get the answer that the order is either very good or good. This seems Boriana Åberg does not want to take on board at all, but she continues with her rhetoric, which assumes that everything is disorder and chaos even though she has no evidence whatsoever of that image. The boardmen take Boriana Åberg up. How common is the harassment of referees? I would like to say that this is extremely unusual. We have, of course, taken information on that too. Between 2012 and 2020, nine full-years, there were 19 cases of threats, 7 cases of harassment and 0 cases of violence against RACs. Nine full-years, that is. Over those years, judges must have served in hundreds of thousands of trials, and we had 19 cases of threats. So it is extremely rare for this to happen. Last of all, there are no differences of opinion as to who should decide in the courtroom. It is the President of the Court, and that is exactly why we have given the President of the Court greater powers to steer things up and say to and also reject people who are not acting properly in the courtroom. We did so only a few years ago, when we further strengthened the position of the President of the Court. I believe, as I said, that if Boriana Åberg and the Moderates continue to push this issue in this way, then rather they are damaging justice and law enforcement. There may be people who actually believe what Boriana Åberg and the Moderates say, that is, there is great anxiety and chaos in the courts. Then they will hesitate to help clear up crimes. If you put that picture, you hurt the law enforcement. That's why I think the Moderates and Boriana Åberg do best to stop doing that.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-159	Madam President, I would like I hope the Minister does not believe that the fact that people in suburbs ruled by criminal clans do not dare to testify is because of my interpellation. The Minister knows how difficult it is to get people to testify against criminals who possess large amounts of violent capital. The fact that society is unable to protect witnesses is hardly a reason why I should not be able to question the order of the courtrooms when it falls. Does the Minister think the incidents I have listed are acceptable in a courtroom? Does he have an answer as to why the President has not acted? As far as sanctions are concerned for criminals who behave badly in the courtroom: they have nothing to lose. The maximum penalty they can receive today is $4,000 in fines – little deterrent for someone who has only black income and can double that amount of his criminal activities in a few hours. We Moderates have suggested that disorderly behavior could cause a month's imprisonment. How does the Minister feel about that? The disorder of order in the courtroom is a problem with many bottoms. It is about the protection of witnesses, about the working environment of those involved and ultimately about democracy – which is threatened when the person who has the most violent capital is allowed to dictate the rules and defy the law. There must be zero tolerance of disorder in Swedish courts. Those who behave reprehensibly and have no respect for the rule of law and its representatives must face tangible consequences.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-165	Madam President, I would like The consequences are felt," says Boriana Åberg and proposes a month's imprisonment. Does Boriana Åberg think these gang criminals care about that? That's hardly how we get to these people. We only do that by ensuring that there are strong opportunities for the President of the Court to intervene when these incidents occur – and that they do so too. That is exactly what we have strengthened by the new legislation that is now in place. It goes without saying that the President of the Court should always have both the powers and the opportunities that you need to be able to keep order in the courtroom. But I say that in the vast majority of cases there are no types of disorder. So we had 110 cases of this last year, and we had 60 000 main negotiations. I think that is something I say about the magnitude of this problem. When the problems arise, it is clear that one must intervene and do so forcefully. In fact, it is the duty of the President of the Court to do so and to create a secure environment so that everyone dares to testify and say what has happened. It's important to be able to clear up crimes. But Boriana Åberg has no evidence whatsoever, either in this debate or in her interpellation or anywhere else, that these problems have increased in recent years. I have given figures here that indicate that it is rather still or in some area has even decreased. When Boriana Åberg can show an increase, we may have a new discussion, but if she and the Moderates continue in this way, they will rather damage the chances of clearing up crimes because it scares the public unnecessarily.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-170	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to ensure that the country information and decisions of the Migration Board take into account the recurrent violations of fundamental human rights in China. First of all, I would like to make it clear that I must not intervene or influence the competent authorities in their handling of individual cases. So I cannot comment on the individual cases involved in the interpellation. On the other hand, I would like to point out that all persons seeking asylum in Sweden should be given a legally secure individual examination. It is the task of the Finnish Immigration Service, after such an examination in each individual case, to decide whether there is a risk of human rights violations or any other obstacle to expulsion decisions under the Aliens Act. The Finnish Immigration Service assesses the situation in the country in question and the individual reasons given by the asylum seeker. The Finnish Immigration Service has an extensive investigation obligation here. The Finnish Immigration Service therefore has access to many different sources of information concerning conditions in other countries. An important source is the Finnish Immigration Service's legal and land information system, Lifo, which has the task of providing the Migration Agency's administrators and decision-makers with country information that is relevant, up-to-date and reliable. These include analyses and country reports from foreign authorities and organisations working on human rights, as well as legislation and news reports relevant to the processing of asylum applications. The Finnish Immigration Service's function for land and environment analysis, which is responsible for collecting and analysing the country information, also publishes its own reports. D trekningsresor is also made to countries where events are particularly important to follow. Most of the contents of Lifo are available to the public via the Migration Agency's website. In the asylum process, the asylum seeker is also able to provide relevant country information, either to the Finnish Immigration Service or to the Migration Courts themselves or through his/her public representation. Since the judicial review of evidence is open to the courts, there are no restrictions on what may be invoked by the parties. It is therefore possible to rely on the country information which it considers relevant. In this context, I would also like to refer to my answer to a question by the interpeller on the same subject on 16 December 2020. I maintain the view expressed at the time – that a system of asylum procedures in Sweden has effective guarantees to ensure a legally secure process, including the principle of non-refoulement. I have full confidence in the assessment of the risks of a return by the Migration Agency and the courts and believe that it is not appropriate or appropriate for the Government to detail what country information is required in the processing of asylum applications. I do not, therefore, see the need for any initiative in this respect that is being requested, but I continue to follow closely the issue of legal certainty in the asylum process.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-177	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! I am pleased that the Minister stresses the importance of standing up for the fundamental principle of the right of asylum on non-refoulement, that is, that no one who is in danger of being imprisoned or persecuted for his political commitment in his home country should be expelled. However, I am not entirely satisfied with the answer in general. Sweden has a long tradition of standing up for human rights in the world, including the right to asylum. It is therefore with dismay and surprise that I note that Sweden is now threatening to expel people to China even though they are in danger of being imprisoned and persecuted. Sending one person back to a country where they are in danger of being executed, tortured or subjected to other serious violations of their human rights is contrary to both the UN Convention on Human Rights and the ECHR. China is a fierce dictatorship that systematically violates a wide range of fundamental human rights such as freedom of expression, association and religious freedom. The human rights situation in China has worsened further during President Xi Jinping. The abuses and violations of the Chinese regime affect all parts of Chinese society, but ethnic and religious minorities in China are particularly vulnerable. For example, thousands of Uighurs have been displaced to concentration camps like retraining camps and slave labour. Torture is used systematically. Less known is the growing repression in Inner Mongolia. Inner Mongolia is now becoming a new Tibet or a new Xinjiang. The Chinese regime's policy is to eradicate the Mongolian language and traditions. Those who protest are persecuted, harassed and imprisoned. According to Southern Mongolian Human Rights Information Center, between 8,000 and 10,000 Mongolians have been arrested by police only in August and September 2020. Very few of them have been publicly arrested. A person who escaped from Inner Mongolia ten years ago has recently received a decision on expulsion from Sweden. He will be deported with his family, including two children, to China. This is to happen despite the fact that in Sweden he has actively criticised the Chinese regime, something that Chinese law does not allow. Another example is a man who escaped from Inner Mongolia and obtained refugee status through UNHCR 2021 but who was then expelled from Sweden to China, where he was imprisoned. Another example is the two Uighur refugees who participated in peaceful protests outside the Chinese Embassy in Stockholm in 2012 and were then expelled. After returning to China, they disappeared immediately and have since not been heard from. These cases are concrete examples, among others, of how the system is failing. They can serve as a starting point for a more comprehensive discussion. Deporting someone at risk of imprisonment or being persecuted for his political commitment violates the fundamental principle of non-refoulement in the right of asylum. Thus, such expulsion should not be possible in Sweden. The only reasonable explanation I can take into account the Migration Board's decision is a lack of adequate country information on the situation in China and Inner Mongolia in particular. If that is the case, this must be corrected. No one who risks imprisonment or persecution shall be expelled from Sweden.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-188	Madam President, I would like There's Lotta Johnsson Fornarve and I agree. This is what asylum policy as a whole is all about – if you have a need for protection, you should also be protected. Sweden is one of the countries that has given the most people protection in relation to various international conflicts in the last ten years. I also claim that Sweden is one of the countries that has the most legally secure process of all. Then the question is who should decide on this. It is now almost 20 years since we in Sweden switched to the model that we have today to appeal to a court. Before that, the Migration Board was tested, and then the final examination was made by a politically appointed alien board. We changed the whole system 20 years ago and made sure that it is courts that ultimately decide on these appeals. At that time, the Left Party was a strong promoter of such an order. They said they wanted to get politics away from individual cases. It also wanted to get policy away from how individual countries should be judged; instead, it should be on the courts. I think there was a point in this. It is a reasonable order that it is courts that put practice in these for people often very intervening decisions. We changed this system. However, it also follows that the policy cannot review administrative or judicial decisions, i.e. how the courts view different situations in countries. The Left Party and Lotta Johnsson Fornarve cannot say in one breath that politics should be removed from these decisions and passed on to courts and then, in the next breath, attack the courts for their decisions and for how they view different countries. In that case, it does not go hand in hand; in that case, politics takes back the responsibility that it meant it should not have. The Migration Agency and the Migration Courts have access to a broad country information – more than ever before, I would say. In addition, we have a free trial of evidence so that the applicant can bring any information to the Migration Board and to the court and have it examined and examined. I say that basically, as I said, we have a legally secure process in Sweden – in fact, one of the most legally secure. It follows that I cannot interfere in individual matters and decisions, and I do not think that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve should do so either. Then I can see that the proportion of asylum seekers from China who are granted their asylum application seems to have increased in recent years. In 2018, there were 66 applicants from China, of which 12 were granted a residence permit. In 2019 there were 65 applicants, 22 of whom received a residence permit – about a third. In 2020 there were 56 applicants, of whom 24 – almost half – were granted a residence permit. Of course, we should not draw too far-reaching conclusions from this, because these are very small speeches, but that may indicate that the authorities and the courts now consider that the situation in China has become more serious. This may be one of the reasons why the rate of granting appears to be increasing. However, each case is assessed individually, and it is the individual need for protection that should be taken into account. It is also the applicant who has the burden of proof and who must show the court that it has a need for protection. The country information to which you refer can, as I said, with the free trial of evidence we have, be taken to court and have it examined.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-196	Madam President, I would like I do not want to change the order that Sweden has today with regard to the right of asylum, but it is clear that there are shortcomings in the handling of a number of cases and that the Migration Board has not received sufficient information on human rights in China, and in particular on Inner Mongolia. I also agree that each asylum case must of course be assessed on a case-by-case basis and that we should not discuss individual cases in this House, but we can discuss the overall principles and bases of the right of asylum. A clear example of the Migration Agency's lack of information about Inner Mongolia is shown in an article in Dagens Arena where the authority refers to Inner Mongolia as a self-governing province. This is completely misleading – self-government is only on paper. In fact, it is the Chinese regime that has total power and control. At the moment we are seeing the same developments in Inner Mongolia as in the Xinjiang region, where the treatment of the Uighurs is described as genocide by, among others, the United States. The policy of the Chinese regime is to completely assimilate the population and eradicate the Mongolian language and traditions. Those who protest are persecuted, harassed and imprisoned. The Finnish Immigration Service has updated its information on the situation in the Xinjiang region, resulting in Uighurs no longer being expelled. But a similar update on Inner Mongolia has obviously not taken place. It is the only reasonable explanation I look at the expulsion decisions to which I have referred. I believe that Sweden should use the precautionary principle in the case of expulsions. If there is the slightest risk that a person will be imprisoned, harassed and persecuted because of his political commitment, the person should not be expelled. Does the Minister not share this view? We have many examples of what can happen to those who openly dare to criticise the Chinese regime. The Swedish-Chinese book dealer Gui Minhai, imprisoned in China, is a clear example of this. There is no freedom of expression in China. The Chinese law has recently been revised and made the spread of rumours a crime with long prison sentences. It could all be a rumor. It is clear that the new legislation has been implemented to be used against political dissidents and to strengthen the party's control over information flows. Nor is there any doubt that the Chinese Embassy here in Stockholm has total control over what is said and written about China in Sweden, including the people with Chinese background who live here, are committed to human rights and criticise the Chinese regime. The Embassy also contacts Swedish journalists to comment on what they have written. Even politicians who speak critically receive threatening letters and emails from the Chinese Embassy in Stockholm. I'm one of them myself. Deporting a person who actively expresses himself critical of China in public contexts is very likely to put that person in prison – a view shared by a wide range of human rights organisations around the world linked to China. In an open letter, these organisations also describe how political prisoners have often been subjected to extra-hard and inhuman treatment with systematic mental and physical torture, while at the same time denying them basic medical treatment and fundamental rights. No one at risk of such treatment shall be expelled from Sweden.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-207	Madam President, I would like Once again, of course, we agree with the basic view that the person in need of protection should be protected. But the problem is sometimes to be able to make these assessments, and they should be made individually, that is, that each individual case must be considered separately. Today we have the order for the Migration Agency to take decisions, which can then be appealed to a migration court. If you also get a rejection there, you can in some cases appeal to a migration court. We established this scheme 20 years ago. It was one way of ensuring that politics would no longer decide this, but that the courts would do so. I think that is basically the right thing to do. Therefore, I do not want to go back to a regime in which it is the policy that should decide on this. But what I feel that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve with her questions father after is that we here in Parliament or the government should make decisions based on individual countries whether to stay or not. We are not doing this because we think it is best for the courts to deal with this. The person in need of protection should be protected. But it is the applicant who has the burden of proof, and that is the case in all asylum cases. In order to demonstrate the need for protection, we are applying what we call the free burden of proof, that is to say, we can refer to any information about the country in order to demonstrate the need for protection. There are no limits to this, but we can refer to various forms of information. In addition, in Sweden we have a good system of legal assistance for all asylum seekers. Overall, Sweden has a legally secure system, I would say. As far as China is concerned, I refer here only to the fact that the granting rate in recent years appears to have increased, from approximately 20% in 2018 to just over 30% in 2019 and to barely 50% in 2020. It may be a sign that the authorities and the courts are now looking at the situation in China in a different way, that it has become more serious. It is difficult to draw any far-reaching conclusions, because it may be that those who have come to Sweden in recent years have personal backgrounds that make them increasingly granted asylum. But it can still be an indication. I do not want to go back to the order in which politics decides on this sort of thing, but, after all, the courts must do so. One thing that the Left Party also once pushed very hard was that we should have a court case here. Then one cannot say this in one breath and, in the next breath, criticise the Migration Board and the courts for the decisions they make, but then one must respect the limits of politics in the individual cases. Again, I can see what the situation is right now. I see no reason why we should change any legislation in this regard because of this.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-215	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for this debate. Of course, I agree that it is the courts that should decide on the right of asylum. The Minister also says that anyone who needs protection should be protected. It is against this background that I am upset and surprised that there are apparently shortcomings in the Migration Agency's handling of the cases from Inner Mongolia, because it is clear that the Migration Agency has not received enough good land information. Nevertheless, this is something that we must be able to discuss and ensure that the Authority receives sufficient basic country information on human rights in China and Inner Mongolia in particular. Sending a person back to a country where they are in danger of being executed, tortured or subjected to serious violations of their human rights is, of course, contrary to the UN Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights and the fundamental principles of the right of asylum. I believe that Sweden should use the precautionary principle in the case of expulsions. I also believe that the government can be clearer here, because if there is the slightest chance that a person will be imprisoned, harassed or persecuted because of his political commitment, the person should not be expelled. I hope that the shortcomings I can see in the Migration Agency regarding information on China and Inner Mongolia in particular will be rectified. It is absolutely essential if we are serious about standing up for human rights and guaranteeing a legally secure asylum process.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-220	Madam President, I would like I don't think I can see yet that there is evidence that there are shortcomings in the management of the Migration Agency. Of course, it can sometimes be very difficult to make these assessments. However, if you are dissatisfied with the country information that the Migration Board has, it is free to refer to your own information and have it reviewed and assessed. In addition, if you receive a refusal from the Finnish Immigration Service, you can appeal the decision to the court. The cases which Lotta Johnsson Fornarve claims are flawed, I suppose, have been appealed and the court has confirmed the rejection. Then, in some cases, one more step can be taken, to the Migration Court of Appeal. I think I maintain that the order we have with courts, with legal aid and with free trial of evidence is basically legal. I would say that it is one of the most legally secure systems in the world. Does that mean that there is no error? No, of course it's never guaranteed. But you should ensure that you have as much information as you need to have in order to make assessments in the individual case. This applies to both the Migration Agency and the courts. Again, anyone who needs protection should be protected. It is important that we always have that starting point. Thank you for this debate. As I said, of course, I continue to follow these matters very closely.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-226	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me whether I and the government have ongoing work to map the consequences of the pandemic when it comes to, for example, teaching time and how students' knowledge development is affected, whether the government intends to withdraw the announcement that the national tests will not be conducted during spring semester 2021, and what concrete initiatives I and the government have taken to provide operational support to the principals to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic on school activities. School is crucial to the future of students. We know that school is important for children's and pupils' learning, safety and health. The government is therefore continuously working to support schools during the pandemic and to identify how the pandemic has affected education. The Government has commissioned the Swedish National Board of Education to carry out supporting actions in connection with the covid-19 pandemic and to monitor its consequences and evaluate the measures taken. The mission includes developing specific support to facilitate parts of the training that are particularly difficult to implement during the pandemic. The State's school inspection shall examine the distance and distance education conducted and examine the consequences that such teaching has for pupils' ability to achieve the goals and their health. I have continuous dialogues with the relevant authorities, principal organisations, trade unions and student organisations on the consequences of the pandemic. In addition, in the past week I have held meetings with principals, principals, teachers, study and career counselors and student health staff from different school forms. On these occasions, it discussed, among other things, what problems the pandemic may have posed for pupils' ability to reach the targets and how any gaps in knowledge should be identified and taken back. As far as the national tests are concerned, I would like to point out that it is the Swedish National Agency for Education that decides whether or not the tests should be carried out. The decision of the National Agency for Education to cancel the national tests is not desirable but necessary. The Swedish National Agency for Education considers that due to high absenteeism and disease protection aspects there are not sufficient conditions to carry out the tests in such a way that the purpose of the tests is achieved. It is a difficult balance to decide to set up important opportunities for assessing students' knowledge development. At the same time, it is unrealistic to require teachers and students to carry out the tests as usual at a time when virtually nothing else is normal. The focus must be on teaching. The Swedish National Agency for Education has ensured that schools have access to rating-supporting assessment support that teachers can use without having to feel pressured by the fact that the tests have to be done at a certain date. I have not received any indication that the Swedish National Agency for Education intends to change its decision. Education is crucial for the future of students. That is why I will continue to monitor closely the consequences of the pandemic and its impact on students' knowledge development. Swedish students have not had the same good conditions for their learning during this time. But they will not be left alone to deal with that burden. We must ensure that their acquisition of knowledge is caught up.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-235	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education Anna Ekström for her answer to my and Liberal interpellation. There has been a discussion for almost a year on the effects of the pandemic. The pandemic has affected society as a whole, but we believe that it has particularly affected children and young people. Not a day goes by without hearing about the consequences of the absence or about the impact on social and mental health, as more and more young people are expressing with a large part of upper secondary education, for example, being conducted at a distance. And if you go lower in the age group and move to distance education in high school, for example, it will of course affect the quality of teaching and the knowledge these students are entitled to. I've asked you three questions. On the one hand, I wonder whether the government has ongoing work to map the consequences of the pandemic in terms of specific knowledge development and teaching time. On the one hand, it is about the national tests, and I note that the Government refers to the National Agency for Education. But my question is addressed to the government: is the government prepared to overturn the decision? There is a general discussion about a step of knowledge, but do the Government and the Government know what this step of knowledge looks like, so that we know what we are talking about and not just engaging in public opinion and speculation? It is important to know this in order to be able to plan actions, whether these are political or economic initiatives. As far as my question of operational support for the principals is concerned, I have received clear answers. This is done through concrete meetings, dialogue, support and evaluations. Madam President, I would like The school is the most important educational institution in our society, and we are keen that all students, even during the pandemic, receive the education they are entitled to. All political parties in the Riksdag have said that school education should continue – at a distance if a school closes down. You have to be careful what you take away to make it easier for teachers and principals. There is a big difference between the administrative burden and the national tests. The latter are an important instrument and one of few tools at national level to monitor the development of knowledge, assess equivalence and, not least, prevent and prevent grade inflation in schools. If we look at the results reported by the Swedish National Agency for Education this summer regarding last spring's comprehensive school grades, we see that the grades were not negatively affected but continued to go up, albeit marginally. At the same time, there is talk of a knowledge gap. It will then be particularly important to turn to the government and ask how concrete steps have been taken to assess this knowledge gap.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-244	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by regretting that there will not be national examinations in Swedish schools this spring. The reason I regret this is that I think the national tests are good. They are excellent instruments for evaluating students' knowledge in relation to the requirements required to achieve certain grades. In fact, the main purpose of the national tests is to support teachers' rating, and that is an important aim. What Roger Haddad is interested in in this interpellation debate, however, is something else, namely the important thing in monitoring students' knowledge development over time. But that is not the way the national tests are designed. I hope, however, that with increased digitisation of the national tests we can reach a situation where we can also use the national tests in the future to monitor the development of knowledge over time. That would be very good. So far, however, the national tests have not had that purpose, and this has been the case for quite a number of years in Swedish schools. An important way to measure students' knowledge development over time is our international surveys. But here again, the pandemic is causing it. The Pisa survey, which is so important to our view of how the Swedish students perform over time, is very much affected by the pandemic that goes all over our world. I can tell Roger Haddad that, as in previous years and probably next year, I find it difficult at the beginning of February to say whether Swedish students will have learned as much this year as they did last year. The Swedish school does not measure results in this way. The grades are related to knowledge requirements, and the grades are set by the teachers. For teachers, national tests are a good and important support, but that is not the only support. At least when it comes to grade 9, what the grades describe is a greater time span than just the time during which the pandemic has ravaged our country and affected our school. Madam President, I would like I regret that the situation is such that it is difficult to give national tests this year. I wish we could have done that. However, given that the national tests have the role of supporting grades, I understand the Swedish National Agency for Education's decision to cancel them. I believe that this is necessary but regrettable. The reason is that it is difficult to imagine that all Swedish students in the same grade at the same time will sit in writing rooms and write the same exam. I find it very difficult to see how the tests could be carried out in the legal way we want and how we could avoid cheating, for example. May I also add, Madam President, that thanks to the Institute for Labour and Education Policy Evaluation, we have received an incredibly important report, which came very recently and which takes a look at the long-term impact of the coronapandemine on school. It is a report that will provide us with very good information on how to act in the future.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-253	Madam President, I would like If you do not carry out the international Pisa measurements, it is a major concern, but it gets even worse when you cancel the national tests and also say that there is a risk that we do not really know what the knowledge development looks like and that we also risk increased grade inflation. That's the connection we make in the Liberals. National tests are one of several instruments for assessing deviations between the grade results and the national test results and trying to get a picture of developments in the country. I certainly think it is relevant. It is not better that the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Government announced at a joint press conference in December that the assessment support in grade 1 is also removed, which I find remarkable because it is an important part of assessing early in primary and primary school what types of efforts a student needs to achieve the goals. I maintain my criticism. It is wrong that the national tests have been cancelled. I do not think that you should simply refer to the National Agency for Education, but the government can of course make its own position and point it out to its school authorities. That's what you do in other contexts. In addition, it was the government that announced it before the Director General at the same press conference, although the Swedish National Agency for Education has formally taken the decision. I certainly do not believe that the Swedish National Agency for Education is making such an interventional decision without receiving the client's blessing. I asked in the interpellation whether there has been some kind of mapping to assess what has been lost during the pandemic, and I get the impression that the government does not really know what the problem of the so-called knowledge gap is. We had the Director-General of the National Agency for Education with us today on another matter, and he touched on this indirectly. He said you don't know. The state and the Swedish National Agency for Education have no national picture of what the development of knowledge and the so-called knowledge phase look like. I think that is extremely serious. That is why I maintain the request to the government where I ask whether it intends to initiate such work, in the absence of international measurements and in the absence of national tests. We saw in May when the teachers' unions presented their surveys that three out of four teachers made the assessment that the pandemic has a negative impact on school development and that there is a risk of a knowledge gap. There is therefore every reason to continue to monitor this issue. I have read the assignment to the School Inspectorate, who asked 247 principals last autumn. Even in the recommendations of the School Inspectorate, Madam President, I can read that it is important to continue working to find ways to follow up on the impact of absenteeism on school work and on students' knowledge development. The need to follow up students' knowledge development is thus confirmed. It sounds simple, but it's extremely difficult. And it'll be even harder if we don't get to grips with it now.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-258	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with Roger Haddad that this is complicated, but it is also very important. Despite the fact that we have a pandemic that causes a lot of misery to many people in our country and that also affects the school, students and school staff very much, the starting point is that those students who go to school this year should have as good life chances as their big sisters and, eventually, their younger sisters. It is also important, Madam President, to bear in mind that for those students who attend, for example, upper secondary school vocational programmes, it is absolutely necessary to bring with them the professional skills that are formulated in the various governance documents that exist. At least I wouldn't feel very safe if an entire generation of plumbers were not given the same training in how to handle pipelines as other generations. Many of the knowledge we receive from school are such knowledge that we need for life to come. This, Madam President, leads me to remind you that it will be important in the future to ensure that, in so far as knowledge gaps have arisen, we must have an education system that gives a second and another chance and that the pupils who come out of school and need to supplement in different ways have good opportunities to do so. The government's investment in the Knowledgelift will of course be very well suited here, with the right to the compux that exists in terms of competence-giving subjects and with the large expansion of the compux that has taken place and that will certainly be very important in the future, not only for those students who are in high school and comprehensive school today and who can have knowledge gaps that have to be clogged but also for the large groups that graduate high school to an incredibly tough labour market. I would think that for the average high school elite, the concern about what to do after high school is at least as great as the concern about learning everything you need in school. Madam President, I would like All of this must be taken very seriously. The most important thing we can do today is to ensure that the Swedish National Agency for Education has a mission to follow the development and make suggestions for supporting actions and make sure to read the reports made by IFAU, for example, and take note of the European experiences that we have and that are very similar to our Swedish experiences, namely that this far there has been the greatest problem for those students who need the school most and that equivalence has been dramatically affected by the pandemic that prevails in all our European countries. Then, of course, it becomes important to do what we can to relieve the school, as Roger Haddad said, of everything that has nothing to do with teaching. Today, the government has decided to postpone the implementation of the curricula that we – me and Roger Haddad – have jointly developed within the framework of the January Agreement. I have to say that it was sad to be present with the news that the national exams are cancelled, but it feels even more in my heart to postpone the implementation of the syllabuses. They are better than those we have today, they are developed with the strong support of teachers and they are long awaited by many teachers. At the same time, however, the signals from the school world are so clear that, in order to minimize and avoid a knowledge gap, we must ensure that the school has the chance to invest in the core tasks. Therefore, it is with sadness in my heart that I can announce that we are delaying the implementation of the long-awaited syllabuses, to give work confidence to focus on teaching in Swedish school and thus ensure that students can avoid the knowledge gap.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-265	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister for Education Anna Ekström if she is prepared to give the Swedish National Agency for Education a mission to identify what is lost during the pandemic in order to get a better grip on the knowledge gap. It is not enough for us to use that concept; we need to find out what it actually looks like. Then it is not enough to call 200 municipalities or sit down and talk to the union and student councils, but the Swedish government and the Swedish National Board of Education must have a better grasp of what the knowledge gap really looks like. It becomes even more serious when the government cancels the national tests, although it is the Swedish National Agency for Education that has made the decision. I say again: I do not support this decision. Of course, the government can revoke or take a different decision and give another assignment to its school authority. There is a risk that students will not get the knowledge to which they are entitled. Steps are cancelled, and teaching is affected. But the grades continue to rise. You don't have to be a grade expert to start questioning or perhaps be a little skeptical about the development, if it continues. Then it is particularly important that we have instruments, such as national tests. The argument that teachers have more time has been dismissed by several teachers, for they are at least busy doing alternative tests. And yet they should judge and grade their students eventually. From that perspective, I do not believe in this motive. We have plenty of conference facilities and empty university premises that could be used today if we decide to conduct a national test.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-269	Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, principals, teachers and other staff in Sweden's schools have done a great deal of work. It has been ensured that the Swedish school could be there for the students. To a large extent, education, especially in upper secondary school but also partly in other forms of school, has been allowed to take place at a distance. I am pleased that we have been able to provide the conditions for schools to ensure that as much education as possible can be given as local education. I am also pleased that we have been able to find a place where we in upper secondary school can mix remote and close teaching. For the students it is better to be inside the schools sometimes than to spend all the time at home. The major efforts made by Sweden's teachers and other staff are more than matched by the major efforts that Sweden's students have made in the pandemic we live in. Sweden's students have stood up in a very admirable way. I want all employers who in the future read a CV from a student who has attended a Swedish school during the pandemic to also see what is behind the grades: the great responsibility that the students have put up with and the amazing way in which the students have taken responsibility not only for themselves and their studies but also for our entire country. Students have taken their role as adults in the pandemic in a way that arouses admiration.
i-ELbCTF3ZDisoJdRtjo45xa	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister for Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-271	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Justice and Migration. In December, Morgan Johansson told Sydsvenskan that he wanted to tear up the system of labour immigration and reintroduce rules where Sweden only allows the immigration of qualified labour, as engineers and doctors, after a test of whether there is a need in the country. We have just received a partial report from a report on labour immigration. No proposals there will lead to what the Minister for Migration wants. Now we have made it very easy for the Minister for Migration. We are going to put forward a series of proposals to resolve this very issue, while at the same time putting forward proposals to stop fraud and crime linked to labour immigration. It will then be easy for the Social Democrats to pursue the policy they pursue on the debate pages. Will they vote in favour of the Moderates' proposal?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-275	Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the Moderates have finally awakened on this issue. It was the Moderates who once ten years ago pushed through the world's most liberal rules on labour migration. I believe that Sweden is the only country in the world that has labour immigration also in occupations where there is no shortage. It was a purely ordering work from the employer side. This has led to so much cheating, fiffles, human exploitation and problems in the labour market. This protected the Moderates all these years and did not care. I think we Social Democrats were almost the only ones who talked about this. Now the Moderates are joining this, and I think that is a good thing. I think we should adopt the proposals we received on Tuesday. It is the first part of a tightening of the system that we will go to Parliament with as soon as possible. This applies, among other things, to supply requirements for labour immigrants but also to increased control opportunities. Then we await the final report, which will come in November to look at further proposals. There I hope the Moderates will back them up too.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-279	Madam President, I would like The proposals made on Tuesday do not raise salary requirements. It will be enough 13 000 SEK in salary to get here. It is not a stop to labour migration to personal assistance, which is exploited by criminals, and no stop to a switch of tracks, which is clearly associated with an abuse of our asylum system. Nor will there be any such proposals in November in view of the way in which the directives are designed. That is why we are making it very easy for the Social Democrats. Just vote in favour of the Moderates' proposal. Will you do that?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-281	Madam President, I would like The Moderates tend to slip here and there in the debate. One day they think one thing, the other day they may think otherwise. We will have to see that employers' organisations have put their weight in the Moderates if they still stand by their proposals. It depends a little bit on the day-form of the policy that the Moderates have in practice. We will continue our policy. It is about tightening up the rules in such a way that we can get at cheating, faffel and human exploitation so that we can finally do something about the miserable system that the Moderates introduced ten years ago.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-283	Frau President! The gang criminality that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has declared himself to crush every year at his six years in power has, in fact, become worse every year. A serious consequence of this is that younger and younger people are increasingly involved in gang crime. It is not uncommon for young teenagers to have become heavily criminalized. As a result, we have seen major shortcomings in the closed youth care system with escapes and escapes again and again. On Tuesday, an announcement was voted on in the Committee on Justice where the Center Party, Liberals, Christian Democrats and the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats, want to see an additional directive for the announced inquiry into closed youth care. We want the investigation to aim for the Prison Service with greater competence to handle heavy criminals to take over responsibility for closed youth care. We also want it to be clear that punishment has been announced for these types of criminals. My question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson is whether the government intends to respond to the announcement on those points.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-286	Madam President, I would like I'd like to see what the announcement will be. As far as I understand it, it's not adjusted or decided yet. We have just announced an investigation that will review the forms of LSU, the law on closed juvenile care. It is about strengthening quality and security. It is also a question of reviewing the treatment periods, which we do not think have been associated with in order to deal with the type of crime we are now talking about. Then we will see what Parliament will say on these issues. We are keen to have a good dialogue with the Riksdag in this. In general, I would like to say that it should be remembered that there is probably no government that has done more to gang crime than we have done. There's been a big expansion on the police side. There's more cops than ever before. It is harsher punishment than before in modern times. It is better for the police to be able to follow and clear up these crimes. It is only a matter of ensuring that these efforts continue on a point-by-point basis and simply cage one by one of the most crime-active individuals.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-290	Frau President! A more honest comparison than comparing oneself to oneself year after year is to compare with the opposition that has existed while the government has been in power. In this respect, we note that the government has always invested the least money in all areas of expenditure in the judiciary and has had the lowest penalties in the proposals when we have debated them in this House. My specific question was about the announcement made by the Committee on Justice on Tuesday, on which a very broad parliamentary majority is behind the proposal to give the Prison Service responsibility for closed youth care. Is the government going to take care of that announcement?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-292	Madam President, I would like Let's see what that announcement gets like. We are keen to have a good dialogue with Parliament on this. Again, there is no government that has done more than we have done. We will continue to deploy resources and provide police and prosecutors with the tools they need to access gang crime. It's not just about making sure that we put those who commit the many crimes. It is not least important to try to break the new recruits to the criminal gangs.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-294	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is about the government's work to strengthen Nordic cooperation on border barriers issues in the pandemic era. Of course, I understand and acknowledge the needs, right and duty of each country to protect its citizens in order to prevent the spread of infection. At the same time, cooperation at government level between Sweden and our immediate neighbours has been characterised by fragmented and unprepared action without coordination. Governments have not come together and coordinated; on the contrary, unilateral draconian and drastic decisions have opened and closed their borders hip as happy. This has damaged thousands of border commuters in the Öresund region, in my home district Tornedalen and along the Swedish-Norwegian border. It has also damaged Åland and most recently Bornholm. What dialogue has the government had with its Norwegian, Danish and Finnish government colleagues who have preceded the recent Swedish entry restrictions?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-298	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. When it comes to the Nordic relationship during the pandemic, you can say that there are two different parts. It has been a very close relationship at central level where ministers have held meetings every week for long periods, which has led, among other things, to a joint Nordic action to bring home 9 000 Swedes with 400 flights. This would not have been possible without excellent Nordic cooperation. On the other hand, we have had major problems in border areas that have hit people very, very hard. There has always been a close dialogue between the various ministers, foreign ministers, Nordic and internal ministers, but we have chosen very different ways of dealing with the pandemic. I believe that this can have major consequences in the regions that have been affected, and we must jointly try to do something about that.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-302	Madam President, I would like The Nordic co-operation ministers announced in September that they would learn from the experiences of the pandemic by just increasing the proactive exchange of information between governments. Despite this, people have been in bad shape. People have even been subjected to inhumane and unworthy treatment. Deadly people have not received visits from their relatives because they have happened to live on the wrong side of Sundet. People have been denied or interrupted their schooling in Norway because they live on the wrong side of the border.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-305	Madam President, I would like One of the things that I think are the most important is that Linda Modig and others who have their own experience of how hard this has hit the border areas testifies to that. Among other things, our Minister for the Nordic Region and Prime Minister have had meetings with people living in border areas and received direct information about how hard this has hit. We from the Swedish side have also proposed that a much closer cooperation, and systematic cooperation, be established before making decisions. I hope this can happen.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-307	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth. The taxi industry has been hit almost as hard as air travel by the Corona crisis and has lost 80 percent of its turnover. Taxi is an industry with small margins and high over-establishment in the big cities. The aid — except for the special aid to the aviation sector — is designed for entirely other activities such as industry and other production with high fixed costs and higher margins, which the taxi industry does not have. In addition, the checks on the support for taxis work very badly, which gives a lot of room for cheating. We are very concerned that the serious and honest companies will be knocked out in favour of the rogue and dishonest.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-310	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Thunander, for an important question! Like large sections of the transport industry in passenger transport, the taxi industry has been hit very hard during the pandemic both as a result of the restrictions that we have jointly decided here and as a result of people following the guidelines that exist to reduce travel in order to limit the spread of infection. It is also one of the reasons why we have made extensive financial efforts, both in general in health pay and in deferred taxes and, not least, in business support that the taxi industry has been able to take part in. I believe that over 5 000 taxi companies have been able to take part in and apply for the business support that is now in place. It is our way of finding opportunities for the serious part of the taxi industry to cope with the crisis of the pandemic. But I certainly do not exclude that we may have to come back with more effort – essentially general, because it is very difficult to find specific actions. But, of course, I am not ruling this out, as I said.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tomas Eneroth, for that answer! I am pleased that you do not rule out finding ways to help the taxi industry. I repeat that, according to the taxi industry itself, aid often does not work optimally for taxis, because the industry does not function such as physical production or industrial production, for example. Serious activity is indeed at risk of extinction, and rogues remain. I wonder: when could such a proposal for support come?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-316	Madam President, I would like I believe that the important thing is to ensure that we really design aid in a way that enables serious road hauliers and serious ones in the industry to receive support, but also the resources and conditions to develop. We have had a development in the industry where there has been a lot of unserious activity, and where we from the government have now gone in with both taxameter requirements and a completely different regulation to get a healthier development in the taxi industry. I welcome all the proposals that contribute to this.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-319	Madam President, I would like Democracy is under threat in many places in the world. This is particularly true of the inhabitants of Taiwan, because China is increasing the pressure. The rhetoric has been greatly sharpened, the military threat is increasing and Chinese power demonstrations are increasingly taking place. Taiwan is a full democracy with free elections, freedom of the press and a strong rule of law. Soon two years ago, Taiwan became the first in Asia to allow sex - neutral marriages. In the Foreign Declaration, the government has said that support for open society, freedom of the press and the work for LGBT people's rights will be strengthened.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-323	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hampus Hagman, for the question! It is very regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's freedom of movement. The government's starting point is that we are working for the widest possible and comprehensive participation in international cooperation for Taiwan. Both Sweden and the EU have an interest in Taiwan's participation, which is why we have supported Taiwan's participation, for example, in the work of the World Health Organisation in connection with the pandemic. Sweden has a one-China policy, and that means that we cannot fully recognise Taiwan. But we are working to ensure that Taiwan participates as much as possible in all international contexts. I can also inform you that Minister of Research Matilda Ernkrans received his counterpart from Taiwan last year.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-327	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Matilda Ernkrans received her counterpart. It is important that Sweden stands up for democracy. Today we are represented through Business Sweden in Taipei, and several European countries have similar solutions. But more and more people are also changing the name of their offices to strengthen relationships. Britain, for example, now calls its office there British Office. This marks support for democracy. I wonder if Sweden is prepared to change its name accordingly.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-330	Madam President, I would like As it is today with the Business Sweden office, it works very well. I think there is an advantage in that we have the same name around the world at Business Sweden's offices and those who work there. The name is well known, not least among those companies that appreciate and use Business Sweden also in Taiwan. I believe that the order we have now is working well, and there is nothing against our supporting Taiwan's participation.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-332	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eneroth. The whole society is changing to meet the climate goals. Transport accounts for one third of emissions, and passenger transport accounts for most of the time. Electrification is what the Liberals think is the answer when it comes to meeting emissions. Last year, rechargeable cars accounted for 30% of all new car sales. The companies account for 75 per cent of new car sales and thus account for most of the cost of the rechargeable cars in the conversion. Now a proposal for a change in the value of benefits has been out for consultation, and the referee shows that it is strongly opposed to the changes from an environmental point of view. My question to the Government is: How does the Government view the benefit value from an environmental point of view?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-336	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Gellerman for a very important question. We are facing a challenge in which the transport sector, which accounts for a large part of emissions, has a rather tough journey to do with reducing emissions, both through biofuels – the reduction obligation – and through electrification. We are now speeding up electrification quickly, not least thanks to the Electrification Commission's work. It is also a question of increasing transport efficiency. Sweden is the country within the EU that has the largest share of charging hybrids and electric cars in new car sales. So we're in good shape. But it is true that we also need to find taxes and instruments that contribute to the transition in the long term. With regard to what has been on the table for a referral, work is now under way in the Government Office to prepare the proposals to come back. I believe that the history so far shows that we have been successful in both stimulating the sale of charging hybrids and electric cars and at the same time accelerating the development of not least charging infrastructure so that we can become the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you a question about synthesis. A year ago, in this House, there was an announcement to the government that drivers who fail the visual test should be able to drive in simulators or on real roads in order to regain their licence. My question is: when can we see the result of that announcement? It's been a year now. When can these people get a second chance to keep their driving licence?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-341	This was not a supplementary question to the first question, but a new question.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-342	Madam President, I would like This is also a very important position. Of course, there is every reason in the world to develop the technology in terms of synthesis. There is now an investigation work going on with our authorities in order for us to be able to return with a good preparation basis. I think it is extremely important, not least now during the pandemic, that we ensure that the synthesis and field of vision tests carried out can rest on a scientific basis. We are speeding up this work, because it is urgent.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-343	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. During its reign, the then alliance government introduced the most generous policy in the world for labour immigration, a policy that means that the state does not care at all who comes to Sweden to work. It is therefore up to individual employers to decide who can come here, regardless of whether the Swedish labour market really needs that competence. This risks leading to both wage dumping and exploitation of people. That is precisely why the government has set up an investigation which has submitted an interim report earlier this week in this particular area. What does the Minister of Migration say about the proposals delivered on Tuesday?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-346	Madam President, I would like First of all, I am glad that there are at last more than just us Social Democrats who talk about the cheating and faffel and the human exploitation that have come into the wake of the ultra-liberal labour immigration rules that the Moderates pushed through ten years ago. It is important to have the starting point that Swedish salaries should apply in Sweden for everyone. We cannot accept that people are being exploited by rogue employers in the way that has happened. This is also a class issue, a very clear one. It's one thing if you come here as an engineer or a doctor. Then you have a much stronger position. If you come here as a cleaner or a dishwasher, you run a much greater risk of being exploited in the way that we also see happening. Let's tighten up these rules. I received some suggestions on Tuesday, and we will proceed with them. These include supply requirements and increased controls. There will then be additional rules in November. I see it as one of the most important issues this parliamentary term to reform this system, which has worked so badly.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-351	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. As the Minister mentions, several parties have made position changes and have approached us social democrats in this area. I wonder if the Minister has any further comments on that. It is very welcome if we can bring about a change here. As the Minister mentions, very many people are being exploited in the Swedish labour market today because of these rules.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-354	Madam President, I would like It was probably no coincidence that there were some positions movements, because it was above all after there was finally a report from the law enforcement authorities – the police, the prosecutors and the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency – and also the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Migration Agency and other authorities working against organised crime. When they said that there were strong links between labour immigration rules and organised crime, a few more parties woke up, and we got the political pressure that we now have and that we can work on to finally tighten up these rules. It's about time.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-355	Madam President, I would like For a long time, the threat of an almost completely removed abortion right has been over Polish women. Despite massive protests last autumn, as now, that threat will come true. The fact that human rights are also women's rights does not seem to agree with the Polish Government. It's a policy that kills women. Instead, when the possibility of legal abortion is banned, desperate women resort to other means. Many are those who have lost their lives through their own attempts with various devices or by going to other, rogue actors who offer a solution. The fact that this is happening in Europe today, in a country very close to us, is, of course, totally unacceptable. Therefore, I would like to ask Ann Linde: What can Sweden do to change Poland's government, and what does Sweden intend to do in the future?
i-6qzPg3M8wqFaihzWJASgUB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for the question! This is, of course, a terrible decision which has unfortunately been taken and which makes it virtually impossible to have safe and legal abortions in Poland. Abortion does not disappear because there is a ban, but it is the safe abortions that disappear. Human rights, especially women's and girls' rights including sexual and reproductive health, are priority issues in our bilateral relationship with Poland. I myself personally raised this particular issue with my various colleagues in foreign affairs. It has been this way for a long time and become worse over the years. We also work in general with others within the EU and within the She Decides movement to try to influence Poland to change these decisions.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-360	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for that answer. It is extremely important that we do everything we can to bring about change, of course in a legal direction. Does the Minister see that there is something that we in Sweden, through the European Union or ourselves, could do to help Polish women directly in the situation that is now going to prevail for a while?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-362	Madam President, I would like Polish women have the opportunity to have an abortion in Sweden, for example. Previously, we had a requirement to be a Swedish citizen in order to have an abortion in Sweden. It has now been removed. At the same time, it is the regions of the home country that are to pay, or the payment is made via insurance solutions and so on. If it doesn't cover the costs or if the government doesn't want to pay, the woman will have to do it herself. But the possibility exists. The situation in Russia and Sweden's cooperation with the Baltic countries
i-efedf8c9730dab99-365	Madam President, I would like What happens in Russia upsets a whole world. It upsets the Russian people in particular. When Aleksej Navalnyj was sentenced to 3 1⁄2 years in prison – just in time for him not to be able to stand in the next presidential election – people went out into the streets and squares. The Foreign Minister of Lithuania has said that this disaster, as we see, will need to be examined carefully for many lengths together, but above all through the international bodies, such as the OSSE. Many times the Baltics are very quick to act – faster than the Nordic countries. I would like to ask Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde: what has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done and what resources are allocated to coordinate activities with the Baltic countries and like-minded people? And what OSCE mechanisms does the Minister for Foreign Affairs intend to activate in his role as President?
i-H1JDbngVKALZmWMp54KzwJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for the question. I had the opportunity to see the demonstrations on the ground, with my own eyes, and not least the incredibly sharp police efforts that were made. I came home from Moscow yesterday. I raised the issue of Navalnyj there and called for his release and for everyone arrested during the demonstrations over the last three weeks to be released as well. As Mr Rothenberg understands, it was not easy to have a face-to-face discussion with the Russian Foreign Minister. But, of course, we are not backing away from this for a second and acting directly both within the EU and within the OSSE. At the next meeting, we will continue to discuss what is now to be continued EU reactions. There are already sanctions for the poisoning of Navalnyj.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-371	Frau President! My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. In December 2020 Swedish Radio alerted that 395 million SEK in student loans paid to now grown men from Afghanistan risk never being repaid. For this reason, I put a written question to the Government about how she intends to act to ensure that these loans are repaid. The answer was that repayment of loans from abroad has generally increased and that the Government is monitoring the issue. CSN collects debts abroad via phone calls, e-mails and letters. If the answer is not received, the debt must be recovered by means of a court of law. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, it is not only very costly but in practice impossible, according to the authority itself. In addition, Afghanistan is at the heart of countries where students voluntarily repay their student loans. No reports indicate that repayments from this region are increasing. My question to the Government is therefore still how she intends to act to ensure that these loans are repaid to Sweden and the Swedish people.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-375	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that upper secondary education really increases the opportunity for jobs and self-support. I myself am very much the child of Swedish education policy. Without generous means of study, without the development of upper secondary education, without the development of higher education throughout the country, it would not have been possible for me to carry out the training that I have been able to carry out. This is something that is very basic. People need to be able to educate themselves throughout their lives and throughout the country. This is something that we stand for very strong. But, of course, if we are to have these generous training places and the student aid system, we must also pay back our student loans. Therefore CSN has the task of recovering the debts that people have if they do not pay their student loans. We have also given increased funds to CSN to increase the recovery rate. It has shown results. Of course, this is a job that we continue to follow closely because of the fact that people are able to educate themselves throughout their lives.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-378	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth. A few hours ago, the government announced once again that it would extend the alcohol ban. This hits the restaurant and restaurant industry around Sweden hard. It is an already heavily exposed industry that is waiting for the money it should have received long ago. My question then is: why is the government using the legislation that was in place to regulate alcohol consumption to regulate the spread of infection? We now have another type of legislation in place that could be fairer. The restaurant that serves fast food can be open around the clock while these restaurants and restaurants have to close at 8.30 p.m. My question to the Government is: where is justice, and why can the government not use the legislation that is now in place to regulate precisely the spread of infection and not the consumption of alcohol?
i-JSjvoJXDaZbM8apiVucfWK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! Let us remember what is the main purpose of the regulations we are now doing. It's limiting the spread of infection. This is also done in a situation when we see an increase in the spread of infection, not least in neighbouring countries, but we also see a risk in Sweden with the mutated virus that is now spreading. Then it is important to reduce the social contact areas. Alcohol sales after 20:00 I think everyone realizes actually contributes to that more people might become somewhat more careless, meet in more contexts and contribute to a potentially increased risk of infection. That is why we must use all the tools available, whether it be pandemic law or alcohol law or other appropriate means, to see what is most effective in terms of limiting the spread of infection. We are, of course, prepared to try out various possibilities, but at this stage the most important thing is to ensure that we use the tools that Parliament has now given the government to limit the spread of infection to the full.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-385	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Ida-Maria-Maria has a severe visual impairment and is disabled. She commutes to the place of study with the help of escorts. Now she needs to move to the place of study, but she is not allowed to be accompanied in that municipality and may therefore be forced to finish her studies. There is support and there is a requirement for higher education institutions to make it easier for students with disabilities to study. But how can students start studying if they cannot move to the new place of study because LSS is interpreted so differently? What does the Government intend to do to ensure that students are able to move to a place of study and not have to turn down or cancel their studies because they do not receive the support they need?
i-T49cKuNnZtziBZcnVnoPMc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Ilona Szatmari Waldau! This is, of course, an extremely urgent issue. We also want students with functional variations and disabilities to be able to take part in higher education. There is also special support to facilitate this. With regard to the person highlighted by the honourable Member here in the example, it seems to me that there are a number of different elements that need to be taken into account. I am happy to talk about this with the honourable Member, but it is not something that I can deliver here and now for more than that it is clear that we should ensure that our college is open to broad recruitment where many people who meet the requirements for higher education will also be able to carry out an education in the form they need. Just today, I'll tell you, the vast majority of educations take place at a distance.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-391	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Matilda Ernkrans. So-called precision medicine provides the right treatment to the right patient at the right time. It is the key to the patient-centred care of the future. However, in order to achieve the national goal that Sweden should be a leading country when it comes to introducing precision medicine in healthcare, more is required than the government's efforts in the research bill. We Christian Democrats believe that concrete national action plans based on the life science strategy are needed to ensure long-term research and implementation of precision medicine in healthcare. In particular, health data must be used in an appropriate way, and the advisory function at the Swedish Research Council is not enough. Adaptation of laws and regulations is required. It is also necessary that any medical assessment in the regions must be made for the benefit of the patient.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-396	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the question. We have just presented to the Riksdag a research and innovation bill for very large investments in Swedish research and innovation of 3.6 billion over four years. Already this year it will be 3.4 billion. It's a very big bet. We also make broad and large investments in health and welfare, also in precision medicine. Of course, it's easy to wish for more. But I am very proud of what we can do together in the middle of Swedish politics. We also establish an advisory function in the Swedish Research Council regarding health data. We should remember that you can share health data for research, provided you have ethical approval. The advisory function at the Swedish Research Council may thus play a practical and important role. At least that's my assessment. Of course, if we need to do more, we should continue to look at it.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-401	Madam President, I would like I would like to draw attention to the problems of the great shortage of teachers and of large drop-outs in several areas of teacher training. An important consequence is an educational segregation in vulnerable areas. Those students who need the most and best educated teachers do not get it. We also have a large proportion of unauthorized teachers, not least in important subjects such as mathematics and natural knowledge. It is therefore good that the government tries to work with it in different ways, for example with shorter educational training and work-integrated teacher training. One activity that I particularly want to highlight is TFS, Teach for Sweden, which contributes together with Luleå University of Technology. I have a question for the Government because we see that drop-outs and throughflows differ. Is the government prepared to review the work-integrated teacher training to support those who have good throughput and high quality and who contribute to reducing the teacher shortage, not least in mathematics?
i-JRHuM8fYarawKS2HbNHiBM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad! We really share the commitment to training more teachers and to having a teacher education that is of high quality and that more people want and can apply. In particular, the Liberals make a very active contribution to the government's work on this issue. We have also jointly ensured that higher education, not least teacher education, is extended throughout the country and that there are several different ways into teacher education. Work-integrated teacher training is one such route. There is also supplementary education, which we will also develop further. That proposal has been submitted for consultation. And we reinforce the work with teacher-led hours and so on. I think we have good work going on in the middle of Swedish politics. I look forward to continuing it.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-408	Frau President! My question goes to Minister Linde. Recently Joe Biden was sworn in as president of the United States after an interesting time, so to speak, in different ways. The important issues are coming to light, and the future is somewhat more hopeful. This leads me to think about how the possibilities for the Stockholm initiative on nuclear disarmament will come about with Biden as President. What hope does the Government have for the NPT Non-Proliferation and Disarmament Conference scheduled for later this year?
i-Kcv72w81ztnoaWP3QPrWrf	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Daniel Andersson! The so-called Stockholm initiative ahead of the NPT conference that Sweden has taken together with 15 other countries is an important and one of the few effective disarmament initiatives that exist right now. It is about reducing the role of nuclear weapons in doctrines, increasing transparency around arsenals and nuclear technology, and rebuilding cooperation and communication channels. We have had three ministerial conferences, most recently in January in Jordan, to get support for this. In addition to the 16 countries that form the basis of the Stockholm initiative, we have now got more to join, including Belgium, Luxembourg, the Philippines, Denmark, Azerbaijan, Iceland and Portugal. I am hopeful that the new Biden administration will have a more constructive approach to the NPT.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-414	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth, who is a representative of the government. It is about the restrictions that the government has had the opportunity to make in terms of pandemic legislation and which have a major impact on activities. We have heard in this House about, among other things, the restaurant business, that you must not cross the border and so on. I wonder how the government is planning this. Of course, a lot is happening during a pandemic. But in a crisis situation, it is particularly important to be even more grounded and then to continue to change the planning you have. It is difficult for businesses from one week to the next to completely close their operations and terminate their staff. They'll have to deal with this all the time. In addition, you can also lose half your income as an employee.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-418	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Lotta Olsson! It is true that the pandemic is hard to predict. It also applies to how the virus spreads. Not least recently, given the mutated variant of the virus, we have had to act very quickly. Then it's hard to keep ahead. These include, for example, air stops during the Christmas and New Year holidays and closed borders from several countries. It is about both being prepared to act quickly and finding good and comprehensive support systems for those affected, as we have agreed in the Riksdag. This may be in the case of unemployment funds or aid directly to the industries in order to save jobs and businesses. The Government works based on several different scenarios described by the Swedish Public Health Agency. There is also a clear vaccination strategy based on the availability of vaccines. We will also have a well-functioning communication about the different options available. For example, proposals for regulating alcohol sales could be presented at today's press conference.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-422	President. - Thank you very much. The other day, the government finally decided, long after many other countries, that a negative test result for covid-19 will be required for a foreigner to enter Sweden. This change is welcome. One can only imagine how many thousands of Swedes would have been alive if such a rule had been in place already last spring. However, there are some exceptions to the requirement for negative test results. Some are self-evident, such as Swedish citizens and people living in Sweden. But asylum seekers – people we don't know who they are, where they come from and whether they really have a need for protection or just make it up – should be admitted without taking tests. I would like to ask Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson if it is really reasonable that anyone should be able to say, I need protection and then get into Sweden, even though you can spread the corona infection?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-425	Madam President, I would like Sweden, like all other countries, is bound by the international regulations that exist for asylum seekers. This means that the person who comes to the border seeking asylum for protection is also to be received by that country. In this respect, Sweden does not differ from any other country, as far as I know. If we were to start saying something else and excluding people because of the pandemic, we would be breaking international regulations. The purpose of the regulations is, in fact, to provide people with protection. Sometimes it sounds to the Swedish Democrats like it's the hello swede and that there will be people who have no need of protection at all. It's not like that. The people who come here and who are granted residence permits after a trial have often fled oppression, war and other hardships. We must be able to continue to take responsibility for them, even in a pandemic situation.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-428	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. There is today a great deal of concern among the country's regional public transport authorities in the run-up to 2022 that travel should not yet recover so that the revenues are in line with what they were before the pandemic. There is a risk of deterioration in supply, which may not least affect rural areas.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-430	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anne-Anne-Li Sjölund, for a very good question! We are making extensive efforts to ensure that transport is of social importance. Of course, when the pandemic occurred, the first priority was to stop and prevent the spread of the disease and ensure that the health care system had the right response. But saving jobs and businesses and ensuring that socially important transport works has been an important priority. The freight transport system is functioning well. In addition to the general state subsidies that municipalities and regions, which are responsible for public transport, have received, we have also taken historic, new decisions with earmarked state contributions from the government to the public transport authorities. At first there were 3 billion, and for this year it has so far been 2 billion kronor. These are conditional in any sense to maintain the volume so that people can go infectiously. I do not rule out the need to make further efforts. Public transport is incredibly important for those who cannot drive or work from home and want to get to work safely.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-434	Madam President, I would like I have a question on the same subject, namely public transport in our country. Recently, Swedish Public Transport came with its latest forecast where they pointed out that public transport lost approximately SEK 7.5 billion last year. The forecast is that you'll probably lose as much to 7.5 billion this year. This is a direct consequence of our calls to avoid travelling collectively if one can. The Minister mentioned the direct state aid that the government has entered. That applies to EUR 3 billion last year, and now another EUR 2 billion has been announced for this year. But, Tomas Eneroth, in the light of the forecast is that public transport will lose SEK 7.5 billion and since they have previously lost as much last year is not enough SEK 2 billion. Or does the Minister think that SEK 2 billion is enough? Public transport is to be developed, not phased out, so what else does the Minister intend to do for public transport?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-437	Madam President, I would like I share the commitment to public transport. It is incredibly important, not least in this situation. As I said earlier, it applies to those who cannot take the car to work or work from home and still want to be able to travel safely. This also applies to those who work in public transport. However, we should remember that the main responsibility for public transport lies with the country's regions and municipalities. They have the main responsibility. We have therefore increased general state subsidies more than ever in order to cover the loss of income or ticket income that exists. In addition, we now provide earmarked state grants of up to SEK 5 billion. The last 2 billion are set in relation to what volume you have. We have seen that in some regions public transport has been cut, despite the fact that the needs are high and we are not going to contribute to increased spread of infection. As I said, I certainly do not rule out the possibility of having to come back with additional support. Because public transport is incredibly important to many people. We'll protect it.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-440	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Higher Education and Research, Matilda Ernkrans. Many companies and public businesses report that they are increasingly finding it difficult to find people with the right skills and knowledge for their services. At the same time, there is an increasing need to further train those who are already employed. Digitisation and robotics are accelerating changes in the labour market. There is much evidence in the coronapandemine's tracks that structural change will go even faster. Sweden's ability to compete with knowledge and skills in an increasingly globalised market depends on people in our country being able to switch over several times during their working lives. We also need to have an education and study funding system that enables lifelong learning. I am convinced that accelerating technological development in the labour market will require a more comprehensive and flexible education system.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Yes, work and education through life and throughout the country are really a priority for the government. It is because we know that changes in the labour market put people in situations where they need to educate themselves perhaps several times in their lives. Then we must have an education and study funding system that meets it. I also tried to express this on a previous question from the Swedish Democrats. If you are to really and seriously feel how important it is to have the right education for the right job, you must have those experiences and knowledge with you. Then you know how important this is. We know that. We have expanded the training places by 144,000 since 2015. We have strengthened educational opportunities and student support opportunities. We have also reinforced the additional loan. In addition, we will soon make it possible for study funds higher up to the age.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-448	Madam President, I would like My question is about road maintenance and goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. Madam President, I would like If we are serious about the whole country living, we also need roads to the whole country. The road network is society's bloodstream, where transport must go out to every part. The Swedish parliament's car network yesterday arranged a seminar on potholes and neglected road maintenance. Serious pot holes are found throughout the country, from south to north and also in Stockholm. Dalsland warns about substandard roads in a letter to Västra Götaland region. Instead of strengthening the road network, speeds have been reduced from 90 to 80 kilometres for a hundred miles in our road network. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure what he is planning to tackle the road maintenance debt so that the roads are updated to the future need for more transport.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-452	Madam President, I would like This is a very urgent issue. We have chosen to invest a lot in road maintenance. The Finnish Transport Administration has never had as much resources as it is now. In the national plan, we set aside SEK 164 billion for road maintenance after years of underinvestment when not least a moderate government chose to spend money on tax cuts rather than on necessary infrastructure. Since then, in almost every budget, we have provided resources to combat potholes. In the last budget, we announced – and it has probably been decided now – 1.5 billion in earmarked resources for road maintenance in rural areas. It is incredibly important from the point of view of road safety and for there to be accessibility throughout the country that we have good resources for our roads. In this way, we also ensure that infrastructure investments are carried out throughout the country, in cities as well as in rural areas.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-455	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. I continue on the same theme but want to talk about winter road maintenance. In recent weeks we have seen that E20, E4, highway 40, highway 23, and so on have had traffic stops due to the extensive accessibility problems. This affects industries and important transport to grocery stores and health care. This is not how we can have it in a modern society, as has been said several times before. The Government says the Finnish Transport Administration has enough money to make it through. We can see that they do not. Trafikverket also says that they have a modern way to manage road maintenance in winter. We can see that this does not work either. Facebook is flooded with pictures of people skating out on the major European roads. This isn't good enough.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-459	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for a very urgent question. Let us remember that, first of all, there are no budgetary restrictions. How the snow falls commutes between the years, and therefore there should be no budgetary restrictions on snow and slip control. There are all the possibilities for Trafikverket to make the right efforts, now with the help of modern technology where you measure and look at where the efforts are best used. In addition, this government has introduced winter tyre requirements for heavy-duty vehicles. It was not a legal requirement in the past. We are considering whether we should move forward with further demands with regard to EU trailers blocking the roads. It is of course important here both that the police make the right efforts in the form of checks on our roads and that the buyer of transport has a responsibility to ensure that transport complies with the rules that exist. I am concerned when I see not least Eastern European trailers standing along our roads with bad tires. That is not acceptable. It is a question of increased controls and greater responsibility for those who order transport.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-463	Madam President, I would like I put my question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. A lot of people have been hurt in the past year because of the pandemic. Unfortunately, children and young people are also sexually exploited in different ways by adults. It's nothing new, but the police have seen an increase over the year. If an offender forces a child to rape himself, and it happens over the internet, current legislation does not really follow. An offender makes contact with a girl on social media. There the girl is instructed to put things in her own belly and send videos of herself to the offender. Because a video is sent and there is no live streaming, the perpetrator is convicted of child sexual abuse, not of child rape – a crime of lower criminal value. I mean, it's the same abuse. Films are sent back and forth. What is the government going to do about this?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-467	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with what Maria Strömkvist says, namely that this gap needs to be addressed. We did a lot during the last parliamentary term in the fight against sexual violence. Perhaps most well known is the consent law, which I believe is the most important criminal law reform that we have carried out. The law was based on the simple but obvious principle, namely that sex should be voluntary. If it's not voluntary, it's an abuse. Such legislation was put in place, which has led to a sharp increase in the number of convictions in rape cases in recent years. More than 350 special investigators have also been recruited to the police, who work with a focus on crimes against women and children and related violence. We put a lot of money into that. As Maria Strömkvist says, we must do more in this part too. We are therefore appointing an investigator to review sexual crimes online. I am receiving a report from the investigator in March, and then, of course, we will proceed to Parliament to close the gap that Maria Strömkvist points out.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-471	Madam President, I would like I address myself to the Secretary of State. The natural thing would have been that we had asked questions about Russia and Navalnyj, but we are some Members who will have a special debate with the Foreign Minister tomorrow, so I will save that question for tomorrow. That is why I was going to ask a question in view of the weak parliamentary support that the government has in the Swedish Parliament and the fairly large security policy challenges that we face. It is about continuing to deepen security policy cooperation with Finland, and it is about our relationship with the UK now that the country has left the EU with Brexit. This is a possible so-called declaration of solidarity aimed at the United Kingdom. It is about the development of a new national security strategy on the part of the government, and finally it is about a large majority of the Swedish parliament having supported the idea of a NATO option. Should not a government with a weak parliamentary basis invite to party deliberations?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-475	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for the question, and I look forward to the interpellation debates tomorrow on Russia and Navalnyj. There are a number of different paths in which the government has consultations, information, discussion and consultation with the Riksdag, for example in the Foreign Affairs Committee and before the EU Board, where many foreign affairs that have preceded discussions in the Foreign Affairs Committee are addressed. On special occasions, we also have the opportunity to inform and consult with the Riksdag of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. Then, of course, there is the Defence Committee, where this kind of discussion takes place. I believe that there is a good relationship when it comes to discussing security policy issues as it stands today between the government and Parliament. It is a well-functioning and appreciated cooperation, and I hope it is mutual.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-479	Madam President, I would like In 2018, Turkey, together with Allied Jihadists, including the so-called Syrian National Army, attacked the mainly secular Kurdish province of Afrin in north-west Syria. The result was an ethnic cleansing in which 80 percent were displaced to be replaced by mainly Sunniarabs from Idlib province in Syria. The so-called Syrian National Army is a guerrilla group formed by the so-called Syrian Interim Government, which has received the support of the EU and Sweden. As the only party, the Swedish Democrats opposed the Council conclusions that expressed support for these perpetrators. For this reason, I wonder why it is so quiet from the government about this ethnic cleansing and whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs regrets that Sweden has expressed support for these perpetrators.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-481	Madam President, I would like The development of Turkey's offensive against the northern parts of Syria has been condemned by the government and by me when it happened and on several occasions afterwards. It is not that we have been silent about the abuses that have taken place, and it is not that we view this lightly, as is suggested in the matter. On the contrary, it is very serious and something that the government is constantly working against. Democracy, human rights and the rule of law must, of course, apply in these areas too.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-484	Madam President, I would like In 2014, the Riksdag passed a law to deal with the so-called car goalkeepers. They are used to escape traffic and vehicle related taxes and charges. That law meant that the bailiff can seize the vehicle itself, and the law proved to be largely ineffective. Four years later, the total debt was 1.9 billion, and the 100 most indebted accounted for 370 million and were registered owners of over 25,000 vehicles. This was one of the reasons why the government presented in 2020 a proposal, which was decided by the Riksdag, to grant vehicles with unpaid parking fees of more than SEK 5,000 driving bans. It is important to get to grips with the car goalkeepers because it is often about organised crime.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-488	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good question. Car goalkeepers are a scourge and are a way of carrying out organised crime – economic crime – in Sweden, and there has been a lack of efforts to stop this crime. We have gradually worked to close the gaps and make it more difficult to use car goalkeepers. The latest example of legislation we have pushed through has proved to be a success. We are pushing and increasing revenue through increased debt recovery. With the investigative work that Björn Hansson has led and made suggestions for, we have acquired additional tools that I hope the Riksdag will support in order to properly stop the car goalkeepers. It is illegal activity, and it is a way of exploiting people. Here we have finally acquired with the help of solid investigative work the opportunity and tools to push back the car goalkeepers. It's not a human right to own a thousand cars. In this way, we are creating opportunities to stop the illegal trade that it entails with car goalkeepers.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-491	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth as representative of the government. The world is flooded with plastic products. The Helsingborg company Gaia Biomaterials has developed biodegradable bags, which look like plastic bags. They can be used up to 50 times and then composted, even in a simple home compost. In its judgment, the Tax Tribunal considers that the bag should be taxed as a plastic bag. The innovation is developed together with the EU's Life Environment Programme, and the material can be described as a new substitute material for plastics. It is expected to replace 80 percent of all volume plastics, approximately 300 million tonnes globally on an annual basis. It should be obvious that this bag should be exempt from plastic bag tax.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-495	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Sander, for an important question! What it is all about is that we have seen for a long time how plastic use increases. Not least has this been noticed in our seas, which have been full of plastic products worldwide. Sweden has taken the lead, not least during Isabella Lövin's ambitious work to save our seas, in pushing through legislation to limit plastic use. The plastic bag tax is an example of tools that we use. In fact, I think we can all admit that we are not using as much plastic bags as before. But this has also helped the industry to start researching alternative uses and new materials that can be used. Of course we should acknowledge that development. With regard to the future impact of this court case, I assume that work is now under way to see how we can continue to stimulate alternatives to the toxic plastics that have otherwise been used. In this way, we all contribute, industry through its development and we through our consumption, to saving the earth.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-499	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. In Sweden we celebrate the democratic anniversary. On the other side of the Baltic Sea, more specifically in Russia, the trend seems to be going in the opposite direction. Just before the end of the year, legislative changes were pushed through to shut down civil society and silence critical voices. Today we can see how to pressure social media companies to stop Kremlin-critical information and people's ability to organise themselves in the free opposition. Freedom of expression needs to be unequivocally defended against those in power who want to silence critical voices.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-502	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for a very good question! As I just mentioned, yesterday I came home from Moscow. There I spoke to the Foreign Minister but also to the President of the Senate – that is, the Second Chamber of the Duma – Foreign Affairs Committee and a number of politicians. I raised at both these meetings freedom of expression and the reduction of democratic space, as well as the so-called law on foreign agents, which requires people, journalists and organisations to label themselves as foreign agents if, for example, they receive funds, directly or indirectly, from other countries, such as aid funds from Sweden. This makes them stigmatized and more difficult to work. I also met a wide range of NGOs during my meeting.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-505	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have a pronounced lack of teachers and a strongly criticised teacher training. I see the government's willingness to do something about it in the proposals for better teacher training and more teachers who are now being consulted. But I am afraid that the proposal that is before us is not enough. Criticism is simple: The quality of teacher education is far too low, and education is not in line with the real profession. Many in the profession can testify to this. As I see it, the minister responsible has two options. Either she can change the reality of Swedish schools or she can change the teacher education considerably. I think we need to do both. The government's proposal, which is now being referred, lacks some important and fundamental elements. This includes how we can attract more men to teacher education, how to reduce drop-out and a plan for how teachers can get more relaxed colleagues, such as curators and study supervisors. My question to the responsible Minister, Matilda Ernkrans today is: is she aware that we need to do far more than the proposals that are now before us?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-509	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Ahlström Ahlström, for the commitment to a qualitatively good teacher education that exists throughout the country. We know we need good teachers all over the country. We also know that the vast majority of students of teacher education also stay within the region where they have read. This means that we need teacher training throughout the country in order for us to be able to cope with the skills supply. We need to continue working on quality; that is quite obvious. Here the universities themselves have a responsibility, but of course we also have a responsibility to do this. I can reassure the honourable Member that the referral on reformed teacher training which is now out is only part of the work we are doing in the government together with the Center Party and the Liberals to improve teacher training. The referral that is out is important. For example, there are suggestions here that we should increase the teacher-led time by setting goals for each higher education institution. We will strengthen the link between theory and practice and so on. More needs to be done, and we have done more too.
i-Tj5oyCGDNjsJrvu1webW85	Madam President, I would like According to police statistics, the shootings have increased by 10 percent compared to last year. There were 47 people who died and 117 who were injured in 366 shootings. The government repeatedly says that the number of police officers is increasing and that there have never been as many police officers as there are now. In terms of the total number of police officers, the increase is marginal; however, this does not apply to the number of police officers in external service. What is not mentioned, however, is that we have also experienced a sharp increase in the population, largely due to immigration. Ten years ago there were 216 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. But last year the police density was down to 198 per 100,000 inhabitants. The number of police per capita in Sweden represents less than two thirds of the EU average. My question to Morgan Johansson is: how can this downward spiral be reversed, when we actually have fewer police officers today than we had ten years ago?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-516	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is: by training more police officers, by ensuring that more police officers who have left the profession come back again and by ensuring that fewer police officers leave the police force. All three points are now moving in the right direction. We are training three times as many police officers as we did when we took office. The number of police officers leaving the force has decreased, and the number returning to the force again, as they see the pressure in the police force, its growth and the important tasks they have to work with, is increasing. Let's keep this up. In recent years we have started police training in two new locations, Malmö and Borås. Just a few weeks ago, the first hills walked out of there. As Katja Nyberg knows, we are working to increase the number of police employees by a total of 10,000 by 2024. We set that goal in 2017, and we are already halfway. We see that there are very good conditions for doing so. The expansion of the police organization will therefore continue in the way I have described.
i-HkAkFEN22XBNy4fTKpbUqh	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me: If I consider that there is a problem with the import of meat from animals slaughtered in a way that would violate Swedish animal welfare legislation, and if so, if I intend to change this If we can expect me to act to phase out CO2 anaesthetic for slaughter the measures to ensure that animal welfare at slaughterhouses is strengthened which can be expected from me, such as video surveillance or more severe reprisals in the event of abuse; The provisions on slaughter are regulated at EU level by Council Regulation (EC) No 1099/ 2009 on the protection of animals at the time of killing. The Regulation provides that all animals are to be stunned before killing, but this requirement does not apply to animals slaughtered by specific methods imposed by religious rites, provided that the slaughter takes place in a slaughterhouse. D a Swedish Animal Welfare Act is stricter than the EU Regulation and states that animals must always be stunned before killing. A fundamental principle of the EU Treaty is the free movement of goods in the EU internal market. Thus, a product legally manufactured or for sale in another EU country may also be sold in Sweden. Carbon dioxide anaesthetic is a method that has often been discussed recently, not least at EU level, based on research showing that animals experience pain and stress as they breathe in the gas and that it can take 30 to 60 seconds before the animal is unconscious. There is a need for more research and knowledge about alternative methods of carbon sequestration. The National Agricultural Agency is therefore required, in accordance with the regulations for 2021, to follow the development of research into and analyse the possibility of using alternative methods for carbon dioxide and electric anaesthetics at slaughter. Controls at slaughterhouses are carried out by official veterinarians employed by the Finnish Food Administration and the County Administrative Board. The official veterinarians carry out animal welfare checks in their day-to-day, day-to-day operations, and the county administrative board checks that slaughterhouses comply with animal welfare rules. However, we should remember that it is the responsibility of the slaughterhouse to ensure that animals are treated well from the time they arrive at the slaughterhouse until they are killed. Camera surveillance has been introduced in some countries to strengthen animal welfare in slaughterhouses. There are several aspects to consider when discussing camera surveillance in slaughterhouses. It concerns both animal welfare and the protection of the integrity of individuals. In order to ensure that we have effective and effective sanctions in the event of an animal offence, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to review, among other things, the scale of penalties for such offences. The Special Investigator submitted his report to the Government in February 2020. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag with a proposal during 2021.
i-55KiiDwP9Ugj6PcrBM5Rqy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the nterpellation! I note that much of the response is devoted to explaining how Swedish animal welfare legislation is applied, how to act and how this is regulated at European level. All the less, the Government is talking about the questions I have actually asked about precisely stunning for slaughter. These are three quite specific issues. The first is whether there is a problem with the import of meat from animals slaughtered in a way that would violate Swedish animal welfare legislation and whether there are any ambitions to change this. Here I see no answer to the question. Instead, the Government refers to the provisions on slaughter at EU level. That is precisely the problem. Like the Government, I am very proud that Sweden is at the forefront of animal welfare regulations, but when one can bypass them it is still a big problem. Animals can be slaughtered without being stunned before. Will the Government or Government act to ensure that we get exceptions in the rules or in any way ensure that the imported meat we buy in the grocery stores complies with the same high safety standards as Swedish meat? My second question was whether the Government wishes to phase out the carbon sequestration. It is an stunning method which today violates Swedish animal welfare legislation. We know that's the case. Yet the government does not seem to care very much about trying to speed up a process of replacing this method. That is totally unacceptable to me. I do not understand how this can be done when it comes to something that violates current legislation. Has the government put a single crown in trying to find alternative methods, or has there been any limit to the phasing out of this stunning method? After all, it is a method that is directly painful for the individuals who undergo it. It's about hundreds of thousands of animals every year. The third issue was to strengthen controls on slaughterhouses. Yes, more checks are being carried out today. I note that the Minister has actually replied that this is being reviewed. I think that is a good thing. However, in several countries there is today video surveillance of slaughterhouses, and it works. I do not know whether the Government has any figures on cases where it has not worked or any examples of problems with regard to, for example, the integrity of those working in slaughterhouses. Has any further steps been taken to review how this could be applied in Sweden?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-532	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for the questions. However, I would like to say that I responded to them in my opening speech. But I will repeat and possibly develop some of the answers if this is requested. The answer to the first question is exactly what I said initially: Sweden is a member of the European Union, and the European Union has rules for both animal welfare and the functioning of the internal market. It is about how one can and cannot say no to exports and imports. That is the simple answer to that question. Then in Sweden we have acted in the way we can by ensuring that we have exceptions. We therefore have stronger animal welfare in Sweden also when it comes specifically to slaughter without stunning. There we took advantage of the opportunities that existed. Recently, there was a court case in which a country – I think it was Belgium – wanted to introduce such rules. Sweden had it before, and Belgium wanted to introduce it after the control regulation had come into place. Then there was a court case, where Sweden acted and filed submissions. We were very pleased when the Court's ruling came, which stated that it was possible for a country to impose such sanctions despite the control sanctions that exist within the framework of EU cooperation. What is a challenge, of course, is that there are a number of different quantities that stand against each other, just as it is also in national legislation. Questions of freedom of religion against free movement and market principles are being weighed up in all parts. Sweden is very active, especially in the field of animal law, but also in the fundamental area of free movement. As far as animal law is concerned, we have constantly sought to find an arena and a forum to pursue these issues at European level, because it has major consequences. This is not least the case if, as a nation, we want to take the lead in this area and make strong demands. Then we do not want our products to be able to be competed out by countries that have lower requirements. We have had some impact on this, especially in recent years. The Earth-to-Table approach, which is being worked on now, actually highlights animal welfare issues in a different way. We have created a platform with some other countries – Denmark, Belgium, Germany, Austria, I think, and Holland. There they work to develop manuals and to drive this work in a direction that is in line with what Sweden wants. It's important. But the concrete answer to the question of how to influence is that one cannot influence so that it is not possible to import. It is not possible as long as it is legal in the European Union, and it is legal in most countries of the European Union. However, one can of course do something as a consumer – we can well together be better at informing consumers about this. If you want to ensure that you do not buy meat produced by these methods, you can choose to buy from countries that do not have those methods. Sweden is such a country. At present, Belgium is another. There are a handful of such countries. The easiest is of course to buy Swedish. The issue of carbon sequestration has been much debated. I can only say here that there is currently no stunning method that is completely uncontroversial and therefore easy to replace the anaesthetic of carbon dioxide. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has therefore given SLU the task of researching this. They submitted a report to SLU sometime this autumn, which led us in the regulations for this year to commission the Swedish Board of Agriculture to continue to follow the issue. It is not least a question of identifying what is needed to ensure that the methods currently available at the hypothesis and research stage are ready to reach a market.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-541	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a very good answer, I must say! Does the Government aim, for example, to tighten up the labelling or increase the possibility of meat labelling in order to inform consumers? I am thinking, for example, of ready-made dishes and restaurant food. Will it become clearer that it is foreign meat? Many consumers, including myself, see it as a pretty big problem that you don't know what kind of meat you eat. The Swedish Animal Welfare Act is strong, as we have previously stated. It stands out as one of the better in Europe, perhaps even the best. In the best of worlds, the Swedish Animal Welfare Act would be the minimum level across the EU. Unfortunately, this is not the case. We suffer in many respects from a competitive disadvantage because we are very concerned about the welfare of animals in Sweden. Yet there are problems in Sweden too, as we saw not at all long ago. Some butchers and others mishandle their work to such an extent that the animals are tormented. But, as I said, this is a competitive disadvantage. Is the Government working within the EU so that we can allow for a certain restriction of the free market that exists, in order to protect Swedish products, in this case meat, when the corresponding Swedish animal welfare rules have been violated in other countries? In some way, Swedish farmers and Swedish butchers have to benefit from the fact that they actually care about animals in a completely different way than foreign farmers and butchers do. And as a consumer, you should feel safe when buying meat, no matter where it comes from.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-544	Madam President, I would like We work very broadly and purposefully on these issues. Let's do it nationally. We strengthened Swedish animal welfare legislation as late as 2019. There is ongoing work to ensure that we have effective control methods. Perhaps it is one of the things that is being asked for. It is clear that there is a need, linked to, for example, media reporting on abuses that have existed in slaughterhouses. We have received an investigation into sanctions, which we are now working on. We will come to the Riksdag with it later in the year. You can look at the investigation's suggestions. It is a question of reviewing criminal offences and penalties in order to ensure compliance with the law. That is a good thing, but, as Markus Wiechel says, we need to work in parallel to raise animal standards at European level. This is a very priority issue for Sweden. I feel, as I said, that we have contributed to the fact that these issues are now on the political agenda, which they did not just a few years ago. This has been achieved by finding like-minded countries that also have that interest. In the CAP negotiations that took place just before Christmas, for example, a priority issue that Sweden pushed very hard was that support could also be provided for things that are national law in addition to EU law when it comes to compensating farmers. We did not hear that in the Council. We fought for it for a very long time. However, I note at the moment that the issue has come up again through the European Parliament in the trilogues. That's good. The issue is moving and gaining a completely different weight. Then I think that much of this is about the need to start using consumers and consumer power. I think that is what really drives these issues forward. In this context, labelling issues will, of course, be relevant. In Sweden we have very successful examples. The industry itself introduced Sweden labelling on several products. It has had an enormous impact on meat in particular. When you see that meat consumption overall goes down, you see that the consumption of Swedish meat goes up. When conscious consumers can make informed choices, it actually affects the market, and many consumers want to choose well-produced stuff. They are also prepared to pay a little extra for it. Therefore, the debate that is currently taking place in the EU on both animal welfare and the issue of labelling – it is another issue that lies on the EU's table and is linked to the from-ground-to-table approach – interesting. We are not talking primarily about origin labelling, which is another issue, but about providing information on nutrient content and possibly on climate footprints and other things. In this debate, we need to consider how animal welfare issues may also be included. When I think about this issue, it is not primarily linked to whether it is slaughtered by halal or kosher methods. From a Swedish perspective, we may primarily have an interest in showing that we have low antibiotic use when it comes to our meat. There are a number of issues that are about ensuring that consumers can make informed and informed choices. Swedish consumers have shown that they choose good quality and things that are good produced. I believe that European consumers would also be quite prepared to make such choices.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-551	Madam President, I would like That brings us to another issue that I am a little interested in, given the power of the consumer and that consumers should decide. It concerns public procurement. We see how public activities, such as schools, hospitals and so on, must relate to procurement. This means that it often becomes the cheapest meat bought in, which may in many cases contain a lot of antibiotics. It could simply be meat coming from countries that do not have the same animal welfare requirements as we do.
i-efedf8c9730dab99-553	I would be happy to come back to this with carbon sequestration, which we have been talking about in the past. It is a method that is already in conflict with Swedish animal welfare legislation. I am well aware that alternatives are currently lacking. But there are some positive examples. Right now they have – I don't know if it was at Linköping University – decided that you can use some kind of foam, nitrogen foam of some kind, for pigs. But the government has not set aside any means to try to speed up that process, which the Swedish Democrats actually have. What is being done to develop new methods? Has any date been set, or does one have any ambition to set a date for when this can be phased out? Madam President, I would like I do not have much time left here, but I would also like to hear whether the Government is watching, for example, Germany and other countries that have video surveillance of slaughterhouses. Is it considered to introduce this kind of legislation in Sweden or to introduce more severe reprisals when overstepping animal welfare?
i-efedf8c9730dab99-556	Madam President, I would like I start from behind and try to answer the questions very briefly and clearly: I am not at all foreign to look at the scale of penalties or to look at whether more penalties are needed in the context of animal cruelty. I am also no stranger to looking at what tools are required for us to have effective control. Both of these things are fundamental in order for us to ensure that the animal welfare team that we have and which we basically, I believe, are jointly quite proud of is also being observed in practice. Both of these issues are worth looking further at, and when it comes to sanctions, proposals are coming to Parliament and are expected to come shortly before or shortly after the summer. As far as public procurement is concerned, I can see that work is under way. I do not know what the status is right now, but it has been given a political mandate to look at the possibility of entering the EU with a request for us to be able to demand that what is procured to the public sector be procured in accordance with Swedish law. This means that you cannot say that you have to procure a Swedish pig, but you can say that you should procure a pig that is bred and slaughtered in accordance with Swedish law. There is work to produce such a basis to go to Brussels with. However, it is not in my department, so I do not know how far this process has gone. We have also developed and submitted a mission to the Swedish Food Safety Agency to look at and produce a basis for requesting, once again to Brussels, to demand information on meat, for example, in restaurants. That mission is delayed due to Corona, but it's on its way. In summary, a number of different works are under way in order to strengthen animal welfare in Sweden and to ensure that it is complied with in the best possible way.
