i-09ce15a3a6c9e711-0	Ladies and gentlemen! On 10 November, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven asked to be dismissed from the post of Prime Minister. I accepted the request and dismissed the Prime Minister and other ministers while reminding them that, according to the form of the government, they retain their mandate in the form of a transitional government until a new government takes office. According to the form of government, the Prime Minister is elected by the Riksdag. When a Prime Minister resigns, the Riksdag will therefore elect a new Prime Minister. I therefore began the third formation of the government on 11 November this parliamentary term by consulting the party leaders in the framework of a so-called presidential round. Before I go on to present the results of the further process, I would like to put this formation of government in a historical context. I have said several times that this is a very special term in Swedish politics. It began with the record-long government formation 2018/ 2019 that took 134 days. It continued with a pandemic that has had a significant impact on political work and is still not over. It then passed into a government crisis in June and July this year. And now Stefan Lövven's resignation comes as the first party chairman and then Prime Minister. It is not entirely unique to have three formations of government during the same term of office. It's happened before. After the breakthrough of democracy, it has been carefully calculated twice, namely the term of office 1924–1928 with the governments Branting 3, Sandler and Ekman 1 and the term of office 1928–1932 with the governments Lindman 2, Ekman 2 and Hamrin. It can be said that it has been about 90 years since the last time. It is therefore not a common phenomenon in Swedish politics. To broaden the perspective a little further, I can mention that the United States, as you probably know, is good at keeping track of its Presidents. Joe Biden is the 46th president of the United States. How many prime ministers have we had in Sweden? The modern Prime Minister's office was established in 1876, 145 years ago. Since then, 33 people have held the post of Prime Minister. Some have returned several times. We have had more governments, but 33 individuals have held the country's top political office. I have therefore begun the process of appointing one person to become Sweden's 34th Prime Minister. How many government formations and thus how many governments have we had since 1876, one might ask. The answer is 51. It obviously includes replacing a government with a certain Prime Minister and party composition by another government with a different personality and party composition, for example after an election. It also includes a government that has lost a vote of confidence since its creation with the same government founder, as happened last summer. And that includes that a government retains the same government founder but that the party composition changes. If anyone wants to take part in a full list of these formations of government, such a list can be found on the Riksdag's website. I have therefore begun the third formation of the government this term of office and the 52nd since the establishment of the Prime Minister's office. On 11 November, I instructed Magdalena Andersson to probe the conditions for forming a government that can be tolerated by the Riksdag. Her exploratory assignment was extended on November 16th. We had a reconciliation over the phone on Friday, November 19th. And she gave me the final report today at 12 o'clock. I then consulted with the Vice-Presidents, informed His Majesty the King and can now inform the House that I propose that the Riksdag appoint Magdalena Andersson from the Social Democrats, who intends to form a government composed of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
