i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-26	Madam President, I would like Jon Thorbjörnson has asked me how long I think the Swedish citizens who have come to Sweden through adoption should have to wait before the government investigates what possible errors were committed in Sweden when they became Swedish citizens. He has also asked me whether I and the government will take responsibility for informing everyone who has been adopted to Sweden from Chile that the adoption may have been carried out on illegal grounds. Furthermore, he has asked me whether I intend to work to investigate whether there is a need to tighten up the supervision of Swedish adoption organisations. I and the government take the criminal investigation in Chile about child abduction and adoption irregularities very seriously. I understand that it is terrible for all those who have been affected and that it can be a great psychological strain for those who are still looking for answers to their questions. Since what happened in Chile in the 1970s to the 19th century, other rules and international conventions have entered into force aimed at ensuring that adoption takes place in a safe and legal manner. In 1997, Sweden ratified the 1993 Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions, and in 1990 Sweden ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Fundamental to the Hague Convention is that States have a responsibility to ensure that the best interests of the child are taken into account in each part of the adoption process. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also requires that what is considered to be the best interests of the child should be taken into account in all measures relating to children. Furthermore, authorisation conditions and supervision have been strengthened over the years. Since 2005, the Swedish regulatory framework requires authorisation in two stages. This means that, in addition to a review of the adoption intermediary organisations in Sweden, countries, parts of countries or the adoption contacts through which the organisations are allowed to communicate children are also being examined. The government has taken note of the information from the criminal investigation and the parliamentary investigation in Chile through our central authority for international adoptions, the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, MFoF. The intention was initially to wait for the Chilean criminal investigation in order to determine possible measures in Sweden. But since the criminal investigation has been delayed, I see that the government needs to act to begin a review of how the adoption agency worked in Sweden during the 1960s to 1990s. Such a review will not be limited to adoptions from Chile alone. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in political consultation with Chile, the government has stated that Sweden can assist the criminal investigation if there is a need. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also had a continuous dialogue and several meetings with interest groups, among these Chileadoption.se whose members are adopted from Chile. The Embassy of Sweden in Chile has also met representatives from local interest groups. We have taken note of the experience and views that have been presented and have responded in several parts to the needs that have been expressed. The government has taken several measures to improve support for adopted people. Among other things, M f oF has since 2020 been tasked with providing individual help and support in the search of origin and also adoption-specific call support for those in need. The search for origin consists, among other things, of help in finding biological parents and relatives and support when there are suspicions of irregularities associated with adoption. In 2020, around 80 people made use of this support. In addition, Statskontoret was tasked with reviewing the organisation of international adoption activities in Sweden in February 2020. The mission meant to consider whether the organisation should change based on a focus on how legal certainty, children's rights perspective and competence can be ensured. In its presentation of the assignment on 29 January 2021, Statskontoret concluded that we have an appropriate organisation of the adoption agency in Sweden. It shows that international adoptions have gradually become more secure and secure, both for children and for adopters, but that the perspective of children's rights and legal certainty can be further improved. Statskontoret concluded that MFoF has relevant competence and that they are working to a large extent to ensure that adoptions are carried out legally and with children's best in focus. The Government is now reviewing the need for action based on Statskontoret's proposal.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your answer! This issue has taken a quick turn lately – a little unexpectedly I have to say – and put the interpellation in a new light. From the fact that the issue has not been discussed at all, it is suddenly commented by all parties. All parties in the Swedish Parliament have said that they are in favour of an investigation after DN's review of the illegal adoptions. It is a bit tumultuous to get that information the night before the current interpellation debate that we are in right now. But I am grateful for the investigative journalism from one of Sweden's largest newspapers, for before the report it was quite lonely to demand here in Parliament an examination of the international adoptions, despite all the testimony that was there before. I heard them from organisations such as Chileadoption.se and AEF. The Left Party has been pushing the issue for three years, but much longer the adopted have been working on this both individually and in organizations. And it is not easy to get an impact, to reach out and be heard. Despite this, they have not given up but continued to fight. That's impressive. They cannot be here in this hall today, and I sincerely hope that they will reap the benefits of their hard work. It is a pity that it has taken so long to come to the conclusion that an investigation is needed. Today we know that children have been stolen in hospitals and other institutions. Children have been declared dead and birth certificates are false. Alarm reports have come in earlier, several times over. During the 21st century, officials at MFoF, the Swedish authority that will review whether adoptions have been carried out, have alerted several times. The President of Korea gave a speech in 1998 in which he apologized for the adoptions from the country. And in Chile, a parliamentary inquiry into international adoptions was completed last year. In it you can read, among other things: It is a fact that hundreds of children in Chile have been torn away from their parents and removed, especially from abroad. It is a truth which cannot be contradicted and which has been confirmed by the testimony of all those who have been called to participate in the case. In the Riksdag, the Left Party has pushed the issue of investigating international adoptions since SVT reported the suspected irregularities in 2018. For three years we have been exercising and asking questions, but we have not received any response. Only a month ago, I raised the question with the Minister at Question Time in this Chamber. Then the answer was that not much had happened and that we should keep waiting. However, in Switzerland and the Netherlands, for example, international adoptions are being investigated. The Dutch investigation has already been completed, and such shortcomings have been found that in that country it decided to stop all international adoptions. The report points to systematic errors, falsified documents, fraud, corruption and pressure on poor women to give up their children. I have tried to stay on top of the international adoptions and the legal and ethical problems around them – mainly from Chile, which is currently under way, but also from other countries to which there has been no right, including India, China, Ethiopia. The list is long. But not much has happened. Now, however, there has been talk of an investigation. The government no longer intends to wait for a criminal investigation in Chile that has already been going on for several years. What has changed since last month when the message was that we should keep waiting? When's the investigation coming? Why would the minister want to limit the investigation to the second half of the 20th century? We need to look at adoptions to Sweden even after the 20th century.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-44	Madam President, I would like The criminal investigation that has begun in Chile would take about two years. From the outset, both I and my predecessor were clear that in every way we could support this criminal investigation, both by official means and by helping those individuals who had a need to submit information or by other means contribute to the investigation. In parallel with this, we did not see an investigation in Sweden as the best way, but we wanted to wait for the investigation. However, the Chilean investigation has not taken two years or three years. Nor do they say that it will be ready next week, but it will probably be going on for quite a long time to come. Management has been changed and the work has been set up in a different way than the original one. That is why we need to review how the adoption agency has been carried out. Although it is the Chilean situation that is being highlighted, it is important to say that a review of adoption agencies is not aimed at a country, but specifically at the adoption agency. Another part is about how adoptions work today and how they can be done better. Here, too, things have happened, which I mentioned a little about in my interpellation response. This includes support for the individual to be able to seek his or her origins, which most countries have not had but are now introducing. There should now be an authority or equivalent that can support anyone who wants to search for origin. In Sweden, MFoF will contribute to this. I mentioned that there were about eighty applicants in 2020, and there is every reason to believe that when it becomes more known that this possibility exists, more people will make use of it. I hope so, because that is why this opportunity exists. Many changes were made to the system during the 1990s, both after the ratification of the Hague Convention and in the Swedish system. As late as 2018, further changes were made, and on January 29 this year Statskontoret brought its report – talking about what has happened in one month. So things are happening all the time, and we are getting not only knowledge but also suggestions on how to move forward and strengthen legal certainty further. The background to Statskontoret's latest investigation was not least that so many fewer people today become relevant for adoption. Basically, living conditions have developed in the countries in which it was adopted in the past, which means that this does not happen. This, of course, places other demands on the municipalities investigating, on the authority responsible for supervision and on the adoption agencies when you have a few adoptions spread out in many different countries. What knowledge, then, needs to be guaranteed in order to have legal certainty as well? How many supervisory missions is the Authority capable of dealing with quality? These are issues to discuss further, and they are not about the historical, but about where we are today and onwards, which is of course also important. The parties that believe that we are going to review are also keen to look at how we get a future order that makes any international adoptions legally secure. What can we do further, and what is still in our system?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-53	Madam President, I would like Now we seem to have changed, but it is a pity that the reasons that have been pointed out for not doing an investigation have not come to light earlier during Question Time and so on. The view of adoptions changes around the world, and it is important that we keep up. It is good that changes are being made continuously, and we will of course continue to do so, including on the basis of an investigation into how international adoptions have been carried out. Once again, in the adoption scandals, we see how the most vulnerable people have taken the fall. It is poor people, indigenous people and those without a social safety net who are exposed. According to the conventions that Sweden has ratified, we must respect the child's right to retain his or her identity, including citizenship and family relations. Where a child is illegally deprived of his or her identity, appropriate support shall be provided for his or her rapid restoration. We shall also ensure that the same rules apply as for national adoption. It's important things to have with you. The possibilities to find answers and a truth to relate to are usually limited, says an adopted one. There are shortcomings in society's ability to deal with the special vulnerability of adopted people. At the same time, adopted are over-represented in the statistics for suicide, suicide attempts and psychiatric care. Other statistics also show that they face many difficulties in life. The parliamentary inquiry in Chile has been completed and, as I said, a criminal investigation is under way. There are over 600 Swedish cases here. Over 2,000 adoptions have been carried out from Chile to Sweden. That's a lot of kids. Many of the adopted persons have testified that it is thanks to other adopted and organisations, such as Chileadoption.se, that they have been told that the investigation is ongoing and that they must personally submit their actions in order for their own case to be included. They have also helped each other to find out what to do. It's not simple, especially in a foreign language. It is certainly a good thing that the government has set aside a few million in support of people seeking roots and receiving call support, as the Minister also points out. However, this is a system error, and we cannot just put this on the individual, but must have system solutions. It becomes unreasonable for the individual to bear this burden alone. How well does the Minister feel they have informed and helped those concerned? There's a lot of question marks here with the people I've been talking to. And I don't think I can find much of it in the Minister's reply. Surely we have a responsibility to do everything we can to help these people get redress. Let us remember that there are many victims in this. Behind each adoption and number are many sufferers: adopted, parents who have lost their children and adoptive parents who feel cheated. I'm gonna share a story with you. On Sunday, August 14, 1977, Patricia Sanchez arrived at the hospital in Temuco. She came to the hospital alone and gave birth to a son late in the evening. She was alone in Temuco and studied, so she had contacted the city's social services to see if she could get help with baby - care. In this way, the social assistant knew she was alone. Patricia had one day with her son. On the morning of August 16, a nurse arrived at Patricia in the hospital and announced that her son had died. Everything went black, and Patricia has a hard time remembering exactly what she did then. But she somehow made it home to her family in her hometown. Patricia did not recover from the death of her firstborn son. Every year in mid - August, she dressed in black and mourned her son. Life went on, and she formed a family. The son was always present in the family as the firstborn who had passed away, and she never got him back.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-66	Madam President, I would like It is of course terrible to listen not only to this story but also to other similar stories. I will not mention any specific organisation, but there are a number who have spent a lot of time describing the realities people have experienced. Just as Jon Thorbjörnson says, it is a trauma for those who are affected, not only for the individual who has been adopted and is seeking his origin, but also for those who in place in Chile, for example, are waiting and wondering what happened. That is why it is important that the criminal investigation that is being carried out in Chile should do everything in its power to sort out what happened on the ground. What we can then add and which I am absolutely convinced that all parties are keen to review is how the adoption agencies have actually gone about. Mr Thorbjörnson asked whether the government will take responsibility for informing everyone adopted from Chile to Sweden that the adoption may have been carried out on illegal grounds. I don't know if I missed answering this-- it wasn't my intention. There are a number of different aspects to this issue. One is, of course, the ethical aspect, that perhaps not everyone wants to be contacted, that not everyone feels the same need and that perhaps not everyone appreciates being contacted by the government on such a matter. The second is the fact that there is not a single register that allows the government, and for that matter MFoF, to contact the individual individuals. What the state really can do, should do and also does is to inform the public in the way that happens on MFoF's website. I realise that not everyone has access to the same information, but with regard to the attention received, I hope that the knowledge that it is adopted and the information given on the MFoF website have given both attention and knowledge to the affected person. I do not think that the question of seeking origin should be reduced by saying that it is a good thing that the government has set aside a few million. I would say that it is very important that we have set aside millions of aid in order to be able to seek their origins. Translations and documents can be helped, and conversational support is available for those in need. This is what can help the individual to sort out what is perhaps thought to be irregularities. Sometimes it is confirmed, in some cases it does not turn out to be irregularities and in some cases there are certainly still issues where it is not always easy to sort out the individual story. Again, the government has offered Chile assistance. It is also important to be helpful to individuals who want to seek their origins. We are not going to make that issue any less. Then it is not that no one has been involved in this matter. I have had interpellation debates with other representatives in recent years and have also answered questions. Then it will be very short, Mr Thorbjörnson, when we stand in this Chamber – one minute's question and one minute's answer. But there is no doubt that these are issues that have involved various representatives, for various reasons. The agency and the department have had several meetings with the organisations of the adopted. I would like to say once again that when criminal investigations were initiated in Chile, our focus, which I think was reasonable, was to assist with the criminal investigation. This applies to those individuals who needed to assist in the investigation, and we also offered, via the Chilean Embassy, to help on the Swedish side with the criminal investigation itself. Now the years have passed, and there is no doubt that this takes much longer than we would like, much longer than was anticipated in Chile. Then I think we should look at what a review might look like. The fact that there is broad support in this House is only positive.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-76	Madam President, I would like I do not belittle any millions used to support the adopted. Nor do I belittle those who seek their origins, who want to know what has happened, who want an investigation and who want redress. Daniel, who I talked about earlier, was five weeks when he came to Sweden. His big sister remembers. He was so small and so sad and angry that he hurt himself by hitting his head against the floor and wall. He grew up with the story that his mother didn't want him. But eventually, with the help of his big sister, he got to the bottom of where his mother was. They looked for the roots and went from feeling bad to feeling good, when he finally managed to wind up the story and meet his mother. This should not be minimized, but they need all the help and support they can get. The Director General of MFoF, who is the supervisory authority responsible, replied last week to the question of whether it is possible to guarantee that today's adoptions to Sweden are legally secure and ethical. He answered that with a clear no. He also said that he fears a future in which more irregularities are discovered. So we have had illegal adoptions for several decades, we have problems right now and there are predictions of more problems in the future. Obviously, there are problems with international adoptions. The problems we have seen so far are terrible. This applies to people – children. I think it's very important that we don't limit an investigation to the second half of the 20th century. I don't think that's good enough. Adoptions in the 21st century also need to be investigated. Those affected by this legal breakdown have been working on this for many years, for decades. They've been in agony, hesitated, felt bad, grieved. Investigate all adoptions! So far, I haven't seen any evidence that all adoptions in the 21st century are legally secure. So investigate, investigate now and investigate properly! What do the Minister and the Government intend to do to ensure that all international adoptions in the future are ethical and legally secure? And when do we get to see an investigation? No más silencio!
i-KgLx9EzdSmnUCBrqrjCdo6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jon Thorbjörnson, for the dialogue! I do not think we should exaggerate the differences between parties, which do not really exist. It is not so common that all eight parties in the Riksdag, in fact with the same focus, think that one should review something. I do not think anyone should have to be in any doubt that there will be a review. To get to the bottom of every single adoption, however, I think is to promise too much. Perhaps I should have said this in a previous speech, so that Jon Thorbjörnson could replicate it. It's about reviewing what our adoption agency looks like and how it's been organized, and then we'll have to look at the forms of how far you get. When it comes to giving the individual the opportunity to get to the bottom of this and not only to look for their roots but also to sort out any irregularities, I would strongly argue that the possibility that MFoF has not been used to a great extent so far. In 2020, 80 people chose to contact the agency to get support in seeking their origins, and there will of course be opportunities for more people to apply for such support as they both learn that the support exists and that the interest may awaken. Finally, I would like to comment on the issue of guaranteeing. We are, of course, doing everything we can to ensure that municipalities investigate, that adoption agencies are authorised and licensed and that they authorise and supervise each country. The involvement of both municipalities, organisations and government agencies has been assessed by Statskontoret as the best model. Then it can really be discussed how many municipalities are going to investigate this and how many countries are going to adopt from, when the international adoptions are so few and one should be able to do supervisory trips and so on. Is it a reasonable organisation and structure that we have when international adoptions are so few? We will also have to come back to this issue.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-86	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me on what basis undocumented people would have a greater right to receive vaccines, because he believes that they can go ahead of Swedish citizens as well as people with a residence permit in phase 4 and whether I will take any steps to change the order of priority. In accordance with the Health Care Act, vaccinations are carried out as necessary. This is why Sweden's oldest citizens are vaccinated first, together with the health and social care personnel who work close to them. This is also why people in medical groups at risk are very high priority. I assume that we can keep this in mind during the debate. I also assume that we remember that covid-19 is an infectious disease. Vaccination work needs to reach the entire population, and specific measures may therefore need to be targeted at different groups, not least to people who, for various reasons, may find it difficult to follow recommendations on anti-infectious measures. These difficulties mean that such persons are at increased risk of becoming infected and spreading the infection further. This may include people with dementia, people with cognitive or mental disabilities and people living in socially vulnerable situations. On the other hand, the intention has never been that whole groups of people should be given priority from the point of view of socio-economics, as the Swedish Public Health Agency has also clarified. However, as said in such groups, there may be people with a particularly high risk of becoming infected or spreading infection. Then society needs to ensure that they can be vaccinated. It is important here that regions continue their efforts to identify such persons. A high level of vaccination cover protects us all.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-91	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Hallengren for his reply. The Public Health Agency has now backed up. When I wrote this interpellation, this recommendation was left on their website. But the next day, they decided to back down. My contribution to this debate will therefore not be that long. But I'm still going to problematize why there was such agitation. There is a great deal of concern out there among our elderly and among those people who are at increased risk. I don't know what it's like to be in government now to deal with this crisis. But if I look outside, I have very many opinions as moderate and from the opposition. But I also understand that dealing with a pandemic is not easy. It is good that the Minister makes a strong rejection and clearly believes that it is the medical need that should govern. It is important that not only regions but also municipalities and the government have outreach activities when it comes to socio-economically vulnerable groups. It can be people who are homeless, people who have substance abuse problems, people who do not have a permanent residence, etc. With an outreach activity, you can identify whether there are medical needs or not. This disease can strike at all of us. Madam President, I would like What the criticism was about was saying that a whole group would take precedence over general vaccination. For example, a 25-year-old illegal immigrant would automatically take precedence over a person in his 60s who is not at increased risk. But now they've backed away from it. I am therefore not going to make a great deal of policy out of this either. I thank the Minister for taking a strong stand against the recommendation of the Public Health Authority and for the need, age and medical status to determine when priority is given to vaccination and not that one belongs to a particular group.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-97	Madam President, I would like Arin Karapet asked in his interpellation on what basis as undocumented persons are considered to have the right to receive vaccination. Then this is adjusted a little bit, because the Public Health Authority in its clarification nevertheless says that there should be a medical priority. However, I cannot stop wondering what this issue really stems from, apart from a reference to some kind of public concern in society. The basis for working with undocumented people is humanitarian, medical and human, isn't it? Those who have followed the development of the pandemic during the year can conclude that it is a contact infection. People have always been urged to avoid contact. Then you can ask: How is it to live in Sweden as paperless? Whether it is illegal or not, we have undocumented people in this country. Is it easy to follow the recommendations? In which professions do undocumented workers work? They work in contact professions. In which professions is the greatest infection? Well, it's in the contact professions. Can they work from home? No, they can't, because they usually work in food distribution and various service professions. Can they stay home for the slightest symptom? No, they can't because they're basically day laborers. Staying home means that there will be no money that day. And that means they choose not to eat that day. There is therefore a great reason for them to go to work even in case of symptoms because they are not part of the general protection system. How do these people live? Probably they do not live in large and spacious villas but very crowded. And how do they transport themselves? Probably not in your own car, but collectively. All that I describe are things that contribute to increased risk of infection, increased risk of infecting others and increased risk of dying. To my knowledge, this virus does not seem to take into account legal status, skin colour or citizenship, but it is contagious regardless. If we want to stop this infection, we need society to work to identify and vaccinate people who are at extra high risk. And undocumented is obviously such a group. Not all undocumented people find themselves in the situation I described, but I think most of them do. As the Minister described exemplaryly, health care should be provided as necessary. I thought I heard that Mr Karapet nevertheless believed that health care should be provided as necessary. Otherwise, the tone of this interpellation might suggest that it is some other principle that should apply. However, it may be useful for the honourable Member to clarify whether there are other principles governing the distribution of healthcare. Is it only needs that should apply, is it also legal status, for example?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-103	Madam President, I would like An interpellation can be withdrawn. Nevertheless, I thank Mr Arin for not withdrawing the interpellation. I think it is wise for us to clarify the matter and to exchange a few words on it in Parliament's Chamber. You can choose to use the word "back" about what the Public Health Agency did. However, it was an unfortunate formulation which was rather described as a whole group. But there are still individuals. And it is important to look at medical status, medical condition and age, but also socio-economics and vulnerability. I believe that our regions working in health care know that there are many different factors that need to be taken into account if we are to make the whole population want and be prepared to vaccinate in this case. Perhaps the same information for everyone is not enough, and perhaps the same information translated into different languages is not enough, but rather a little different ways of working. In fact, there are quite a few party friends of Mr Arin who, in connection with this attention to the order of priorities, opposed in principle the role of one's socio-economics. I've answered such questions too. It would therefore be welcome if the honourable Member were to stress the importance of taking socio-economic considerations into account in health care. For example, we have the Rinkeby project, which involves working with child health care in a much more direct way in a vulnerable area and following up the child during the first year with both home visits and other things to make sure to create a good relationship and not least talk about how important it is with child vaccinations and much more. We need to work in different ways to reach the entire population. We must understand that it is not a question of someone just going before someone else. It's a break that needs to be laid aside. The order of priority is very clear in terms of age and medical status in medical diagnosis and condition. But I would like to stress how important it is that we do not turn a blind eye to the socio-economics. It is well known today that there are seven years in life expectancy between Skärholmen and Danderyd. It says something about health not being equally distributed in the population. This is something that needs to be carried along in a context like this. If we are to reduce the spread and get rid of covid-19 in society, and if this pandemic is ever to pass, a very large proportion of the population must vaccinate. Then it is not enough to do it in the simple way and allow those who want to vaccinate, but it is hard work not only in practical terms – to hire many nurses who vaccinate effectively. It is also a question of thinking about how we can reach different groups in society. I think, as I said, that the regions are actually used to this, but I do not think it would hurt us to emphasise together that this is a perspective that we should not lose out because some of the effects of vaccination are lost.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-110	Madam President, I would like I have to take back a little; I told you I would stay brief in this debate. I think it is important that if you have sent in an interpellation and the Minister has taken the time to reply, you should be in this House. You have 24 hours and you shouldn't cancel at the last minute. I think you can come here and thank you for the answer. Madam President, I would like Now Nicklas Attefjord came into the debate and asked a question about undocumented people. I think we have different views on immigration and that is where it begins. Those who have the legal right to stay in Sweden – those who have a residence permit, a work permit or a permanent residence permit or are Swedish citizens – should take precedence. But if there is a medical need where your life may be in danger, you should not be denied medical care. If you have been in a traffic accident, you should not be given priority after someone else. You're going in because it's about life and death. The problem arises when you talk about groups. Let's take an example, and then I'll start from myself. I have foreign background. My mother has lived, lived and worked honestly in Sweden since 1984 or 1985. She's diabetic. She's in phase three. So we have a person in his 24s who is in Sweden illegally. Are the two of them going to argue about the same queue? That's the problem when you break a wedge into society. Socio-economic factors should also play a role. I understand that things are problematic in Rinkeby. I myself have lived in crowded quarters. But it is also a problem that for a year weddings have been held in Södertälje, which is also a socio-economically vulnerable area. As a Swede with a foreign background, I see for myself that what happens when you make decisions like this is that people like me, and many others who do their duty, take the fall when someone who wants to feel kind or humanistic thinks that we should let someone who does not do the right thing get ahead of themselves. But being too kind can fight back, and whoever pays the bill is not people like Nicklas Attefjord. It is people with my looks who try to do the right thing every day and are genuinely tired of constantly being misjudged, because you constantly make exceptions and you don't stick to the rules. People who are in Sweden illegally should not be in Sweden, but now we are in a pandemic and should not open up that part. My question is: Why should a fully working 23-year-old who is in Sweden illegally and who does not have an increased risk or any medical need according to Nicklas Attefjord be allowed to go ahead, while a person in his 60s, without an increased risk but in old age, ends up in the general vaccination? That is what strikes a wedge in society, and that is why I am pleased that the Minister is actually saying clearly that it is the medical need that should take precedence. If there is then some illegal paperless immigrant in Sweden who has increased risk, yes, then that person must go ahead of people like me who are perfectly healthy. I don't have a problem with that. The problem is when you take a whole group. Now, however, the Public Health Agency has backed up. Thank you, Madam President.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-118	Madam President, I would like Now it became clear that it is the principle to do the right thing to govern. Then you should have access to the system. I can understand that principle. It does, however, partially depart from what Swedish health care is based on, namely that care should be provided as needed. Like the honourable Member, I have a mother who has lived in isolation for a very long time and is at home waiting to receive this vaccine dose. I understand that's a problem. It's a problem for everyone, because it's been really hard for a really long time. If we look at undocumented as a group and at what I described as the different layers, it is nevertheless the case that they are more vulnerable. They have a greater risk of being infected themselves, and they have a greater risk of infecting others. That's the very reason why I think that the Swedish Public Health Agency is really thinking right: that you have to identify and work proactively and outreach with groups to reduce the infection. That's what it's all about if we're gonna get rid of the pandemic. When you read the Member's Twitter feed, it seems, speaking of breaking in wedges, there are also other issues that are more important. It's about us and them. It's about those who don't have the right.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-122	Madam President, I would like I guess we'll get back to formality. If you have asked an interpellation and received an answer, you should go to the Chamber. But I think that if you have an interpellation and the conditions change the day after maybe you withdraw it. That's what I thought. At the same time, I have great respect for the fact that the issue can certainly be discussed in any case, and this discussion well shows that we may not be so far apart as social media sometimes seem to be. The unfortunate thing was that it was described as that whole groups as undocumented would take precedence. The next day, the Public Health Agency clarified and wrote that in the third phase, priority is also given to groups that may have difficulties in complying with recommendations on disease protection measures for various reasons. This also applies to people who live in socially vulnerable situations, such as homeless or undocumented people. The examples have now been removed, because they lead the idea wrong. What we want to emphasise is that it is about age, medical conditions and socio-economics. It is therefore important to consider not only whether the person himself can suffer severe illness but whether the person in question can also help to infect others, because that is what you want to get at. But I think it is very good if this interpellation debate, if anything, can make it clear that in that case it is an individual assessment that is made. We can still take the opportunity to say that it is fantastic that we stand here and discuss vaccines and that we in Sweden are in the happy situation that a lot of people want to be vaccinated. It is not a question of someone else being allowed to do it before, but one is actually eager to get one's vaccine. This applies, of course, to the mothers of both Members, to my mother and to all the other elderly people who really must feel that they are the ones who should go first. It is as we have said from the beginning: first of all, it is special housing, those who have home care and those who work in those businesses, and then it is age that governs. I therefore hope and believe that all citizens over the age of 65 or 70 will feel that it is approaching so that you can break the isolation that you have had to live in for a very long time. I also find it gratifying that we all agree, with perhaps a little different expressions, that we have care as needed. Of course that's what's supposed to run. You shouldn't feel that there's any hesitation there. Even in the case of vaccines as part of health care, we will do our utmost to ensure that the spread of infection is reduced and that the pandemic ends. We will both protect the individual against severe disease and ensure that our society is protected from further transmission. Thank you very much for the interpellation!
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-129	Madam President, I would like In these times, it may also be nice to show some emotion. I'm an emotional person, so that means I'm in a very good state. Thank you for a good debate! I would like to send a message to the Minister for Social Affairs and everyone in the government: raise your phone and call Johnson & Johnson, Astra Zeneca or Pfizer and tell them that we want to procure ourselves directly, because we need to get vaccines as soon as possible! I also wish you a nice day and a nice working week.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-132	Madam President, I would like I thought: What should I devote my last speech to? I've already said most of it. But now the honourable Member raised completely new questions, so I'll take the opportunity to take that ball. I would like to stop this thought in all those who believe that there are large stocks in different places waiting and that the question is just which country, which ministers and which prime ministers and presidents have the right telephone number. That's not how it works, it's produced vaccines like never before. Above all, we in the industrialized world are very concerned; this is where we have – and will have – vaccines in abundance. We have made sure that we build production facilities before the vaccines are approved; this is what increases our volumes. The government's vaccine coordinator Richard Bergström is one of the most active, I would say, in the European countries. We should certainly not be ashamed of that, but I am very proud that we have taken on this task together with the rest of the European Union. We should not think that it would have gone much better if we in Sweden had done this ourselves. We have, of course, put in quite a lot of financial resources in these different companies to facilitate their research, to enable them to produce and to build production facilities. We have jointly tried and made sure that we have got these agreements in place. Then it is clear that we also want the vaccines that have been agreed on, but I do not think the pharmaceutical companies feel completely happy and satisfied that they cannot deliver under contract. It does not strengthen their shares, if the term may be used, but it is clear that they have a great will both to make it first and to show that they have the best vaccine and to show that they can deliver and live up to our expectations. Of course, we want more vaccines. I assume that in Sweden we get the vaccine to which we are entitled and that we contribute to the construction of production facilities so that the volumes come up. Once we have used the vaccine, we must ensure that we do not let anything be done and that we do not allow people to take the lead in the order of priority. We must also share with other countries, because if the pandemic is to end, it is not enough to vaccinate the Swedish population.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-138	Madam President, I would like Alexander Christiansson has asked me what I and the government intend to do to overcome the negative development and insecurity that is growing among small businesses. Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the security of the country's entrepreneurs, whether I believe that the companies affected should be replaced more than today by crime and whether I intend to take any measures to that end. The government takes serious account of crimes against companies and has taken – and takes – a number of measures that contribute to creating a safer environment for individual entrepreneurs and that reinforces criminal protection. One example is the law on access bans to shops that has just entered into force. It means that a person can be prohibited from accessing and staying in a store if, due to special circumstances, there is a risk that he or she will commit a crime in the store or seriously harass someone who is there. At the government's initiative, a new qualification basis has also been introduced in the penal provisions on gross theft and gross heeling. The basis for the qualification aims to ensure that systematic elements of theft and heel crime have a greater impact when assessing whether the crime is serious. In addition, attempts, preparation and conspiracy of heeling have been criminalized. In order to tackle fraud, for example with fraud invoices, a penalty for gross claims fraud has been introduced in the past. In addition, a new Camera Protection Act has been introduced to facilitate trade security work by removing the requirement for authorisation. The Police Authority has also been commissioned in its regulation letter for 2021 to describe how the work on camera surveillance is conducted and developed in order to provide the Government with a thorough basis on how it works today. Another important piece of work is, of course, the historic effort that the government is making to expand the Police Authority. At the turn of the year, the statistics showed that there have never before been so many police officers and civilian employees in the Police Authority. The figures also show an increase in the number of police officers in all police regions of the country in 2020. However, regardless of the resources spent on the police, it will be difficult to monitor and investigate all crime against entrepreneurs. A key element, therefore, is the prevention of entrepreneurs themselves. The concept Safe in Store concept, which aims to prevent theft in stores, is a good example of preventive cooperation between police and entrepreneurs. In order to improve the conditions for crime prevention, the Government has also developed the National Crime Prevention Programme. One of the objectives of the programme is to raise the awareness of the actors who manufacture, sell, hold or otherwise are responsible for theft-seeking objects about how they can contribute to reducing the risk of crime. If you as an entrepreneur suffer from crime, it is important to report it. Injuries caused by a crime shall primarily be compensated by the offender. Insurance also provides protection for those affected. The measures taken by the government and the Police Authority are expected to lead to more effective law enforcement and greater security for the country's entrepreneurs. However, I will continue to follow this issue closely.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-150	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of Sweden's companies, 96 per cent are micro-enterprises with 10 employees or fewer. Together with medium-sized enterprises, this group represents 99.9% of companies – it is a large proportion of our business community. Four out of five jobs are created by small businesses, which means that they play a crucial role in the Swedish labour market. Today we have a situation that does not look so good. The studies carried out by various professional organisations clearly show that developments are going in the wrong direction. There is a strong increase in insecurity, and for the first time the issue of security is the most important issue in the survey that the Entrepreneurs presented a few weeks ago. Small businesses cannot be separated from society as a whole – insecurity is growing among the population in general, which we see as a problem. Tragic figures from the Entrepreneurs' Survey say that 84 percent of the victims of crime experience a decrease in confidence in the judiciary, that 79 percent have received increased costs for crime prevention and that 42 percent say that exposure to crime results in planned investments having been postponed or absent altogether. The proportion of entrepreneurs who have been thinking about closing down due to the current crime has increased from 13 to 19 per cent. The notification propensity has decreased to 32%. Before I received the honorable assignment in the Swedish Parliament in 2018, I worked as an agent in the fashion and sports industry and was then privileged to travel around Sweden and visit many of the small businessmen who are store managers and run small stores and so on in retail around Sweden. Almost daily I came in contact with people who live with threats, harassment, theft, shoplifting, burglary, etc. Regardless of what one would like to think of this, the perpetrators of these crimes are usually disentangled groups and organised thieves from alienated areas who are largely exclusively involved in this crime. This, of course, has short-term and long-term socio-economic consequences. I believe that there are two main reasons why we are seeing the developments we are currently seeing. Number one is the foreign leagues. Customs' press service itself believes that the toothless Swedish customs are being used openly by criminals who see Sweden as a smorgasbord for foreign leagues. Combined with freedom of movement, this is a disaster. I would also like to stress that many experts believe that the effort on customs announced by the government will have little effect because it is simply too weak. However, it may serve as a basis for another debate. Number two is increased organized crime and gangs from alienation areas that live robbers. Major immigration and failed integration have created a breeding ground for exclusion and social exclusion that has led to gang crime and crime. Denial of the fact that migration policy has not benefited Sweden has put a heavy burden on society's shoulders. The unhealthy climate of debate has brought with it a stigmatisation in which those who tried to highlight the problem were called ugly words instead of being listened to. Without a proper analysis of the basis of the problem, the right measures cannot be found, I think. The government's ambition that we should have more police officers and more authority for the authorities is good. We see no problem with it at all, but we support it. However, the risk is that it will be a bit like putting a plaster on a broken leg if you do not see the foundation, or as a hole in the bucket you throw resources into. My question to the Minister is whether he shares the problem analysis that I have just explained. If not, what does the Minister really think is the reason for the destructive development we are currently seeing?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-161	Madam President, I would like As if Sweden's hard-working entrepreneurs didn't have it tough enough because of regulatory red tape, unjustified bureaucracy, high taxes, insecure electricity supply and the pandemic and its consequences, they also need to worry about and spend time and energy on preventing and at worst exposed to crime. In my interpellation, I present figures from a report from Företagarna, Sweden's largest business organisation for small and medium-sized enterprises. The report is a frightening reading, Madam President. The share of entrepreneurs experiencing insecurity due to low police presence has increased from 41% to 51% between 2017 and 2020. It is also stated that the proportion of entrepreneurs exposed to crime has increased from 30% to 36% over the same period of time. Among enterprises with employees, every other enterprise has been exposed. The level of exposure to crime has increased particularly in the trade and manufacturing sectors. These figures account for a bleak reality that Mikael Damberg and the government have been unable to deal with. However, the figures should be supplemented by cases from reality, which we regularly get to know through the press. Trader Andreas Bylger suffered from gang crime in his Ica store in Sätra, which led him to acquire security guards to protect himself and his staff. Among other things, the guards followed employees to the subway or all the way home to ensure their safety. This is a means that several have felt compelled to use, despite the costs associated with it. Another Ica dealer, Anders Waller in Söderhamn, describes how abuse and threats are everyday in his shop. He's been personally assaulted twice in the store. Alaaeldinn Elhandawi recently chose to abandon his bike shop in Malmö after threats. To Sydsvenskan he says, "I left Iraq for security." But now I feel that I have no security at all. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like These are only a sample of all the traders that fit within the figures I have reproduced. Ultimately, Sweden's reputation is a good country to invest in. In addition, the consequences would be disastrous if drifting Swedes refrained from running their own business as a consequence of crime – like Elhandawi. It is therefore of particular concern that one in five traders have considered total closure due to crime, according to the Entrepreneurs report. Against this background, Madam President, Mikael Damberg's reply seems strange. Without touching at all the report and its contents, Mikael Damberg is only talking about some of the measures he and the government have taken. Do not misinterpret: I am not opposed to those measures. On the contrary, I am pleased that the government, albeit late in the day, has chosen to adopt parts of our criminal policy and that some improvements have taken place. Having said that, however, it is quite obvious, on the basis of the report I have presented, that the development of crimes against companies is going in the wrong direction, something that Mikael Damberg does not seem to want to know. I therefore ask Mikael Damberg whether he has read the report from the Entrepreneurs, whether he shares their picture of problems and how he intends to solve the problem.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-172	Madam President and Minister Mikael Damberg! I am meddling in this debate, because if something is close to my heart, it is precisely entrepreneurship and the problems faced as an entrepreneur. I have my background in the haulage industry, and we have discussed the problems on the road several times. I will bring this up again. I do not have a watch in the speaker's chair, Madam President, so I do not see the time.
i-120a1a8e4f6eabb0-0	I see your watch. You've got 3:30 left. ) Wow! Let me see the wall clock. One of the problems, and we have discussed it several times, is the possibility of logistics, of the criminal activity being supplied with transport. The basic condition for the criminals is that they can carry out their transport of the stolen. My colleagues mentioned the problems that entrepreneurs face. The entrepreneurs' report is eerie reading. If this continues, we will have a huge problem with entrepreneurship in Sweden. The Government's response speaks – as usual, I was about to say – about the investment in the Police Authority. But that investment does not go down the road, and it is on the way that we must slow down the ability of criminals to develop their activities. I was chairman of the transport safety group in Västra Götaland for a number of years. It was a close collaboration with the police and county criminal in Västra Götaland at the time. There we mapped out the problems of crime and were able to see how these networks operated and created financial resources to invest in other criminal activities. Today, there is no authority out on the road that can slow down and put obstacles in the way of criminals. As my old chief of traffic police says: After eight o'clock the E6 is open down over the Öresund Bridge, and there you can drive out what you have stolen earlier in the day. It's usually an order job. It is cars or excavators that are to be transported out. I've been looking at Alarm Service's website. You can go in there and see how things are right now. Then this is the case: In 2020 a total of 252 construction machines, tools and tractors were called for in Sweden. Of these 160 were machinery, 39 were tools and 53 were tractors. Of the 199 wanted machines, 48 were recovered during the year, which means that 151 machines, or 75%, are still missing. Of 53 tractors wanted, 25 have been recovered. This means that 53% of tractors are still gone. Now we're talking about machines so big you can't put them in your pocket and carry them out. It takes heavy vehicles to get rid of the stolen goods. Then it is the illegal traffic in Sweden that constantly provides transport services to criminals. Here the government must understand the connection between the crime we are surrounded by and how it gets its nutrition, which ultimately knocks away the bones of serious business. This is an extremely serious situation. I've talked about it several times and I feel like I'm going to get to go on. After all, we have a debate later today where we will also be discussing this. I would like answers to the Government's view of this problem.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-186	Madam President, I would like As former Minister of Enterprise and Innovation, these issues are important to me. They are therefore not only important now in my current role as Minister of the Interior, but I previously worked very much with small businesses, business development and investments in Sweden. I met with traders who have been victims of crime for a long time and looked at the situation of fraud, which for many entrepreneurs has indeed grown over a number of years and also at threats and violence that occur in certain sectors of the economy. These are important questions. Besides having a criminality discussion linked to this, it is actually the case that small and medium-sized enterprises are in many jobs engines, integration engines and growth creators in the Swedish economy. They are therefore important to work with, and that is why we say as we say in the answer from the government, i.e. that these are important questions that we really address. I'd like to reconnect a little bit to my time as Minister of Enterprise. Then I had several meetings when I listened carefully to the answers when I asked: What do you think makes a difference in reducing the vulnerability to you as an entrepreneur? What's the most important thing? In principle, number 1 in all the calls I had more present police officers, that is, police officers nearby that you can build a relationship with, were having contact-building work with so that you know that the reports you make also lead to results. It creates enormous confidence when it works. That's the first thing a lot of people said. Many also talked about the problems of camera surveillance. You had problems with long lead times before you got it approved, even though you wanted to use cameras. It was felt that both the staff and their own operations could be more secure with cameras. A third point, highlighted by many within the Swedish minority, was the question of a ban on access. It has been important for activities where some individuals consistently came back, either under the influence of drugs or from some kind of gang environment, and frightened staff or contributed to theft. There were also some discussions about increased penalties for this systematic crime suffered by entrepreneurs, and there was a discussion about international theft leagues. Now it's up to me to rank – it's possible that entrepreneurs would say it was a little different – but it was around these areas that discussions often moved. I replied as I did because we have now grazed quite a few of these areas. Only yesterday several new laws came into force. It is about the ban on access, which I know is very sought after in Swedish trade, as well as the increased penalties linked to systematic thefts and fences. The most important job we do, however, is police growth. Then we have also abolished the permit requirement for camera surveillance in stores, for example. We have therefore taken several steps, but there are still gloomy figures and a development of reality that needs to be reversed. I believe that we have really listened to what the business community has called into question and worked on several of those issues in order to work with them systematically. Yes, I have also taken note of this report from the Entrepreneurs. I have read many of the Entrepreneurs' reports. I have also taken note of the NTU, which is the largest survey, with 74 000 people, who measure confidence in various institutions. It should also be added that confidence in the police continues to increase in society. This may be because the police are now more offensive and can be seen in more places even if growth is far from complete. I also looked at the Swedish Commerce Federation's latest safety barometer which partly shows different figures and that the probability of registration actually increases in Swedish trade. That is important to follow, because if you do not report a crime, it is very difficult for the police to be able to take action and get to grips with the problems.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-196	Madam President, I would like I agree with that, and it is quite clear that the efforts that have been made linked to more policemen, camera surveillance and so on are crucial to curbing this. It is not really where the contradiction lies for me, but I wanted to respond to the problem analysis as to what the root of this is so that you can come up not only with the kind of measures that the Minister lifts here but also look at this in a deeper way. Madam President, I would like I am genuinely concerned about the developments we are seeing in Sweden today. That's why I'm standing here. As I grew up, my view of welfare and society was influenced by my old grandfather who grew up in the Gothenburg working class. It taught me to appreciate our common welfare and our country. Many with me feel that the social contract is being eroded more and more quickly, which is worrying. What happens then? It's a rhetorical question that I think everyone needs to ask themselves. This is what worries me. In my municipality of residence lives an entrepreneur named Jesper. He is one of many victims of crime, and he has a question for the Minister, whom I wish to read out: I and my colleague run a small construction which employs us two. Many small businesses would probably recognize themselves in long working days, paperwork and customer visits both weekends and evenings. In order to get a normal and reasonable salary at the end of the month, financial planning is required, but we have nevertheless come to enjoy our everyday life. In our business, we offer our customers a wide range of construction services that for us have involved quite large investments in machines, tools and work materials such as scaffolding, etc. The risk of being subjected to burglary and theft has always been something that we have discussed and had in our work planning to reduce both the risks and the consequences if something happens. We need to think about where we park our cars and where we store our tools during the night, for example. In recent years we have seen a clear change in the risk of being exposed to crime. Last year, 2020, we broke into our cars twice. Both times it happened in the middle of the day: one time outside the school where one of us was at a short meeting about his child and the other time outside a grocery store. On both occasions the cars were emptied of all the machines we have with us to perform our services for our customers. The first time we went in panic to a store to buy new tools. Then the seller said that it was the fourth time that a customer entered the store in the same case. We often see small transport cars from other companies that, like us, drive around with taped side doors. We have insurance policies, but they only cover part of the financial damage we have suffered. Self-risks of theft, excess risks of damaged vehicles, loss of value of machinery, accessories not covered by insurance, loss of working time for car repair, police reporting and contact with insurance companies – the list is fast long and with high totals. As far as we are concerned, this meant that at the time of the first theft there was a summer month without the possibility of taking a salary, and the second occasion in November resulted in no Christmas leave. For a self-employed person it is not only an economic issue, but the family is also directly affected by what is happening in the business. If this year would put the same strain on our business, it will be difficult to motivate our families to continue running the company. A very large part of this type of crime that has affected our business and many others in the same industry is carried out by gangs, who often operate across borders. Is it reasonable for many small businesses to pay such a high price for freedom of movement? We take our share of security responsibility through enhanced anti-theft protection on our cars, alarms on premises, documentation of inventory and planning to reduce the risks of being exposed in our operations. But what responsibility does the Minister take? And what does the Minister intend to do to remedy this in concrete terms?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-208	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to stress that several of the measures that Mikael Damberg highlights in relation to what the government has done are desirable. These are measures that we have supported and where perhaps we have had views on how they could be strengthened and suchlike, like the ban on access. But it is still the case that these come into place, just as Mikael Damberg mentions, this week, that is, more than seven years into the reign of the Promised Governments. I shouldn't have been so proud of that. As far as the density of the police is concerned, the police authorities came today with a great deal more than that. Historically, only the Swedish Democrats match the type of claim that the Police Authority claims it needs to make in order to offer competitive salaries to its staff and thus enable us to reach the police density target that the government has set. Madam President, I would like There are good reasons to problematize Mikael Damberg's praise to his own government. I explained in my previous speech how one in five traders has thought about closing their activities due to crime and that every other entrepreneur feels insecure due to low police presence. The latter, despite it, is being done to use Mikael Damberg's own words, the historic effort on the Police Authority, which he boasts of in his answer. It gets worse when I follow up with additional figures from the Entrepreneurs report. Eighty-four per cent of illegal traders report a decrease in confidence in the judicial system. You can't believe that when you take part of Mikael Damberg's proud answer. 79% have incurred increased costs for crime prevention – four out of five traders, Madam President. It is clear that crime is a burden on our business. Daniel Erlandsson, owner of the white goods chain Din Elon-butik, put it this way in an interview in Today's industry: a crime cost is not only the value of what is stolen or the price tag on the repairs. What costs most is the interruption of your business and the time you spend on everything around you as an entrepreneur. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Given this, I hardly believe that affected entrepreneurs appreciate that Mikael Damberg places responsibility on the traders themselves when he expresses in his reply: According to the Government, traders who have taken risks to contribute to society and who then suffer financially as a result of the government's failure to prevent crime, punish perpetrators and generally keep society safe should be responsible for it themselves. Of course, it is in the interests of traders to take preventive measures, as many do. But I cannot help but reflect on the fact that traders are forced to pay the bill for the government's shortcomings in this area. As if these costs were not enough, 42 per cent of respondents in the Entrepreneurs' report state that the exposure to crime results in planned investments being postponed or absent. Traders are forced to pay for preventive measures at the same time as time, energy and money are taken into account once they are victims of crime. The anxiety they experience results in a lack of investment. It is not possible to escape the fact that crime today lies like a wet blanket over business and restricts our economy and growth because of the government's failure. Does Mikael Damberg feel that he and the government have a responsibility for the problems I have repeated?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-217	Madam President, I would like I didn't get an answer to the question I asked the government. I hope I get it now. If we are to overcome the increasing role of criminals in our society, we must put a brake on their ability to create financial resources. Where do we brake them best? We do that on the road, because they use the road in their logistics. That's where they run their entire business. Companies that are affected are suffering from this. I realize you can't have a cop on every corner of the street. However, if we are to deal with this, there must be enough checks on the roads to increase the risk of detection. And there must be clear penalties, even for those who order an illegal shipment. The purpose of the illegal shipment is often different from driving the goods ordered by someone. They dump the prices and take the money somewhere else. I sincerely hope that the Government understands the link between illegal traffic and the problem we are discussing here. Serious entrepreneurs suffer from this crime. Anyone who buys this kind of transport actually sponsors the criminal activity. Then there must also be clear penalties for those who buy this type of transport and thus pave the way for criminals to create financial resources. When I was chairman of the transport safety group in Västra Götaland – it was a long time ago, nine years – this was clearly mapped by the police. Nine years have passed, and we are still discussing the problem. I sincerely hope it won't take another nine years. But it can't; it's choice 2022. Then I hope it will change.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-222	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I don't have time to answer all the questions here, Thomas Morell. But we have another interpellation debate right after this one. It will deal even more with those issues. I am absolutely sure that we can have that exchange within the framework of it. I therefore choose to concentrate a little more directly on the entrepreneurs and international theft leagues. That is the basis of these interpellations. It is not my opinion to say that entrepreneurs themselves should bear the full responsibility for combating crime or preventing crime. But when I meet Svensk Handel and Företagarna I perceive that those organisations are deeply involved in helping their members to work preventively. One of their strongest demands has been that cooperation between industries and police should work better. We have seen that it has had an impact in certain sectors. Just look at neighbourly collaboration and what effect it has had on housing break-ins around Sweden! It therefore has a clear effect, also against international theft leagues. Look at the parts of Sweden where you have had the best cooperation around boat clubs to counteract the attacks of international theft leagues on boat engines and other things! It has had a dramatic effect. It is quite simple measures and systematic work that can be done to reduce the risk of theft and exposure. I think that many, both entrepreneurs and traders, are interested in knowing how to smartly conduct crime prevention work, also for themselves to ensure that they are not exposed. I think it is important that we continue to work with it in society, including the entrepreneurs. International theft leagues are definitely one of the major problems we have in Sweden linked to the type of theft that we are discussing today. The government took an initiative and commissioned several different authorities to work together. They would account for how they can be more effective in fighting the theft leagues. You're working a lot more intelligence-based today. It works with Europol, the international networks and police organisations in Europe to work together on this. Stronger punishment was called for. We have now implemented this, not least for the housing offences, for which we tighten the penalties, and for the systematic thefts. We've been working. Soon, according to the bill that the government has put on Parliament's table, we will have a system of safe countries in place. This means that the Migration Agency can actually directly expel people who will not get the right to stay in Sweden. As a result, they cannot engage in criminal activities in the meantime. Customs has received increased resources, and now there is a proposal that Customs should also be able to stop stolen goods coming out of Sweden. There has been no authority to do that. I therefore believe that systematic work is also underway in this area to strengthen society's ability to work against international theft leagues. We also see that the mode is changing. A few years ago there was a lot of theft in homes. It's no longer as much of a housing break-up. It still exists, but it has declined quite sharply. Today, it is precisely construction companies that are hard hit by international theft leagues. Tomorrow it may be something else, since the theft leagues are good at going on what is most lucrative. I mean, we're supposed to stop them from coming in. We're gonna work intelligence-based to take out the leagues. We're going to work on prevention. We will work internationally, with Europol and other countries. We shall also ensure that customs is given increased powers. We're doing it at the same time as we're vigorously expanding the Police Authority. I am convinced that it gives us new opportunities to make Sweden much less attractive for the international theft leagues to act in. At least that's my goal as Minister of the Interior.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-231	Madam President, I would like I have full respect for the fact that it can be tough to answer questions from all three of us. From me it was a two-part question. One concerned just organised theft leagues and the business community and the retail trade, which are subjected to harassment, threats, burglaries, thefts and all that it is. There's another problem. That was my first question to the Minister, linked to my analysis of the problem. For me, it is important to understand the basis for being able to come up with the right measures. I would also appreciate it if the answer to Jesper could be clearer, so that he can be satisfied. The fact that the Social Democratic ideology does not fundamentally value private ownership and business is no wonder. The priorities of the Red Green Government bear witness to this. You act, but too slow and too weak. The workers' perspective is incredibly important, but the employer's perspective is absolutely crucial in a service economy, not least because the modern labour market does not look like Sweden during the 1970s. Basically, the government chooses to see perpetrators as victims, which is a major problem that goes like a red line through all politics. It echoes all the measures put forward to address problems that require tough action. In the end, hardworking small businesses pay the price, which I regret. That is and remains my conclusion on the matter. I thank you for the debate and take the opportunity to wish everyone in this House a pleasant week of work.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-236	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the answers that have been received so far from Mikael Damberg. There is no doubt that there are issues in which we share views. I am pleased and proud that for a long period of time the Swedish Democrats have been lying on the government so that it takes punitive measures and targeted measures to overcome the problems we are discussing today. The access ban is an example of this, but there are other things too. It is remarkable that it has been so long for the government. Nevertheless, it has been in two different constellations and for a long time in power. However, it is gratifying that now, some year before the elections and the initial election movement, we can get action in place. Several of the measures that have been launched will make a noticeable difference. I hope we can see that in future reports. However, several of the measures that Mikael Damberg states that the government intends to take in addition to those that have already entered into force, we could have initiated much earlier. Then we would not have seen the increase in crime against companies that has taken place during the government's time in power. I find this remarkable. In his latest post, Mikael Damberg talks about how civil society, business, etc. act in crime prevention. Of course, we think this is a good thing. There are obviously strong incentives for traders to act in such a way given the shortcomings of the government. In the best of worlds, we had limited the possibility of, for example, exporting stolen goods, as Thomas Morell was on. At that time, the individual Ica trader would have had to hire guards or cooperate with the local business community to take action, which has been done as a consequence of the government's failure. I would like to ask Mikael Damberg once again whether he believes that the government has a responsibility for the problems that we have discussed here today and that it has been able to arise.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-242	Madam President, I would like There are many parties who bear a responsibility that we have ended up in this situation with the crime we have in Sweden but also with Sweden's lack of police officers. For many years, far too few police officers have been trained. Nor have we taken segregation issues seriously, but have allowed some residential areas to live their own lives far too much. There would have been a need for a clear state presence and better preventive work in both school and social services in order for segregation not to have grown and spread over Sweden. I believe that many parties have a responsibility for this. I take a big responsibility for what we do here and now. We're expanding the police in a way we've never done before in history. In the areas of trade and international theft leagues, we have implemented a wide range of measures to address the problems. I share the Swedish Democrats' analysis that these measures will have an effect. It's fun that you can still hear from the Swedish Democrats that they believe that the government's policies will have an effect. When it comes to the black painting of Sweden in general, you have to be a little careful. Sweden is one of the world's most competitive countries. We have one of the world's best business climates, which is visible when an international ranking is made. We are one of the most innovative countries in the world. We have our fair share of problems, and crime is one of the problems that we are now dealing with very resolutely. But there is no question of private ownership by the Social Democrats. Then we would not have been able to create 350 000 new jobs during our reign and before the pandemic. 250 000 of them were mainly in the private sector. So these are important issues for us. It is wrong thought by the Swedish Democrats if they believe that employers' perspectives should be put against employees' perspectives here. I've met the Trade Union. There you are just as happy about the ban on access as the Swedish Commerce Federation is.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-246	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government see the connection between the large-scale theft and illegal goods traffic in Sweden and what measures are being taken. The government is working hard to enable the authorities to fight back against theft gangs and fight all forms of crime. Expanding the Police Authority is one of the government's most important measures, and we are making a historic effort on the agency. Last year we passed halfway on the road to the target of 10,000 more police workers in 2024. In the coming years, several thousand new police officers are expected to be employed around the country. This will strengthen the fight against theft gangs and ensure that there is order and order on the roads. The government has taken a variety of measures to access international crime networks. We have, among other things, commissioned the Police Authority to increase its ability to fight theft leagues and the Police Authority, the Coast Guard and the Customs Agency a joint mission to develop their cooperation in this area. After the commission has been reported, the government has indicated in the regulations of the authorities that they will report how the collaboration established regarding actions against foreign theft leagues has continued to develop. The Government has provided the Coast Guard with increased opportunities to intervene against crimes and disorder of order, even in matters that are outside the Authority's autonomous area of activity. For example, the agency can now assist the Police Authority in stopping the combination of suspected stolen goods. The Government also intends to review the Swedish Customs Agency's ability to intervene when the authority in connection with a customs control detects crimes that are outside the Swedish Customs Agency's regular operations, for example if there is a suspicion of the exit of stolen goods. A proposal is currently being prepared within the Government Office. In addition, we have set up a study on more effective police action in border-by-border areas to consider whether legislative changes should be made to improve the effectiveness of law enforcement close to borders. These may include changes in the ability to conduct camera surveillance and the power to use coercive measures such as body search and vehicle search for crime prevention purposes. The proposal of the investigation shall primarily concern the Police Authority, but to the extent justified, the proposals may also apply to other authorities, such as the Customs Agency. In order to access the international crime networks, it is also necessary to work actively with other Member States, as Sweden does within the framework of Europol, among other things. Our view is clear: the fight against theft leagues must also be a priority in the EU's law enforcement work. We know that, in some cases, stolen goods are taken out of the country by means of freight transport. This has to stop. I am fully aware that controls on rules on professional traffic also have positive effects on the detection of criminal activities, such as the transport of stolen goods. Here, the police's checks on professional traffic are very important. The fact that police officers are always involved in checks on the traffic regulations in Sweden means that the conditions are fundamentally good for detecting and prosecuting criminal activities relative to countries that allow professional groups without police powers to take the main responsibility for controlling professional traffic. The government is now reviewing how the control activities of commercial road transport are conducted. A specific investigator shall propose improvement measures, including organisational measures, in order for more people to comply with the relevant rules. I don't want to pre-empt the ongoing investigation. At the same time, I assume that the Police Authority will best allocate the large amount of resources it has received, including the fight against crime on our roads. The government will continue to give priority to measures to access international crime networks and to ensure that there is order and order on the roads.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-256	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We are continuing the debate from the previous interpellation. There is a connection to this. As everyone understands, this is an issue that is close to my heart. In its answer, the Government says: That's good. But that's not enough. It can be seen if you raise your eyes and look out into society. It takes more to get to this. In any case, society must be stronger than criminal activity. If we have an opposite relationship, it will be really difficult. We're talking about companies that are being subjected to crime. There is a strong link between criminal networks and illegal traffic. In the group I chaired, we were able to see that these networks changed their shape. One week they looked in a way, next week on a completely different one, and the third week there was a whole new constellation. They also moved over large areas – one day they were in Sweden and the next in Germany. It made it difficult for the police to catch them. The authorities must be more on their toes to get to this type of activity. Like I said, I'm from the haulage industry. It happens from time to time that drivers and truckers come to their farm and find out that there is something that used to be a truck on the farm. There have been bolted doors, front panels, headlights, lighting ramps, tyres, brake cocks and car dance tongs. The vehicles are there as spare parts for those who are driving illegally in Sweden. This happened to a couple of hauliers in Stockholm last summer, which was quite noticed in the industry magazines. Doors, entire front sections and everything were gone when they arrived in the morning. It is impossible to operate when this happens. Catalyst thefts have increased by 4,000 percent. I do not think it is young people who are on the road and need a new catalyst for their A ‐ tractor that is stealing them, but criminal networks are doing so. How do you get all the stuff that's stolen out? They're on heavy duty vehicles. This is where the criminal networks have served everything. They can only load up and go out. The measure regarding Tullverket's possibilities is toothless, says the CEO of Alarm Service. You will not get to this, but you will basically look at the goods that come in but not at what goes out. In the answer, the Government says that it should be given camera surveillance and powers to use coercive measures such as body search and search of vehicles for crime prevention purposes. If you have vehicle control on the way with personnel assigned to carry out flying inspection, you do not need to have any specific decisions to do a check on a vehicle. To ruffle a little, one can say: I own the vehicle until I'm finished with the control, and the driver must leave the vehicle at my disposal. This means that I can go through the whole car and trailer and see that it is in technically good condition and that the goods are secured. If the vehicle contains dangerous goods, this shall be included in the transport document. All of this is part of a vehicle inspection. There is no need for specific decisions on the search warrant or any such matter, but this is part of the task of checking the vehicle. If you have a vehicle control operation on the road you have a lot of free in the control of what is happening out there.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-262	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by agreeing with Mr Morell on a great deal. I usually do it in these debates. The first is that I do not think the number of police employees or police officers is enough in Sweden. Of the 5,000 we have now increased by, 4 000 are civil servants and about 1 000 police officers. Civil servants do a great deal of work on the investigation side, for example, so they are also needed in the growing organization. But it is clear that we will need several thousand new police officers in the coming years in the growth phase. We fully agree that we do not have an organisation that meets the needs of today, but we are in a phase of growth. We are in line with the plan we have for growth so far. The police are still making the assessment that it should be possible to reach this very high target. When we set the goal, there were many who ironed over it and said that it was not possible to reach. As far as international theft leagues are concerned, I also agree. They operate not only in Sweden but also in our neighbouring countries. They move between different countries. They also change the mode. Sometimes it is theft leagues that focus on housing break-ins. Sometimes it's construction. Sometimes there are wheels on nice cars. Sometimes, as was said here before, freight transport is subject to this. So it varies a little. They go after the money and what there's a market for. That is why it is important to continue working internationally, as I mentioned earlier, in the area of Europol cooperation and intelligence-based work. As I said, we have also set up an investigation into police powers in a border zone. It's about getting a more efficient system with camera monitoring and working to see flows over time. It is a new tool that I think can eventually become very interesting to get to the international theft leagues. Through good work with other countries that have had these international theft leagues, we can also actually refuse some of these people to enter Sweden at all. If you're convicted of a crime, you don't have to come in. As far as Customs is concerned, it is clear that I have seen some headlines that this proposal is toothless and so on. On the other hand, many have been asking for this for a long time. Today, the Finnish Customs must not even intervene when you suspect or discover that stolen goods are on their way out of the country. The proposal we have referred is a step on the way. The proposal means that the Customs Agency will be given new powers to stop this. I don't think the Tullverket itself will be able to stop all international theft leagues. The police and other authorities must do their part of the work. The Swedish Customs Agency still has a very important role in stopping drugs, weapons and explosives from coming to Sweden. It is also an important part of their main mission: to keep track of what comes into Sweden, so that we do not have any major problems with, for example, gang crime in our country. The Finnish Customs will continue to have its main tasks. But what we have on a proposal is a system that has not existed before. The Customs Agency will be given new powers. I think it is a good thing to be able to stop suspected stolen goods, human trafficking and money laundering from Customs as a step along the way. But it will not lead all the way. I also agree with regard to customer responsibility and the control of heavy traffic. I look forward to receiving the investigation's proposals within just a few months to see how we can get even better order and order on the roads. It's part of fighting international theft leagues. Then not all stolen goods go through heavy goods traffic. Some drive their own small cars across borders. But it's an important part of getting to the international theft leagues.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-268	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. No, it is quite clear that not everything goes on heavy wheels. There are also passenger cars used for smuggling. It's not like everything's huge when you drive. But a significant part can slip along, so to speak. Behind other goods is something that you want to get into the country, such as weapons or ammunition. It also happens that people are inserted into wooden boxes that are inside the goods. I am an instructor for YKB, i.e. a professional qualification certificate for professional drivers. There we warn the drivers of this. They should be vigilant if they take over a transport, such as a trailer in the port. Where does it come from? What does it look like? What's on board? Is there anything there that shouldn't be there? If they suspect anything, they shall notify the customs immediately. So people are smuggled in too. We're talking about theft, and that was the basis for the interpellation. But the criminal networks deal with everything that can be traded, including people. I don't know if the government saw it, but the police hit Gothenburg a couple of weeks ago and took a sex buyer every 20 minutes. Then you understand the scope of that activity. Where do these girls come from, and how have they come to Sweden? They haven't solved their ticket and taken the train. They've come another way. The extent of criminal activity and the possibility of operating over large areas must be addressed. That's where we have to put in all the resources we can. Society must be stronger than criminals. There's no other option. Then you also have to tighten the penalties. The authorities have to be on their toes, because the criminals are changing their shape. It can happen in just a few days, and they operate in a completely different place. I know a lot of the cops working on this, and they're really on their toes. But there is not always the possibility in the legislation to do anything about it, because the legislation does not really follow from time to time. But above all, you have to have enough people on the road to do something about it. We also need to get to those who order this type of transport. You have to pick up every little piece of the puzzle you can to slow down progress. Every part of this needs to be addressed. Not everything will be solved, but you can do a lot with small resources. If you only have enough people on the road, you have the whole toolbox open to do a vehicle control, which means you also go through the inside of the vehicle. If a car inspector discovers something there, the inspector can't take any coercive measures. But there is a police officer who can do that and who can contact an officer who can make a decision, either if an FÖ leader or a prosecutor does. You get very much free if you have a working roadside control. The government says in its response that it is awaiting an investigation. That's good. This will certainly lead to better control activities. But the activities we have today can also be developed and strengthened so that you have enough people on the road, which is very important. Then, once you have landed in the investigation, you have to adapt the business according to what you come up with. I don't understand why you don't invest in further development of what you have. I'll settle for it for now.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-276	Madam President, I would like It is part of the National Police Commissioner's plan to be stronger on the way as growth continues. We have had a period when we have had far too little controls. Now it's getting a little more in the right direction. Now the number of cabotage controls and other control activities is increasing. But it is still at levels that I think must be developed in order to get full force in this. Just as we were talking about, it is not just the powers of an authority we are talking about, but we need to look at the whole chain, and we need to look at the legal framework. This also applies to EU legislation where Sweden is one of the countries that is toughest in the negotiations at EU level on various transport directives and other things so that we get a stronger regulatory framework so that we can control better at home. Since then, we have previously considered that order and order on the roads are also part of this. If we get the industry level up so that there will be less undeclared work and less cheating in the sector, we will also get crime down the road. It's connected. We are determined by the government that we should clean up the business. We will have more order on the roads, and we will have a stronger police officer all over Sweden who can also intervene on the way. It makes it difficult for international theft networks but also for other criminals who actually use the road as a crime tool.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The last sentence was a little interesting. The government said the road is a crime tool. That's a very good thing. The road is the largest crime scene we have in Sweden. There is not a bad guy who runs in Adidasskor, but they ride a car, motorcycle or something else that goes a little faster than running. The road is their lifeblood. There, too, the authorities must be in order to slow down development. I'll read a little bit what Mats Galvenius, CEO of Alarmtjänst, writes: It's sad that the government doesn't take the problem of international theft leagues seriously. Ligorna's ravages cause large costs for both companies and private individuals. What is even worse, however, is that systematic theft contributes to the insecurity of society in a very tangible way. We would very much welcome the fact that the government is taking strong and effective measures to tackle the problem. It is stolen goods for about 3 billion in insurance value that roll out across borders annually. Who stands for that money? Yes, it's the country's policyholder. The country's policyholders are citizens, taxpayers, who have paid for protection in which society should go in and take action against the criminals. Here, society has not succeeded in that mission. Instead, many individuals and entrepreneurs are affected by the progress of criminals in society. There must be something here. The conclusion of the answer is not enough. The Government will continue to give priority to measures to access international crime networks and to ensure that there is order and order on the roads. - Yes, that's what it takes.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-284	Madam President, I would like I will continue to engage myself in the question of how the police work. I was in LPO Enköping and looked at how they worked there with vehicle checks from the ordinary police operations. They had achieved much better results when they worked consistently and systematically, and they would also work with research on it. When it comes to emergency services, I understand that they are frustrated that we have this kind of crime in Sweden. I would like to reverse the argument. The question is whether there is any government in modern times that has done more to access international theft networks than we are doing right now. We're expanding the police. We have steered several authorities so that this is a priority task. Now they are working harder intelligence-based in collaboration with Europol in the international part. We are now working with the secure countries list, which means that the Migration Agency can prevent some groups even entering Sweden. We stop them at the border, and we tighten the penalties. It's about housebreaking and systematic theft. We have given customs increased resources to control the border better. Now it has new powers. The Coast Guard has also acquired new powers that it did not previously have. We work systematically on those issues and move forward positions. Then I would also like it to go even faster. Much will stand and fall with the growth of the Political Authority. After all, it is the one who will do the bulk of the work in combating crime in Sweden. That is why I am returning to growth, growth and growth. This is why we have increased pressure in the fight against international theft networks in Sweden.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-289	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me if I am prepared to take up a discussion with private operators about taking over the operation of Bromma airport. The spread of the new coronavirus and covid-19 disease has affected air travel dramatically. Air traffic has fallen sharply. Even before the pandemic, we saw a reduced flight. We are still in a position where the prospects are uncertain. Both reduced flight and covid-19 affect the aviation market, both in the short and long term. Swedavia AB is tasked with operating airport operations at the ten airports included in the national base supply of airports decided by the Government. The company also has the task of actively participating in the development of the transport sector within the framework of commercialism and contributing to the achievement of the transport policy objectives decided by the Riksdag. Swedavia may not close or transfer, without the approval of the Government, any of the airports included in the national base supply of airports decided by the Government. As I mentioned to Maria Stockhaus during an interpellation debate on 1 December last year, Swedavia AB, under current market conditions and from the company's mission and business perspective, has carried out an impact assessment of the continued operation of Bromma airport. The company has presented its conclusions. According to Swedavia's assessment, under current market conditions it is not commercially justified to operate Bromma airport further. The impact of Swedavia's assessment is currently being analysed in the Government Office. It is therefore not appropriate to discuss the form of operation of Bromma airport.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-295	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. The government's handling of Bromma is a sad story. It clearly reflects the government's attitude to aviation. We have debated flights from different points of view in the past. There is one thing that we agree on. It's that the flight needs to reset. It repeats the Minister for Infrastructure every time the issue of aviation comes up in debate. The interesting thing is that the flight is changing. Heart Aerospace AB in Gothenburg is an exciting example. They expect to have passenger flights running on electricity in the air in 2026. Airbus is another example. They expect to deliver three different models of planes powered by hydrogen. This, combined with the aviation industry's own fossil-free roadmap, makes the future of fossil-free aviation look bright. Unfortunately, Madam President, the government seems to be completely ignoring the developments that are under way. Swedish domestic flights have been severely affected by the pandemic, and some regional airports currently lack almost entirely commercial traffic. Now we all see the light in the tunnel with the vaccinations that are going on, but despite that there are big questions about the future of aviation in Sweden. The question of Bromma is a clear example. The government gives one-sided assignments to Swedavia, and it could have been designed differently. The only thing that becomes public is two sides; everything else is classified. The air went out of Swedish domestic flights, and there was a great uncertainty about what was meant by this. Arlanda is difficult to accept given the rules that exist for slot-times. We have discussed a lot in the past, but my question now is about how the government intends to act if it gives a mandate to Swedavia to terminate the agreement with the City of Stockholm. If you do nothing, an important piece of the puzzle disappears in Swedish infrastructure, a missing piece that means that without expansion at Arlanda you risk the rest of the country's access to the capital. Madam President, I would like Now there is a private option that demonstrably makes completely different calculations than Swedavia and sees a good opportunity to drive Bromma further. The answer from the Minister for Infrastructure is that you are not even prepared to talk to this party. I'm going to read a quote from an article that says that despite the predicted decline in air travel following the pandemic, it's important to maintain the resources of two airports in our capital. This is to ensure accessibility throughout Sweden in the longer term. Short-term decisions based on the effect of the pandemic can have devastating consequences for those regions that lack rapid communications with other means of transport to/from Stockholm. ..................................................... This is taken from an article signed by, among others, the Chairman of the Regional Board of Kalmar, who is a party colleague of the Minister for Infrastructure. She points to the serious consequences for her region if Bromma disappears. The region's accessibility to Stockholm would significantly deteriorate. And it is not only in Kalmar that you have this worry. In many parts of Sweden where regional airports are operated, the main traffic of which goes to Bromma, there is a great deal of concern today about the communications to and from the capital.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-306	Madam President, I would like I entered the debate because I think aviation is an extremely important part of the country's infrastructure. Bromma is of great importance to the rest of the country. It feels a bit like the government is very much governed by the action of the Green Party in the field of aviation. Maria Stockhaus mentioned Kalmar and the debate article that a party colleague of the Government has signed. But there are also other parts of the country – I myself have roots up in Norrland – that are extremely dependent on fast and efficient air transport down to Stockholm. We have an elongated country that largely requires flights. The pandemic will not last forever, but will disappear – hopefully later this year. Then we can get back to a little more normal conditions. In addition, the flight is changing, and we will see both electric flights and flights running on hydrogen or something else; the future will tell. The technology leap is pretty big right now. To close down Bromma, which could become a hub in short regional traffic, seems short-sighted if you are to put it that way. It is not looking at the opportunities for the future. Bromma has tremendous opportunities to develop this type of traffic. It is not just to put in the air traffic that has been at Bromma at Arlanda. The type of aircraft that operates on Bromma is a little slower both at approach and at take-off in relation to the machines that usually operate at Arlanda. There you have jet powered machines, which are both faster in the take-off and at the approach. In addition, these machines are considerably heavier; they are 70 tons and above. It is easy to understand that there is nothing to be sidestepped with in order to make an evasive move, but there are rather strict approach rules. This creates another concern if we talk about ambulance flights and ambulance helicopters. It is said that they will be moved out to Arlanda, and it just does not work in the heavy traffic that is out at Arlanda. Then you're a little surprised that an investigation is covered up. There is a private option that sees the possibility of developing Bromma and running the business out there. But then it is covered up, so the question must be asked: Why? What is in this report that you do not want to come up in the light of day? The private option has made a completely different assessment from Swedavia in terms of profitability out in Bromma. They must have counted on a commercial basis, and they make the assessment that Bromma can continue. I would like an answer from the Government: what is it that makes you cover up the report? What is in it that cannot stand the light of day?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-315	Madam President, I would like I would like to express my special thanks to my colleague, Maria Stockhaus, who has initiated this debate. The debate on Bromma airport is very important. Bromma airport is not a Stockholm issue, it is an issue that concerns the whole of Sweden. It is quite disturbing that when Bromma is discussed in the media it is usually only the Stockholm perspective that applies. An airport is considered sufficient without taking into account the needs of the rest of the country. That is why it is very good to have such a debate that we have now. People should be able to get to the capital from small towns around Sweden within a reasonable time. It is something Bromma with its proximity to the city centre offers. Many of the major companies' headquarters, most agencies and so on, are still located in Stockholm. People who live in Skåne, or for that matter in Norrland, should be able to have family at home and still be able to commute to work. The government claims to be feminist. But let us take young women of working age with family and children as an example. They have no other choice now that they are fighting air transport. They can either stay at home or choose to move to Stockholm. And we know what the housing situation looks like in Stockholm, so it's not that simple, either. The Minister's response is very negative and pessimistic. I can agree that now, during the pandemic, travel is out of the question. But it's better for some time after the pandemic, too. Then we must restart Sweden, and then good communications are needed. Bromma's strength is, and has been, that the airport can receive smaller planes from destinations within Sweden. Furthermore, as mentioned earlier, there are plans to turn Bromma into an entirely fossil-free airport. Madam President, I would like Recently, the Swedish Agency for Traffic Analysis published a report commissioned by the Government. I have to say that it is good that the government shows insight sometimes. The report is called Elflyg – the beginning of an exciting journey – accounting for a government mission. As you know, exciting flights begin at airports. The report notes that no new airports will open as a result of the introduction of electric flights, but it is the existing airports that will be used. Given that electric airplanes are both emission-free and quiet, Bromma would fit perfectly for that type of traffic. I wonder if the Minister has any comment on that report. I also have a point of view. They have chosen to present Swedavia's excerpts from a classified report in the middle of a pandemic, where nothing is as usual. Nothing's normal. You cannot draw conclusions during such an abnormal time.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-324	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me say to the debaters that questions concerning Mrs Swedavia's report fall within the remit of Minister Baylan and the Ministry of Enterprise. You're welcome to interpelle there. What we are now debating, however, concerns the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the development of aviation. I am pleased that both Swedish democrats and Moderates nowadays mention the climate, but it can be said that this is not the case in terms of political practice. The proposals put forward by Moderates and Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament mean a brutal slaughter – so I think you should call it – on the appropriations for climate change change. Maria Stockhaus talks about an investment in fossil-free flights. But the grant for the investment in electrified transport or fossil-free aircraft has the Moderates deleted in their budget options. It is under this government that we have developed the initiative on Elise, Electric Air Transport in Sweden. This is why Vinnova and others have supported a development that means that companies like Heart Aerospace and many others now have the opportunity to industrialize and perhaps develop electric flights in Sweden, which I am very optimistic about. It is thanks to this government's initiative that we have not only an investigation into the reduction obligation and biofuels for aviation, but processes that are in the process of changing the flight. It is thanks to this government that we have Fossil-free Sweden, which, together with the aviation industry, has developed an ambitious programme for conversion, in which aviation is now in favour of changing and seeing opportunities, not least in the light of the air pollution debate that existed before the pandemic, where a lot of people were opting out of aviation because they did not think that aviation took sufficient account of climate change. Now the flight has changed sides and realizes the need for a change. It also recognises both the commercial and the industrial conditions for this. Still on the other side are the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats demanding the abolition of air tax and other efforts that hardly contribute to the transformation. I would like the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats to see the potential of changing the transport sector and that it is through increased demands, differentiated landing and landing fees and other things that we actually manage the transition and ensure that Swedish companies can grow in the market that will exist when more and more people in the world strive for sustainable and climate-neutral products. That is also why I took the initiative on the assignment to Trafikana that Boriana referred to, i.e. an investigation that would look at the conditions for electric flights. There are great opportunities here. When it comes to Bromma, I wonder about the basic issue in this context. As I interpret the Moderates, Bromma now wants to change and reduce the national base supply. Is it the intention of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats that we should change the national base supply, shrink it and privatise some of it? That's what it looks like today. I think that one should be very careful to draw large, dramatic conclusions in a pandemic when aviation has fallen by 85%. That is also why we choose to be very careful in the calculations and assessments we receive, and that is also why we look carefully not only at Swedavia's analyses but also at the various analyses of aviation operators. This is also why this government has chosen to introduce public service obligations, additional aid and substantial financial support for both the state and regional airports. We are facing emergency airports and temporary emergency airports – I think we have 27 at the moment – in order to maintain the capacity of the aircraft in a situation where we need to transport patients. So I think we have quite a lot on our feet when it comes to the conversion of aviation, unlike the Moderates.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-335	Madam President, I would like There was a lot of climate and environment in the Minister for Infrastructure's response. For the scheme, I would just like to say that we Moderates are behind the climate targets in the transport sector, with a 70% reduction in emissions by 2030, and that it will be fossil-free by 2045. Then we also add 2 billion more than the government to electrification. I would just like to point this out. Madam President, I would like I would like to start with another quote from the article that a party colleague of the Minister for Infrastructure has signed: a private alternative, Bromma Airport Group and ACR, which now shows interest in taking over the operation of Bromma... wants to make Bomma Sweden's first completely fossil-free airport. Smaller aircraft types contribute to less environmental impact. The upcoming electric aircraft are fossil-free and have far better conditions to fly on Bromma than to try to establish themselves at Arlanda. ..................................................... The issue of allowing a private operator to take over has only come up in the light of concerns that the government will decide to instruct Swedavia to terminate the contracts and thus leave Bromma. This is therefore an alternative to closure. If Swedavia is to remain, this discussion is not really relevant, but this is a question that becomes relevant if Swedavia is asked to leave Bromma. The flight at Bromma is something completely different from the flight at Arlanda. It is also dependent on being able to fly at peaks early in the morning and in the afternoon. Should the flights in Stockholm be concentrated in Arlanda, it will be more difficult for flights from the regional airports to land in Stockholm. It is becoming more difficult for smaller airlines to establish themselves, and it is becoming more difficult for smaller aircraft to find a place to start and land. When you're in the middle of a pandemic and there's an industry that goes on its knees, it's hard to understand that you're giving Swedavia the task of just watching Bromma. It cannot be understood otherwise than as a clear focus that there should be a basis for an early closure of Bromma. I respect the fact that the report itself ends up with another minister, but there are many of us who are upset by the fact that the report is kept secret. It is an undemocratic and very strange act of the government that you do not put your cards on the table. Furthermore, when we have a commercial operator who has made completely different calculations, I think that the government should take a look at how it has dealt with this issue. The question is, can you trust Swedavia's assessments? These are companies that do not have a state owner in their backs. With the risks of entering as a private company at Bromma, they still see opportunities to make this work commercially. They make their assessment although Swedavia makes a completely different assessment. It would be good if the government really tried to make contact and hear what they see that Swedavia doesn't see. It would be good if we could get this on the table. When it comes to stakeholders in this way, I think the government would at least be interested in talking to them. The day you close Bromma, it's an irreversible decision. It is not possible to start a city-by-city airport again once you have dug up the runway. I am still amazed that the government is so clearly saying that it is not even interested in discussing with anyone else about taking over the operation of Bromma. I think it would be obvious to do so at the moment. There are clear signals from the rest of Sweden, even from party colleagues to the Minister for Infrastructure, that Bromma is important for the whole of Sweden. It is not a Stockholm issue, it is important for domestic aviation and for the whole of Sweden.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It happens from time to time in various debates that the Government says that I am anti-technology. But now it was a bit the other way around. Here you have every opportunity in the world to create a fossil-free airport and develop the short regional flights with fossil-free machines, and instead you choose to discuss the closure of Bromma. It's going to be very backwards. I was in America last year looking at a flying machine. It was small. There were only six places. The engine for that machine was no bigger than that it could have been on the table in front of me. But it was an electric flight. So the technological leap is big right now, and it's fast. It will not be long before we see electric aircraft or, for that matter, hydrogen-powered aircraft in commercial operation. Having then removed Bromma as an alternative in regional traffic – Bromma airport is important for the entire country's infrastructure – is backward. In addition, there are about 1 100 ambulance flights on Bromma annually. Patients are flown from all over the country to specialist care at Karolinska in Huddinge and Södersjukhus and so on. They use the airport as a base for their fuel refuelling. This activity will also be affected. This will result in people not receiving the care they need, and people can die because they do not get fast and efficient transport. Then the question is: is the government prepared to remove 1 100 ambulance transports from Bromma?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-347	Madam President, I would like The Minister commends the introduction of the air tax as an environmental measure. That is completely wrong, because the money that airlines would have used to develop fossil-free technologies and fuels went instead to keep competitive prices. The introduction of the airline tax was indeed counterproductive. Speaking of waste of resources, which the government usually is an expert on: Swedavia has invested 1.7 billion in expanding Bromma. In addition, investments around the airport come in hotels, conference centers and shops. It'll be a huge destruction of capital if Bromma is shut down. One can actually compare the closure of Bromma with the closure of Barsebäck and also Ringhals 1, where the existing electricity supply infrastructure was shut down on completely incorrect grounds. Now we have to deal with the consequences of electricity shortages and imports of coal power from Poland, Lithuania and so on. So much for the government's environmentally friendly policy. We Moderates want to invest in nuclear power, which provides clean and fossil-free energy.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-350	Madam President and the interpellant! I am a little taken when I hear the Member of Parliament from the Moderates say that it would be better to keep both Bromma and Barsebäck. I think that a lot of people who work at Bromma and with the development of Swedish flights do not look very optimistic on that illustration. But maybe it's a sign of where the Moderates are now. In its lack of faith in the future, old technologies – fossil society and nuclear society – are grasped instead of seeing the possibility of electrification of the transport sector or of biofuels. It is a matter of seriously changing the transport sector. That's what we're doing. There Sweden is the world leader. We're leading the progress. I was, along with Prince Daniel, with when Heart Aerospace presented the engine of a 19-person plan to be powered by electricity. It can industrially become an incredibly important business in the future. I am not quite so sure that 19 people's plans will be a large part of the Swedish market. But industrially and in the world it is a very important success. Similarly, I am pleased that there is now a strong commitment to increased biofuel production, so that biofuels can be used for aviation and the conversion of aviation as we electrify road transport. It is an aviation industry that thanks not least to the processes we have had with Fossil-free Sweden now wants to change. Left on the platform are the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. They are still crying out for reduced air tax or other old efforts to save something that is no longer up to date. In these times when millions of people around the world, not only Greta Thunberg, have demonstrated their concern and fear of climate change and when the world's leading experts say that we have to change, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are thinking and thinking something completely different. They are proposing substantial savings on climate funding. I still find it remarkable. As regards not least Bromma airport, I note that Maria Stockhaus does not answer the basic question: Do the Moderates want to reduce the national base supply? That is the fundamental issue at stake. Isn't that what you want? Swedavia is responsible for running the national base supply. Do we want to reduce the national level and privatise the basic range? It is a fundamental question to which the Moderates must answer. In a situation where aviation is under very severe pressure and where there is a radical reduction in air transport, we, from the government, have rather gone in and supported both the infrastructure and aviation operators with credit guarantees and with loan facilities. In addition, we have supported both regional airports and state airports. But in that situation – and I think that is understandable – Swedavia also shows that it is difficult economically for Swedavia to operate in several places where there is no functioning air operations. That is why it has been said that there are no commercial conditions to push Bromma further. I note that Good, the big player at Bromma, has said that you can see the conditions to instead gather around Arlanda and get a larger base for domestic aviation. That is the kind of discussion we need to have. What are the prerequisites for a well-functioning aviation infrastructure in the future? However, I note that the Moderates instead stop at the question of how private operators should enter and take part in the national or state supply of airports. Above all, you do not see the possibility of changing aircraft, but you hug old technology. From the government's side, it's clear. The flight is needed, but the flight needs to be changed. That has been my message before, and that is my message here today.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-360	Madam President, I would like Tomas Eneroth's question about the basic offer seems strange, as the government has asked Swedavia to produce a basis for closing Bromma prematurely. You reduce the basic offer if you tell Swedavia to cancel the agreement. What we are saying is: should this happen, we are prepared to look at if there is anyone else who wants to operate the airport further. We believe that Bromma needs to remain at least until 2038. The question is therefore very strange given that the government is about to reduce the basic supply by closing Bromma prematurely. This is very fascinating. We talk a lot, really, no matter what debate it is, about the pandemic having hit hard on aviation. That is absolutely the case. Our travel habits will change after the pandemic. Yes, everyone believes that. I think we are very confident that this will happen. But the interesting thing is that it is always only air travel that should decrease, not train travel. It goes without saying that travelling by train will also be reduced. The daily trips to Gothenburg and Malmö will also be fewer. Yet it is planned to move on with 300 – 400 billion to high-speed lines. It's quite interesting. It is not prepared to take into account the pandemic in the case of the train, but it is quick to exploit the consequences of the pandemic in order to hit the aircraft. It's a very strange act, I think. The Minister for Infrastructure is very proud of Heart Aerospace and what is happening with that development. I was also in Gothenburg, and it was fascinating to see the development and how quickly it has gone. But if they are to have a chance, they must have a market to start on, and then airports are needed. Bromma is needed as an airport for regional flights. Bromma is needed for those flying from regional airports in the country to have a place to land. It is on these routes that electric flights will be able to start up, but there is no airport in Stockholm that can receive it is that market doomed. That would be very sad.
i-2DWDHmiFifumCgsqS9qpJ3	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment, Maria Stockhaus! Let's start with the electric flight. However, I would like to say that I find this to be an incredibly interesting development. Having seen that electric cars and biofuels have actually been able to benefit on the market through differentiated taxation, we are now working on differentiated starting and landing charges. But we are also working internationally to change the taxation of aviation. At present, the airline tax is a ticket tax, but with environmental differentiation it could mean the possibility to reward, for example, electricity flights or airlines that choose to have a higher share of biofuels. In this way, we are pushing the market in the right direction. What the Moderates say is that you should abolish the treasure. You're not going to rule, Maria Stockhaus. You're missing the chance. There are excellent tools here that have proved to work on the road vehicles, and they should reasonably be able to work on aircraft as well. It is about finding economic instruments so that the market can change, and that is what the actors in Sweden have understood. The aviation industry, together with aviation operators, has developed a joint programme, with process management by Fossil-free Sweden, and now they are here to reset – thanks to clear signals from the government that aviation is needed. Sweden is an export-dependent industrial country. We are a large and elongated country, and we really need the flight. However, the flight we have will be able to make a change because the whole transport sector must reduce its climate impact. I think it is important that not least the Moderates, who have traditionally had close contacts with the business community in the past, now participate in the work and upgrade the instruments we can have to steer industrial development towards more climate-smart transport. I hope and believe that we will be able to agree on such discussions in the future. Then we will get back to what the airport structure looks like in the future. In the midst of a pandemic, it is not easy to determine this.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-369	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to take measures to minimise the risks of traffic disruptions and accidents involving so-called EU trailers and wherein the measures will persist. Initially, I would like to say that I am concerned when heavy transport is not adapted to Swedish winter conditions, as it can lead to accidents as well as disturbances in traffic. The government has therefore taken several steps to address the problems. We have introduced requirements for heavy vehicles and trailers to be equipped with winter tyres on all axles when there is winter road. The tyres fitted to the steering and driving axles of the car shall also be tested for snow and ice grip. Furthermore, the government is carrying out several efforts to improve checks on professional traffic so that we ensure compliance with the rules. In May 2018, a new requirement for the YKB training was added, which means that the driver should be aware of and be able to adapt his driving to different weather conditions. The Government has also allowed the Swedish Transport Agency to examine in particular stricter requirements for the safety of EU trailers. The Swedish Transport Agency's report proposes, among other things, new requirements for drive axle pressure or new requirements for weight ratio between truck and trailer. The Swedish Transport Agency's report is now being consulted. I have also raised the problem that surrounds EU trailers at a meeting with the European Commission, in order to get the EU to take more action. In view of this, I can conclude that the Government has taken several measures to minimise the risks of transport disruptions and accidents involving EU trailers, and I do not rule out further action being taken.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Out on the roads are called the vehicles we are now discussing, the European rockets. It often goes fast, and it carries off on the side of the road. Why? Because the vehicles often have poor tyre equipment. They are worn down tyres and tyres of the wrong type during winter transport. You misload, so that you have far too low pressure on the drive shaft of the vehicle. Since we're talking about a two-axle trailer, there are only two axles, one of which sits under a so-called king-pin, which the trailer rests against. If you load these vehicles wrong they have very easy to fold; it is called folding knife effect. They become like a V and walk off the road. If it is really bad, there can actually be a fatal accident when they come across the wrong side of the road. We had such an accident at home not long ago. The problem with this type of vehicle is that they are often driven by people who do not have training to drive in winter conditions. We have a little different winters up here than they have down in Europe, and if you're not used to handling the ground – if you don't load the vehicle correctly and don't make sure you have tyre equipment that can handle the road team you're driving in – the accident is literally lurking around the corner. In addition, these combinations have strikingly often other shortcomings. So it is not only that tyres and faultloads are bad, but it is also unload-proof. What happens then is that you can get a shift of the load. In the worst case, the goods leave the vehicle and fall into the oncoming lane so that someone gets it over them, or it puts the vehicle in imbalance. That way the vehicle goes off the road. The police call these checks aquaria fishing. There are so many flaws that it is really just going out and picking a car on the road, and then you have to do a few hours before you dereport. Now I'm talking about the Västerås gang, which are the sharpest in Sweden. They controlled 20 combinations, of which 10 had bad tires and were not allowed to continue. Among the 20 combinations that were checked, there was so much deficiency that 12 combinations were not allowed to continue until they had paid the fine; they were trampled. There were so many vehicles at the checkpoint that they had to stop working. There was no room to bring in any more. This shows the need to access this type of vehicle, which is a danger to the rest of us on the road. As soon as we're out there, we risk getting a vehicle like that over us when they don't get things together. One of the vehicles stopped in Västerås had 7-8 tons of engine blocks that were completely loose. They were at the top of the transport, and you don't have to be gifted with much imagination to understand what happens if they fall out over the chapel side while it's a vehicle meeting. If there are 7 tons of engine parts that hit a passenger car, there is guaranteed to be a fatal accident. So we have this on the road every day to such an extent that the police call it aquarium fishing. Now the government has to get a control operation worth the name.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-382	Madam President, I would like As regards control activities, Thomas Morell and I have discussed it on a number of occasions. We know that there is an incredible difference depending on which government it is running. Under a Social Democratic government, we have put forward proposals for earmarked resources for the control of cabotage traffic. The police received SEK 100 million to increase the controls on cabotage and combined transport. It is during this time that we have set up the investigation into a professional traffic inspection, that is to say, we have begun to investigate the conditions for having a special inspection facility to increase checks on the road. It is under a Social Democratic-led government that we have developed, for example, the proposals on winter tyre legislation so that the Västerås police, if I am going to understand Thomas Morell's story correctly, can react when the tyres are bad and poor because they are not winter tyres. It was not possible before, because there was no such legislation. That's what we've been working on. You can stoop, i.e. lock up the tires. It was not possible before either, because under a moderate government they did not have these tools. Yet Thomas Morell belongs to a party that proposes that Ulf Kristersson should lead the country, and he wants to cooperate with, and cooperates with, the Moderates, who during their time in government did nothing to overcome the problems of professional traffic. During our reign, we have developed clamping, winter tires, ordering responsibility and other efforts, not least fines. During this time, we have acted against EU trailers because we have seen a number of incidents and accidents, not least with the folding knife effect, which has shown that we need to act in terms of both construction and regulation. The Swedish Transport Agency's proposal is out for consultation, and I hope that we will be able to work quickly on the proposals that exist. It is a question of at least 25% of the total gross mass of the vehicle train, which loads the driving axle or of the total gross weight of the wheels of the coupled trailers being transferred to the roadway, not exceeding 1.5 times the total gross weight of the wheels of the truck being transferred to the roadway. That is the degree of detail to address the problems. The second part is, of course, about international work in the Commission and the regulation of the UNECE. We do not have everything ourselves. That is why I have also acted and have raised the issue with the Commissioner and the European Commission. That is how we take political responsibility. This is how we act for road safety, to ensure that there are nice conditions for Swedish haulage companies that comply with laws and regulations and that there is order in the transport industry in Sweden. We have worked for this because we do not think that a fully liberalised market without political demands for either road safety or for that matter posting, or for that matter regulation of driving and rest rules, is reasonable. We think that demands should be made. This is probably one reason why we receive a lot of praise and support from the haulage industry and operators because we see that things are happening. I think it's good that Thomas Morell has a strong personal commitment. I appreciate that. It is an experience that I think is important to take on board in discussions and debates. I can only say that, in votes and political choices, Thomas Morell chooses to vote with the Moderates in all cases, to act in favour of a moderate-led government, thereby reducing demands for order in professional traffic and not a willingness to act to level out the conditions of competition between Swedish and foreign hauliers. My starting point is that we must protect the Swedish haulage industry so that it has reasonable opportunities to continue to grow and become strong.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-391	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The calculation of the distribution of the weights of vehicle vehicles raised by the Government should be in the spinal cord of each well-trained driver. The vehicle shall be loaded in such a way that it can be safely driven. You can't load it so that you end up in a position where the folding knife effect occurs or other flaws take over. The vehicle must be in balance in order to operate safely on the road. It is one of the basic elements of training professional drivers. It is quite clear that many of those who are actors on Swedish roads do not have the basic knowledge of how to load a vehicle, what equipment to have and what requirements are placed on the driver and what requirements are placed on the vehicle for it to work when it is ten degrees cold and a decimeter of snow on the road. There are a lot of drivers who cannot handle the most elementary of these transports. It is great that the government has put forward proposals on winter tires, but it also requires someone to check and report those who do not have winter tires. There is much about Västerås in these discussions, but it is because there is a good traffic there. There is also one in Helsingborg. The two stand out. Then there are Eskilstuna and Sundsvall too, and we should not say that they do not behave, but those who really shine as two strong stars are Västerås and Helsingborg. They themselves say it's like fishing in an aquarium. If they pick up a car, it's bingo. I mentioned an example where 20 combinations were controlled. Ten of them were not allowed to continue because the tires were too bad. That's 50%. Twelve of them also had to pay fines for other reasons, and they were not allowed to continue until the fine was paid. This shows the extent of the problem we are discussing. You might think what you want if a few millimeters here or there on a tyre would not matter so much, but they do if you ride on a 40 - ton gross vehicle and there is not enough friction on the ground. A single millimeter can determine whether it is going well or not. There are cars that roll with tyre patterns as deep as the surface of the table top of the speaker's chair. They basically roll on cheeses. They cannot make their way on the smooth road, and then it is not far away until an accident occurs with just the folding knife effect. The Government replied to me that in May 2018, a new requirement for the YKB training was added, which means that the driver should be aware of and be able to adapt his driving to different weather conditions. Yes, it's for those we educate here in Sweden, but it's not them we're discussing here. We are talking about those who do not have the most basic knowledge to drive a heavy vehicle in winter conditions. We can't get to them with that change. We can't reach those who cheat with the winter tires unless there's someone out there doing the checks and reporting when things get wrong. More checks must be carried out along the way. Furthermore, the control activities must be equipped, and those who are not on their way must be reported away – so that the rest of us can drive there without risking our lives.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-400	Madam President, I would like I note that there are more checks now, for example because we have earmarked SEK 100 million for the police to carry out checks on cabotage traffic, combined transport, etc. This is, among other things, the effect of the controls referred to by Thomas Morell. In order to have even more controls in addition to the earmarked resources, which have increased police control facilities, there is now an investigation looking at the possibility of establishing a professional traffic inspection. It is stated in the directives that the investigation should propose an overall organisation for increased control activities. We want to see more controls. They're needed. But basically it is a matter of remembering, and that was my point in my previous speech, the fact that checks in Västerås can point out that there are no winter tires, or the fact that one can say that a particular vehicle should not travel further without it to be trampled, has been added because a Social Democratic-led government has pushed through this. It wasn't done before. At the time, it was considered to be an obstacle to free movement, an obstacle to transport at low cost across Europe. That's what the ideology looked like. The price of this was dumped wages. Truck drivers from Eastern Europe went around Europe's roads to low wages and with terrible working conditions. We Social Democrats have fought for decent conditions, good working conditions, and that vehicles should comply with the rules that apply in Sweden, for example in relation to winter tyres. It was a victory when we got these demands through the mobility package in the negotiations in Brussels. It is a regulation to be implemented in Sweden, with the possibility to require posting from day 1 in the case of cabotage or combined transport by road. There are now fines and the possibility to impose completely different requirements on not least foreign players in the Swedish market. We think it is necessary. This is a successful work with the trade union movement. The Transport Workers' Association has done a solid job for the rights of its members. This enables us to increase the attractiveness of working in the transport sector in the future. Truck drivers should not have the prospect of sitting in a parking lot, sleeping in their cabin, cooking there, being stressed by following driving and rest rules in an increasingly time-pressed market in a situation where fair competition does not prevail. They will receive a decent salary and development opportunities, travel in a safe vehicle and know that there are tools for the police to stop illegal activities and control activities on the ground. In the case of EU trailers, it is a complication and a challenge that it is European regulated. That is why it was important for me to act directly towards the Commission and to ensure that it was made aware of these problems at European level, but at the same time to give clear mandates to the Swedish Transport Agency to see what we can do here in Sweden. These proposals are now being consulted. In this way, we systematically continue to create order and order in Swedish professional traffic through requirements for both education and customer responsibility. Let me conclude with the orderer responsibility, which we have also introduced and which did not exist before. The fact that we say that whoever orders transport also has a responsibility through the chain for it to be legal transport means that Ikea or Volvo or other large Swedish companies ordering transport have a responsibility. And now the first judges have arrived.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I guess we'll continue where we left off: the judges have arrived, two of them. Both are subject to appeal. The lawyers I've spoken to say that it will probably lead to a plea. I wasn't in Parliament then, but if I'm not completely misinformed, it was a case that a united transport committee came up with proposals on both clapping and ordering responsibility before the 2014 elections. You're welcome to correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it was a united traffic committee. Then Anders Ygeman was the chairman. I may be wrong, but in that case, you can correct me. To go back to the measures that have been taken, it is great that Roger and the other officials in Västerås have been given better tools. It's great, just like it is for Farid and the guys in Helsingborg. But Sweden consists of more than Västerås and Helsingborg. My old employer The police authority in Västra Götaland, as it was then called, in Gothenburg had 60 police officers in external service in the traffic department when they were at their most. Now they are down to two who have heavy jurisdictions, and it is in Sweden's second largest city. It is also the largest port in northern Europe, so there is an enormous amount of traffic inside and out where checks can be made on both weights and cargo securing and other things. But you don't have the resources to do those checks. The starting point of the problem is the ports. There you could make a huge effort if there were only people standing on the asphalt and doing the job, but that's not the case. Here, after all, the government has a responsibility to ensure that there is a control activity worthy of the name.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-415	Madam President, I would like It is the Minister for Infrastructure who will answer, although most of the last question may actually fall under the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs. I think Mikael Damberg would have answered just like me: the police have never had as much resources as now. This is because we have provided proper resources to the Swedish police, increased police training and made sure that they have better conditions to maintain law and order. On a number of occasions I have heard the chief police officer talk about the importance of investing in the traffic police, which I appreciate and hope for. However, during my time as responsible for this area, we have also earmarked not only the resources of the police for increased traffic controls on cabotage traffic by SEK 100 million, but also an investigation into more effective checks on professional traffic. One consequence of this investigation may be that we have a professional traffic inspection, a joint organisation for monitoring professional traffic. Then it's not just truck traffic, which Thomas Morell and I often discuss. It is also about the taxi industry, where there is also a need for proper control, and other parts of professional traffic. I believe that we have come to the point where most – not least those who work in the transport sector – realise that the wave of liberal ideas that swept over Europe in the 1990s and the 00s, when everything was to be released for the market, not least in the transport sector led to extreme pressure on low wages and low costs, reduced demands and social dumping. It is against this that we have worked systematically within Swedish Social Democracy and the trade union movement, and this government has taken several further initiatives to create better control activities and above all better conditions and order in Swedish professional traffic.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-421	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to increase the safety of buses and trains. T backness for both employees and passengers in public transport is important to increase attractiveness and enable increased travel by means of public transport. With regard to the safety and safety of passengers and employees on board trains, this is primarily a clear responsibility for railway undertakings in their capacity as carriers and employers. In order to strengthen security in society and on our public transport, an investigation was set up in autumn 2019 to review the regulations for security officers. The purpose of the investigation is to bring about a regulation that allows security officers to be used more effectively than they do today. The investigation shall, inter alia, review the place where guards are to serve and whether security guards are to be assigned additional duties in order keeping. The report shall be presented by 21 May 2021. At the initiative of the Government and in order to further improve the possibilities of using camera surveillance, including for law enforcement and order enforcement purposes, the Camera Protection Act was also amended on 1 August 2020 so that permission from the Privacy Protection Authority is no longer required to monitor the camera in public transport, among other things. The new rules allow cameras to be installed without authorisation in public transport and in station, terminal and stop areas. In 2017, the National Council for Railway and Public Transport Protection was also established, which cooperates on security issues at national level. The Council includes authorities such as the Finnish Transport Agency, the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Police Authority, but also representatives of the industry. A lmega and Tågföretagen, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, Swedish Public Transport and Jernhusen are some examples of participants. Within the framework of the National Council, important development work is being carried out on, inter alia, safety and security issues. Against this background, I would like to emphasise that the security of both employees and passengers in public transport remains an important issue for the government.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-426	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! Travelling in public transport should be safe, and you should be able to do it calmly and quietly without anything happening. Public transport must also be a safe place of work for train hosts, tram drivers and bus drivers. But it has become a social development where you constantly attack or question train hosts when they are going to view tickets and such things. I travel very much by train myself, and I see these incidents – it's almost too little to call them that – where you attack the train host, who asks a very relevant question whether you have a ticket or not. If you are to travel by public transport, you must pay your ticket; that is a matter of course. This should be done to do the right thing, of course, but it also has to do with respect for other travellers who pay. After all, the majority do. Aftonbladet referred to the situation of train hosts when the question of whether or not trains should stop in Kumla came up. The situation there had escalated, and it was threatening for the staff. I met representatives of SJ the other day, and so far they stay in Kumla. But that remains a concern. The article in Aftonbladet sets the light on how the people who work in public transport and will make the journey pleasant for the rest of us experience this problem. I apologise for the language, Madam President – I quote directly from the text: One colleague got a blow and started bleeding nosebleeds, another had his glasses broken. Many of us who work don't even want to go check tickets for fear of being attacked. They threaten, mock, spit and have a fucking attitude, says the train host. ..................................................... Furthermore, it says: a staff is instructed to step back and not to enter the conflict situation. The train host Aftonbladet therefore sometimes chooses not to go out and check the tickets when it is messy. The risk of being attacked is too great. "I go straight in and lock myself in the cabin," says the anonymous train host. ..................................................... This describes how the people assigned to serve passengers on trains experience their work situation and the threats they face in their daily lives. This is a serious social problem that has also developed in many other areas. This is not really on the table of the Government, since justice is in another department. Nevertheless, it affects public transport and its practitioners. In the case of travellers, people eventually opt out of the collective means of transport because they do not feel safe on board. When it comes to what the article says, that the train manager goes and locks himself in the cab, the travelers themselves are with those who are threatening out there. They have no support from the train crew, who are either driving the train or locked in a cabin somewhere. In the end, then, the usual, honest traveller avoids public transport because the situation is too serious. I am thinking a little about what the Government intends to do to improve the situation in public transport.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-436	Madam President and Thomas Morell! Of course, we can see this as a matter of justice, and then we must act to prevent violent people from entering the trains. The employer also has a strong interest and commitment here. However, I would like to take this opportunity to take a different perspective on the issue. For a long time I was the main safety officer and worked in the industry on safety issues. In Sweden, we have a tradition where trade unions work together with employers to identify risks in the work environment. It is a comprehensive protection work, where protection rounds are made, identified and secured so that staff feel safe. I believe that a key element in increasing safety is to limit the possibility of cooperation, to ensure that employers assume their responsibilities in order to be safe at work and to ensure that they have the right and adequate protective equipment and training for the mission. I have met representatives of Seko, for example, who have witnessed how they have sometimes had rather tough discussions when they wanted to make demands. I am a social democrat and I see that we sometimes need to strengthen trade union rights. The Swedish democrats choose to reduce the conditions, reduce the resources for regional safety representatives, reduce the work environment and contribute to reduced funding for preventive work. How does Thomas Morell view the responsibility of the Swedish democrats, when you dismantle trade unions and the parties' opportunities to improve security? I think this is an important perspective. The second is, of course, to ensure that railway undertakings, in this case, assume their responsibilities and ensure that staffing is such that they can feel safe and that adequate safeguards are in place. Then in the answer I have explained how we are now moving forward with security guards and their opportunities, but also other, more legal, efforts to prosecute crime. Because that's what it's all about, whether it's on a train or in the square or if someone goes out with iron pipes in town and wants to beat fellow humans. I think it is important in this context to recognise that the employer has an obligation to ensure that the staff can feel safe. This is also the starting point when you can go in and ask for a freeze or stop operations if there is uncertainty. Then, of course, companies should have close contacts with the police and others and the opportunity to call for help when necessary, but it must be a clear starting point that the staff who are working today to ensure that Thomas Morell and I can travel on trains safely and surely also themselves should feel safe and secure. I think that is a requirement we should make for SJ, MTR and other operators. But it should also be a requirement that we from the Swedish side, from the Swedish parliament and government, support the tradition that trade unions, together with employers, systematically work with the working environment and with protection measures. The basic question back to Thomas Morell is therefore: Do you now want to strengthen the possibilities for regional safety representatives, for safety rounds and for good and safe safety work with trade unions and employers together? This is where you can really identify the risks that exist in the working environment, both on trains and in the rest of society.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-445	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We do not think that regional safety representatives should be politically linked, and we know that this exists in the trade union movement. We want impartial inspectors who manage that part so that it has no connection with politics or with any party, whether with social democrats or with Swedish democrats. It's supposed to be completely independent. The one about it. If you look at what it looks like for those working in public transport – train hosts, bus drivers, tram drivers – and compare with an average for other occupations, you can see that for train hosts and train masters, 27 per cent of reported accidents involving sick leave caused by threats or violence at the workplace. For bus and tram drivers, the corresponding figure is 19 per cent. On average, the figure for working people in all occupations is 7%. There's a dramatic difference, I'd say. Those who work in public transport as train hosts or bus drivers are heavily exposed. I myself have driven the bus once, on the tram road in Gothenburg. It wasn't as dramatic then. You could get on board some transferred master on Friday or Saturday night, and they were quite easy to lead off. I was never exposed to any threats myself, but there were drivers who were. It was a little calmer then, if we back off a number of years. As it has developed now – and it is a social problem that we have – you take the right to practice violence or threats to another person when you think you have the right to do so. You don't want to follow the usual rules that are set up, such as paying for yourself when you travel by bus or tram. You think you can do what you want, and if you are reproved, you attack. We can't have that. This is a social concern that has a tendency to increase. We can go to Skövde instead, the place I myself ride trains from. The Travel Centre in Skövde has developed into a stay in the evenings. The other day, the police made a raid, and there was drug trafficking there. In addition, one person was taken for drug use. There it has become so that ordinary people, if we are to put it that way, choose not to go by bus because the situation is as it is at the travel centre. On one occasion, a civilian police officer – he was not uniformed but on duty – was severely abused. The government has certainly seen about it on television; there have been many reports about it. He was beaten down, severely beaten and unconscious at the travel centre in Skövde. That is the situation we have and it is not acceptable. Then it is clear that the employer should do what it can to protect and facilitate its staff. However, it is not possible to hang like a helicopter over everything and at all times to protect the staff. It must also be the case that society tackles these problems and sees to it that those who cannot behave are prosecuted. If you can always do what you want and threaten people without anyone caring, then you take it for revenue because it is free to go, and then it escalates behavior. In the end, it will not be anyone who wants to work in public transport, either as a train host or as a bus driver. So what do we do?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-455	Madam President, I would like I think it is telling when Thomas Morell tries to escape the issue of regional safety representatives and says that they should not be politically appointed. What the Swedish Democrats are saying is that you do not want members to appoint their safety representatives. You fail the ability of train hosts, bus drivers and others to appoint their own representatives to ensure their protection at their workplaces. You would rather have authorities, employers or someone else appoint these representatives. My question back to Thomas Morell is: Why doesn't Thomas Morell trust a bus driver, a train host or someone else in public transport the right or the ability to appoint his safety representatives? Why should Thomas Morell make sure someone else appoints them? Basically, it is about the possibility of having their representatives at their workplace who talk about what needs to be protected. In this context, it is an important issue, because it is a special work situation when working in public transport. Someone who does not have that experience cannot make the right judgement, but it is good to have that experience. That's the point. But the Swedish Democrats do not want that. The Swedish Democrats do not want the members of a trade union organisation to appoint their regional safety representatives. Then it is serious when people take the right to practice violence. I share that view, whether you go out with iron pipes in the city or threaten in other ways. Then society must act strongly with more police officers, with increased opportunities to prosecute crimes and with increased surveillance opportunities. This has also happened during this time. We have increased the possibilities for monitoring, both individual monitoring with cameras and monitoring in station areas. Jernhusen and other actors in the public transport industry have also developed better possibilities to secure stations so that you can feel safe – with safety hosts, with lighting, with architecture and with design. I think it is important that we systematically continue to work with models that make you feel safe. However, I still think it is telling when the Swedish Democrats do not think that those who work in public transport themselves should be allowed to appoint their representatives to ensure that they are protected so that they do not need to be threatened in their work environment but may have safety rounds and safety representatives who look after the members' best interests.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-460	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Now this became a debate about the union's goods or not to be. That's not what it's all about. The union can't do much when it comes to prosecuting crimes. That is what society should do, with the support of the legislation that is being decided on here. It is the police that are to take action, and the courts are to issue judgments to those who commit crimes. That is where we need to deploy the resources. Then, of course, a safety representative can have views, but that is not what solves the problem with the people who take the liberty of threatening and beating other people. The union has no legal support in that work. We think it is better that, for example, the Swedish Work Environment Authority does this, with inspectors who have legislation in their backs and can get to grips with the problems of the working environment. But it does not solve the knot with train hosts and bus drivers who get hurt during their work. It is society that should go in with measures to curb this, because it is crimes we are talking about. Threatening or assaulting someone is a crime, and it is the law that should take care of it. Then you really only have one authority to deal with the problem. It happened after all, although it is a long time ago, that we had to go by buses on Friday and Saturday evenings to secure transport up to Karlsborg. That line was notorious when it came to trouble and trouble on the buses. So we got to ride along to keep the fight down and make sure everyone sat down in the bus so that there was order. But we can't have cops in every bus – it doesn't work – but the legislation has to reach those who commit crimes and lock them up.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-464	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue raised by Thomas Morell. But it is also talking about the absence of answers from Thomas Morell on this issue – not to trust bus drivers, train hosts or others to appoint their representatives to talk about how protection should develop in the workplace. It is very much a work environment issue. It is very much a question of what staffing we have in public transport and how to feel safe when working if it is pulled down on the staff and you may be alone on the train instead of having a colleague because the employer wants to push the costs. It is clear that these are important issues where the parties in Sweden tend to agree, but there are also target conflicts. It is important that the members, through their safety representatives, for example, can act with legal support through a suspension of protection and protection legislation. Then the authorities will inspect, and you can run it legally, but it is an important part of how we actually ensure a safe working environment for those who work not only in public transport but throughout society. I find it sad that the Swedish democrats do not see it, but reject the right of bus drivers, train hosts, conductors and others to appoint their representatives. I think it is valuable if you have worked on the train or on the bus yourself and can actually have the experience in assessing what efforts are to be made so that those who work feel safe. There is, of course, all that we have discussed in the past: protective equipment, camera surveillance, preparedness for the police to act, the responsibility of the employer or, for that matter, how to design stations. That is where the national council is working, to which I referred. There is an investigation work going on, but we must also realise that it is basically also a matter of feeling safe if you have a colleague who is in place. Then the safety representatives are an important part, and there are the Swedish democrats completely unanswered.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-469	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether the government intends to take measures for a national exemption from the requirement for spray protection in spray screens on heavy-duty vehicles. Let me first make it clear that safety on our roads is a priority area for the government. The safe operation of heavy goods transport is central, and the government has taken several steps in this area. To name a few, the government has introduced an order responsibility in the procurement of transport, and since 2019 there is a requirement for heavy duty vehicles to have winter tyres on all axles at winter roads. Moreover, professional transport is part of the EU's internal market and is therefore subject to a common regulatory framework within the EU. Sweden is active in the EU's work in the field of transport, not least to ensure that the rules are also adapted to the conditions prevailing in Sweden. When it comes to precisely the requirements for spray protection in the mudguards, which are at risk of causing problems in winter, there is a good EU regulatory framework in place. The regulatory framework therefore already allows spray protection not to be used if it hinders the use of the vehicle. However, it has been shown that the Swedish regulations need to be clarified, which the Swedish Transport Agency, together with the inspection bodies, is now working with.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-473	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! Maybe we're talking in riddles now, because maybe everyone doesn't know what spray protection is. There is an area in the spray-suppression rear of trucks that will catch the water fog that occurs around the vehicle when the wheels rotate and the roadway is wet. The idea is good, that is, that you have something that allows the water to go straight down instead of spreading out to the sides and creating water fog that can reduce the visibility of other road users. So far I agree with the reasoning, but the problem is that in our climate up in Sweden captures this surface that sits inside the mudguard, and which usually consists of something that you can liken to the carpet that you have in entrances and that looks like lawn, so that the straw acts as reinforcement. When the snow slab goes up there, it's built on. In the run-up to this debate, I sent out a question on Facebook – I have quite a few people in the haulage industry who follow me – and asked them to show pictures of what it looks like after a few miles of driving on the roads. This winter it has been snow all the way down in Skåne, and I have got lots of pictures and films. Clums weighing 10 kilos have been released. Everyone understands what happens when such a lump comes off a heavy vehicle and goes into the oncoming roadway. I also got a picture from a truck driver who meets a combination where one of those clumps comes loose. It breaks the bottom of the front of the truck. You understand the powers involved. If it was a passenger car, you don't know what would have happened if it had been hit. Are the drivers reckless when this happens? No, they'll stay and put the clumps away as soon as there's a chance. At the same time, we have the situation that the Swedish Transport Administration has removed many rest places, so there is nowhere to stop and clean. And it's enough to drive a mile and it's built up a giant lump again. It constitutes a danger to other road users. What if you don't have this spray protection? Well, clumps can be built up then, but it is not these giant ice lumps that weigh up to ten kilos, but what collects collapses by a llt because when the vehicle moves. But on vehicles with spray protection, the straws act as reinforcement and hold the slat until it becomes so heavy that the whole spray cover loosens and leaves on the side. If you are stopped in a flying inspection or during inspection, you get a note if the spray protection is missing. This issue has come up, and Sweden's Åkeri company has requested an immediate exemption for spray protection in the mudguards and clarification of the regulations. It's good, because with our climate up here in the Nordic countries and the situation we have on the winter roads, this creates greater problems for safety than if you leave it alone. There has been a proposal for an exception, and I can only do a little bit, because once again we do not understand what the problem is. I will elaborate on that in my next speech.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-482	Madam President, I would like I think that most people who follow the debate realise that there are no deep ideological conflicts on the issue of spray protection, but that it is a question of ensuring that we find a reasonable order to ensure safety on our roads and ensure that there can be no lumps of ice that can harm road users. The problem has been highlighted, and the Swedish Transport Agency has commissioned a working group under the newly formed Inspection Committee to look at it. The inspection committee includes Sweden's Åkeri company. If there are then, as I have been informed, the conditions for making individual exceptions are being tested. It is unclear whether general exceptions can be made. I assume that those who work with this daily, from Sweden's Åkeri company, the Swedish Transport Agency and for that matter also Swedac and some other inspection bodies, will find a good solution to this as quickly as possible.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-485	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The spray protection works as long as it's a rainy road we're talking about. Then they limit the water fog that otherwise occurs around a heavy vehicle. But the problem arises in our winter climate. It is quite clear here that Brussels does not really know what a Swedish winter road means for this type of construction. Sweden should have been much clearer when the regulations were adopted. You should have said it doesn't work. In particular, the vehicle owner shall not be subjected to a remark in the absence of the spray protection. It is almost impossible to keep it on the vehicle in the climate we have in winter. This, of course, gives rise to enormous costs for hauliers. However, other road users are also in danger when such a ten - pound [10 kg] shoal leaves. The inspection committee has come up with a proposal for an exemption for forestry and construction vehicles – they drive in rough terrain – concrete vehicles, tilt vehicles – with rear tip – tow vehicles, fire vehicles, timber vehicles, lift dumpers, and vehicles for cleaning, asphalting, street cleaning and vehicles with a concrete pump or lifting hook. What about all the people who are driving on the mountains? That is where the big cookies are really built up, which releases and risks harming other road users. But that group isn't there. So they haven't thought all the way. When you lie down and drive along the main highway and in the salty mood that is formed, it blows up and builds up the ice sheet that loosens and goes out on others. As I said before, it has nothing to do with the drivers being lazy. It's impossible to keep it clean. There aren't enough places along the way to stop at to knock it off. You can go 50 miles before you find a place where you can drive aside. Then you may have dropped several such large lumps along the way. In their eagerness to create a safe environment on rain-wet roads, we have thus created a much greater worry in the climate that we have up here. Here, Sweden must put its foot down and say: This kind of solution does not work in the winter up here in the Nordic countries. Then we create more trouble than what it was intended to solve.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-492	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Thomas Morell is trying to make this an issue of the European Union. I sense that it is the opposition of the Swedish democrats to the European Union that is haunting. They want us to leave the European Union. In this case, it is the Swedish Transport Agency's own regulations and general guidelines that need to be developed to meet this. I assume that in true Swedish tradition we will find a common solution between the Swedish Transport Agency, the haulage companies, the inspection bodies and others. I believe that these are mostly questions of application. If Thomas Morell wants to make this a question of Sweden's participation in the EU, that may be the case. But this is rather about us continuing to have a well-functioning collaboration between Swedish authorities and industries. I do not think anyone hesitates or even doubts that this government and not least I want to do everything to strengthen Swedish transport industry and ensure that it is safe and secure on our roads. It is this government that has strengthened the competitiveness of the Swedish transport industry and has increased road safety with winter tyre requirements, clearer both driving and rest time rules and international regulation. It is under this government that we have had complaints and opportunities for fines. It is this government that has increased traffic control on cabotage and set up an investigation into professional traffic inspection. It is therefore in the interests of this government to ensure that we have the best possible road safety. This case is a clear responsibility of the Inspection Committee. Together, they will find a way to resolve the issue. I have full confidence in the authorities and industry in finding a solution. I do not doubt their ambition or competence in this area.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-497	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Oh, please! What do you have to do with gasping, winter tyre requirements and ordering responsibility with spray protection? Certainly a winter deck rotates just in front of the spray protection. But so does a summer deck. So it doesn't make any difference. It was an EU directive that led to the Swedish law in 2005. There is an EU directive at the bottom. This has nothing to do with the attitude of the Swedish democrats towards the EU. It was an EU directive that became a law in Sweden in 2005 and has created a concern in road traffic in winter conditions when ice jok is built on. If you hit such an ice shoal that has been loosened, there will be damage. It can even mean getting off the road. Now there is the opportunity to make a national exception, so that we do not have to worry about this. A bigger problem has been created than the spray protections were intended to solve. If we can agree on that, we're on our way. Then maybe we can get out of this next winter. If we look technically at what creates one of the concerns, we see that a stroke of 3 newtons per spray-suppression decimeter in width should not bend more than that. That's what breaks, loosens and falls out of the way. The idea was good. But it went wrong. I hope that the Government will agree to make a change in Sweden, a national exception.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-503	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that Thomas Morell believes that it is the government that decides on such exceptions. It is the Swedish Transport Agency that has the application of the authority. As a minister, I cannot even comment on this. But it has a well-functioning cooperation in the Inspection Committee and works together to find a solution. That's what we do in Sweden. Whatever Thomas Morell is trying to say about an EU directive being the blame, this is about the decision-making possibilities and regulations that we ourselves, as I understand it, have in Sweden. I therefore believe that in true Swedish tradition we will find a solution by the authorities, together with the industries, looking at the conditions for inspection bodies to interpret the regulations correctly. Then I hope and believe that we will find a solution.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-505	Madam President, I would like Patrik Jönsson has asked me what I intend to do to avoid the negative consequences for the business community in Norrbotten that a possible postponement of the expansion of Norrbotniabanan could mean. As early as 2004, the government established the Banverket's proposal for a future railway plan with funds for a first stage on the Norrbotnia Line. But when the bourgeois government took office in 2006, it chose to stop the project. The Alliance government decided on two occasions on new national plans without allocating funds in either of these for further planning, planning or construction of the Norrbotnia Line.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-506	According to the January Agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, the continued expansion of the railways in northern Sweden will take place, and the planning for building the Norrbotnia Line as a whole will be intensified. We see a positive development in several parts of northern Sweden, with extensive investments. Efficient transport infrastructure is an important factor in improving the conditions for, among other things, jobs, regional development, accessibility and sustainable growth throughout the country. The R legation is carrying out extensive investments in the transport infrastructure in northern Sweden. These include Ostkustbanan, Malmbanan and not least Norrbotniabanan. This government has thus made it clear that Norrbotniabanan is a strategically important investment in contributing to the government's goal of both higher employment and reduced climate and environmental impact. Work has now begun to develop a new national plan, and the Government intends to submit an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag in spring 2021, with proposals for a financial framework for the coming planning period. Continued expansion of Norrbotniabanan will be handled within the upcoming process.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-510	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Eneroth, for your answer. The basis for the interpellation is the Finnish Transport Administration's sent-out orientation basis for the upcoming national plan. There the work flies for the timetable for Norrbotniabanan to be postponed and for the trains to start rolling only after 2033, and then only between Umeå and Skellefteå. The second part of the stretch, between Skellefteå and Luleå, is not included at all. It is fairly clear that a construction stop halfway through the Norrbotnia Line will drastically reduce the track's benefits, which would affect the business community in the upper Norrland region. It would also have a negative impact on passenger traffic. The Chamber of Commerce in northern Sweden estimates that over the next few years the industry will invest more than SEK 1 000 billion in northern Sweden, which in turn will generate thousands of new jobs. We can probably agree that the industry expects its investments to be backed up by the fact that the state is also making the necessary investments in the infrastructure. Moreover, given the electricity shortage in southern Sweden, it cannot be excluded that more companies choose to invest and establish in the northern part of the country. This creates an even greater need for infrastructure. According to the Finnish Transport Agency's forecasts, both passenger transport and freight transport will increase significantly. At the same time, Trafikverket is flagging that the money allocated will only be enough to maintain existing infrastructure and hardly even that. This worries me a lot. Although in his reply to me the Minister for Infrastructure refers to the fact that the so-called January parties in their agreement will intensify the planning of the Norrbotnia Line, this does not mean that the parties promise to ensure that the construction continues until the track is completed in its full length. In addition, the Minister is well aware that the Finnish Transport Administration's guidelines are of a later date than the January agreement. The Northerners and Norrbotniabanan organisation need a quick and clear answer on the matter. The organisation is now building the first phase of Norrbotniabanan and is ready to continue with the next phase. Interrupting the extension in order to resume it at a much later stage would entail high restarting costs. It is worth mentioning in this connection that the poor East Coastal Line, which the Minister also mentioned. It would need rearmament in all its distance to double tracks at a speed of 250 kilometers per hour. This applies partly to freight and passenger transport in southern Norrland and partly to Norrbotniabanan to reach its full potential. Regrettably, in the established existing plan, only a fraction is set aside for the Ostcoast Line. The industry and the authorities in Norrland need rapid action so that the work to complete Norrbotniabanan continues at a rapid pace. In the interpellation response, the Minister refers to the fact that the Norrbotnia Line will be managed in the further process of the new national plan. But, Madam President, I would have liked to have seen an answer from the Minister here and now. When does the Minister estimate that the Norrbotnia Line will be ready?
i-UWV2TyvXSdfaSkuMmEwV6b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Jönsson! I was there in 2018 when we took the shoveltage for Norrbotniabanan. If the Moderates hadn't lifted the track out of the national plan, I might have been there instead to inaugurate it. In 2006, it was lifted out of the plan to make tax cuts more important. Otherwise, it might have been built and finished by now. Imagine how important it would have been for the whole of northern Sweden with the large investments being made, for Northvolt and for LKAB's investments! It would have been important for labour market commuting throughout the region and for the conditions for climate-smart both passenger and freight transport. However, a moderate government chose to lift the track. Patrik Jönsson supports a moderate-led government. My question back will be: Will the Swedish Democrats prioritise Norrbotniabanan? Will you think it's an important bet when the Moderates may once again want to remove it? I read from the Swedish Democrats' own motion where you talk about what projects you think are urgent in these times. These are E22, E16, national road 40, national road 25, E10, national road 56 and E18 – these are roads. Here, the Swedish Democrats have not prioritised any railway initiatives. I think that one must first think about one's own policy before one wants to create increased concern for the Norrbotnia Line. Since it took office, the government has been clear about restoring the Norrbotnia Line to the national plan, starting construction and ensuring that EU funding can now be sought on behalf of the Norrbotnia Line through the EU's common funding opportunities. In addition, the January Agreement provides for an agreement to intensify the work. Norrbotniabanan is important. Politics is about prioritising. The experience we have of the Swedish Democrats is that, when it comes to cooperation with the Moderates, they prioritise. This also raises doubts as to whether the Swedish Democrats are behind the initiative and the completion of Norrbotniabanan. When the Swedish Democrats themselves are going to prioritise, I see in their budget motion that they basically only have directions. I don't think I'll find a single railway object there. The question then arises: Do the Swedish Democrats think it is important to invest in Norrbotniabanan? What the government thinks is obvious. We have even introduced it into the plan, started it, and now we also want the work to be intensified. There is no doubt about that. But if we had had another system of things in 2006, the Norrbotnia Line could already have been completed. Om the then bourgeois government had brought it into the plan in 2010 or at other times perhaps the Norrbotnia track had already been built. I am very pleased with the large investments made in northern Sweden. They create jobs, hope and faith in the future. It is also investments made because we have a progressive and good climate policy. It means that we can now inaugurate Hybrid and get steel without coal or that LKAB can work with the iron sponge of the future. It is also about Northvolt, who sees a market because Sweden dares to be progressive in climate policy. I am not sure that these investments would have been in place if the Swedish Democrats had been allowed to run the country, because they have no climate policy. They do not see the need to make demands either on electrification or on the conversion of the transport sector or, generally speaking, on climate change. These establishments might have taken place elsewhere. Now tell me, Patrik Jönsson! The government is clear, but will the Swedish Democrats prioritise an investment in the railways and Norrbotniabanan?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-528	Madam President, I would like Our dear Minister for Infrastructure seems at times almost to be conducting a debate that it would be Fredrik Reinfeldt who stood here instead of Patrik Jönsson. Very well! The Minister said Patrik Jönsson supports a moderate government. It may not have much to do with Norrbotniabanan and the debate. I note, however, that the Minister for Infrastructure has no idea, because I have not had the opportunity at the moment to take a position on a future government to be supported. Of course, I support a Swedish democratic government in the first place. Perhaps a day will come when the Social Democrats will support a Swedish democratic government. Anything is possible in politics. I'm sure the Minister of Infrastructure knows that. Let me return to the debate, which is about Norrbotniabanan. There is something that could, at least indirectly, affect the use of bananas, and I would like to have an answer from the Minister to a thought I have. It is expensive to transport goods by train, and a large part of the cost comes from charges. Some of them also end up using local industrial tracks. The Social Democrats are a party that is known for having plenty of different strategies. With regard to rail charges, the Social Democrats in Hässleholm City Council voted yesterday for a doubling of the cost of using Hässleholm's industrial tracks. I think it's a little strange. We opposed this. And if the Social Democrats had supported the Swedish Democrats in this matter, we would have had a majority not to increase the fee for operating this track. The Social Democrats also have a Member of Parliament from Hässleholm. I wonder about the national strategy. Do you have long-term plans to double or significantly increase track charges even on state tracks? The question is relevant, because if the runway charges are doubled or increased significantly, the use of the Norrbotnia runway may be significantly lower than forecast. That's the way it could be. I would therefore like an answer on whether there is a strategy for increasing rail charges on state networks. That a Norrbotnia track does not already exist – a railway between Umeå and Luleå – we can mainly attribute defence policy reasons and fear of a Russian invasion. According to the anti-coastal principle, people want to gain time to build up strength and therefore chose to locate the North Main Line many miles inland. This course has served us well. It has been of great importance for freight transport in northern Norrland, but today the situation is different. But it is clear that state investment in infrastructure has not been accompanied. In addition, for decades – for good reason at the time – a policy has been pursued in which many railways have been closed down. It was a car and a truck that led the development. It did not commute long distances to work, as is common today. The environment, discharges and heavily burdened roads were not something that needed to be considered. It's new times now. I am well aware that railway infrastructure is not being built at a glance. That is why, Madam President, the decisions taken by the government and the signals they choose to send are extremely important for the further development of northern Norrland. I had therefore hoped for more clear information from the Minister around Norrbotniabanan. Then I can't help but get into the poor standards of the Ostcoast Line. You really need to upgrade it in order to get sensible connections between Sundsvall and Stockholm and redundancy when it comes to the heavily used single-track North Main Line. There really is a need for a modern standard on this. I had hoped for clearer answers. We are behind the Norrbotnia Line and that it should be expanded, but what do the Social Democrats say?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-538	Madam President, I would like I have to say that the absence of answers is amazing. I asked a simple question about how the Swedish Democrats will view infrastructure investments and railway investments in the future. We can see that when the Swedish Democrats have the opportunity to make proposals themselves, proposals will only come on the road. We can also note that the investments on Norrbotniabanan, on Ostkustbanan and for that matter on the Uppsala – Stockholm route, if we continue along the coast, are initiatives initiated and put into national plan by a Social Democratic led government. On Ostkustbanan, the most important major investment is the section Gävle – Kringlan. It is an investment of about 5 billion that is on national level today. This is done by the government on the basis that Sweden has for a long time been underinvesting in not least railway infrastructure. It was illustrated very clearly during the time we had a bourgeois-led government, which chose to lift the Norrbotnia Line out of the national plan and refrain from investing in the railways. I think that at the time we had a finance minister who said that we should not invest in rail. There are a number of quotes used in this House on a number of occasions. Now it's different times. Now we are investing in the extension of the rail system. Of course, we are also committed to ensuring the quality of the Swedish road network and making record renovations and repairs to the rail system. But we also make new investments in Norrbotniabanan, Ostkustbanan, four tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala and new main tracks. This needs Sweden to cope with the climate change, because it is full on the tracks. That's the challenge. When I took the millionth train a year and a half ago it was to manifest that there have never been so many trains on the Swedish railway. But it's full. A lot of people want to ride more trains. The train boom we experienced before the corona will continue after the coronan, i.e. that more people want to go by train because they want to go climate smart and that more companies want to send goods by train. Then we must also invest, and that is what we are doing in Sweden today. We're making the biggest railway venture ever. I note that so far the Swedish Democrats have not responded to the demands for increased investment in the railways. When you have the opportunity to present proposals in the Swedish parliament, it is in principle only road investments that have been included. I think the Norrbotnia Line is incredibly important, and not only for northern Sweden. For me, this is an important national matter, not least with all the investments being made, but also because an important and large part of the growth in Sweden is taking place in northern Sweden. We are a country with 10.2 million inhabitants now. We need to expand our transport system to meet expectations. When it comes to rail charges, it is important to remember that Sweden's rail charges may be among the lowest in Europe. This creates good conditions for the development of rail transport. The challenge for rail transport is perhaps more about capacity – it is crowded on the tracks. The long-term absence of investment has made it difficult for freight trains, commuter trains and long-distance trains to co-operate. This is why we want to build new main tracks along Hässleholm, to Borås, to Linköping and to Norrköping in order to relieve the southern and western main track and to ensure that you get more capacity for commuter trains and freight trains and in the same way make the new investment in Norrbotniabanan all the way. These are important national initiatives that take place under the leadership of this government in order for us to secure jobs and cope with competitiveness but also to cope with climate change.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-547	Madam President, I would like Now I will be honest and say that I do not have much positive to say about the government of Reinfeldt, but according to a report from the parliamentary investigation service that I have in hand, that government invested considerably more money in investing in rail than the previous Social Democratic Government did. Right should be right. Compared to the Social Democrats, we spend half a billion more on railway maintenance and half a billion more on road maintenance in our budget. We are also spending considerably more, billions more, on investment in infrastructure, both rail and road. The fact that, in addition, we have a corona package to renovate our roads as a measure to push both the economy and employment under the corona is trying to paint the infrastructure minister Tomas Eneroth as something negative. Otherwise, it is really classical social democratic policy to be able to get out of a recession. It used to be, but it doesn't seem like it anymore. Very well! In any case, I have to say that we want to complete the Norrbotnia Line in its full length as soon as possible. I have not received the same clear answer from the Minister for Infrastructure on this. Nor have I been given an adequate answer as to how the Minister for Infrastructure intends to deal with East Coast Line. It's interesting how these two paths are connected. The Minister for Infrastructure must be responsible for what intentions you have and when Norrbotniabanan will be ready. Maybe it won't be until 2050. Whoever's alive will see.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-550	Madam President, I would like I note that it is under this government, a social democratic government, that the Norrbotnia Line has once again entered national planes. Other parties chose to lift it out. Now we've taken the shovel. It is now Norrbotniabanan both being designed and starting to be built. The January agreement provides for the construction and planning of Norrbotniabanan to be intensified. It is an incredibly important investment, not only for northern Sweden but for the whole of Sweden. It is now the largest railway investment in modern times. This is because we need to change the transport systems in order to meet the climate requirements. This is done to enable us to live up to our commitments under the Paris Agreement. But it is also done to strengthen competitiveness throughout Sweden and ensure that a population of over 10.2 million can have good opportunities to transport both themselves and relatives and friends climate smart. This is where it happens. It is now that investments are taking place, with 100 billion more in national planes than when we had an alliance government. The process is so that the government will return with an infrastructure bill in spring and with the next national plan in 2022. The Government will then provide information on the further development of the Swedish transport system. But I don't think anyone doubts – yes, possibly Patrik Jönsson, but no one else – about this government's willingness to work and ensure the future of the Norrbotnia Line. It is important for both northern Sweden and all of Sweden.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-553	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me whether I and the government intend to take steps to facilitate the sale of train tickets. It should be easy to travel climate smart. However, travelling over long distances by public transport may mean that the traveller must seek information or buy a trip in several different channels. Within the framework of the January Agreement, a national ticketing system has been analysed in a study that submitted its report in April 2020. During the summer, the report has been referred, and the proposals of the investigation, together with the comments of the referral, are now being prepared within the Government Office. According to the January agreement, the government must also act to make it easier to book a trip abroad by train. In a first step, Trafikanalyse has carried out a current situation analysis. The government is also pushing the issue at European level, not least during the current European Year of Railways. Finally, several online services have been developed recently which have made it easier for travellers to book their tickets. The question of how the government should act to make it easier to book trips abroad is still being prepared within the Government Office.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-556	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister for Infrastructure. On this issue, at least on our part, there is a reason to be humble. This is about opening up to competition in the rail market in Sweden. We chose a different path from what they did in Norway when they liberalised their rail market. There they lifted the ticket sales in a separate unit to open up and make it easier to book all the different competitors in the same system. Here they chose to keep SJ. If you look with your hand in the eye, it would probably be good to choose another solution. SJ's dominant position and almost monopoly in ticket sales have caused some problems as it opts out of some competitors who are unable to sell their tickets through SJ's reservation system. It makes competition more difficult and puts us at a disadvantage when booking. Traffic analysis report, to which the Minister refers, is very interesting. It states that the situation needs to change. However, Trafikanalys says no to any form of government travel agency activity or booking service. The risk is that it needs to be subsidised. It can also compete with other private commercial operators who want to be able to open up for ticketing. For example, as the investigation itself points out, problems may arise as a result of the need to subsidise the State travel agency. The construction risks distorting competition between operators in the open travel agency market. The challenge is to open the ticket booking of trains. As the Minister states, it is both a national and an EU issue. Even though there are difficulties, aviation shows that it is possible. That market consists of a lot of private companies flying all over the world, with airports, exchanges and various streets. Yet it is easy for any of us to book tickets with just a few keystrokes on several different platforms and also get a very good overview of which travel options are available and even how much CO2 emissions they generate. It is important that we find a similar system when it comes to train tickets. It is important that we as politicians point out the direction. It must be as easy to book a train ticket as it is to book a flight ticket if, for example, you want to go to Italy. The question is: What is the government's view? If we talk about a national ticketing system, it will be the state travel agency that Trafikanaly advises against. Is it prepared to open up to another type of sale where other players can enter the market? It is a very important question of principle how to land on this issue. It can determine quite a lot ahead when it comes to finding different variants of commercial solutions. The risk of a government travel agency or a national ticketing system is the exclusion of other operators who can come up with smart solutions.
i-VLSv8evpEUMS2HRxcD2Niz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the commitment and the interpellation! I think it's important. You can only see over the years how more new digital platforms for ticket sales have developed. This is linked to the increased interest in rail travel. Then I'm impressed with how SJ has worked. They have systematically for a long time with their own resources built up a platform that provides very good service to travellers. I hope it inspires other companies to also take their responsibility in expanding good services to customers. That's how a company should work. Here you can feel a pride when a state-owned company is very successful in developing good services for us as travelers that will give us good booking opportunities both nationally and, as I understand it, perhaps now also internationally. The government strives and wants to develop more trips to Europe and not least night trains. I guess it's only good if we can get simplified options to book tickets. There's still some trouble left. This is why we have both appointed the investigation that has now been referred to the national ticketing system and given the assignment to Trafikanalys. I share the view that this is not the time to create a state travel agency. I think those days are over. The starting point must be that we have several different actors who now use the information available to find smart and good applications for Maria Stockhaus and me when we're going to travel both in the country and abroad. There are no plans to find that kind of organization. On the other hand, it is important to learn from the experience. During the European Year of Railways, we can surely follow how several different countries work with their different ticketing systems. I hope that international players in the EU will find better opportunities to share information between each other so that it will be easier to find long journeys without having to make multiple ticket purchases. Here, the flight is a forerunner. Air travel may have some other things to pick up in terms of climate change. But that's where you get started too. As far as the ticketing system is concerned, aviation is a model. I am now pleased that SJ and several other actors are working systematically to simplify the ticket booking system and provide good service to us as travellers. To be honest, I also believe – but perhaps more than a belief than a position from the government – that we will have a situation where passengers make increased demands on service and information. This applies not only when you arrive but also what happens during the trip. Where are the connectivity options? A digital shift is now taking place that creates better opportunities. Perhaps it is even the case that new types of service companies are emerging that are working to pass on and refine that information. I welcome the developments we have seen. I also think that Trafikanalys shows this in its report. Several initiatives are now being taken both from large players such as SJ and from actors who come as newcomers in the railway market but who use the information available to offer good packages and good offers to customers. Since this will basically simplify the conditions for more people to travel climate smart, I am very much in favour of this. The train boom we could see before the pandemic I think will continue. More people want to travel. Many long, not least now, for travel to become possible. But they want to travel climate smart. Let's find apps that make a clear declaration on which trips are climate-smart!
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-574	Madam President, I would like Sj.se has created some problems on the market. It would not have been as problematic if it had been clear that they were selling their tickets and possibly additional tickets. When they choose to include some of their competitors in their system and not others, it becomes problematic. Then they control a little other actors' opportunities to contribute with travel on equal terms. One wish is that you can streamline sj.se's mission or during a transitional period let in competitors other than the selection of competitors that SJ thinks fit into their system. At present, it has an exclusion effect. I believe that the Minister for Infrastructure is closing the door for a state travel agency, and I thank you for that. This would not have been the right way to go in view of all that is happening, not least in the app market. There may be several such solutions, and I know that more people are interested in the more well-known ones on the airside, without mentioning any names. The problem is that there must be a business case for them. There must be a chance to make some money at the margin, just like any travel agency. Then there's a problem. It is partly about SJ's high demands when it comes to being a retailer for their tickets, and there you need to think about what the requirements should look like. Shouldn't more people have the opportunity to sell, and shouldn't you open up to it? Then you may need to discuss what SJ's responsibility is if something happens to these actors. There, something needs to be done for more people to sell SJ's tickets. The second part is that if you are going from Årjäng to Hamburg, for example, you also need to travel with regional traffic. And most regional airlines refuse to make any kind of kickback or financial solution with discounts or other for those who might sell their tickets. This is also something you need to look at, for the reasonable thing is that I should be able to go from door to door. Not everyone lives on a railway line that goes all the way, but you may also have to go by public transport. Then it should be easy to get a ticket for the whole whether there are several players, just as it is when you switch between airlines when you fly. That is an important issue that has been raised, and it is incredibly important if this market is to get off the ground and if these players are to come up with – those who really want to find smart solutions for us travelers when booking train tickets. They must be given the right economic conditions and, above all, it is the public sector that needs to be considered. How do you get to this so they're willing to open up to this? With regard to the issue of the ticketing system both at European and Swedish level, I cannot help but think that is where the key is to get people to travel more trains out in Europe. I myself have tried to book train tickets in Europe, and it takes a small doctoral thesis to do so. There are also different tickets, which means that no one is responsible for the whole of the trip. There's a lot of uncertainty if things happen and there'll be delays along the way. Who is responsible for ensuring that I arrive? You don't have that problem when you fly. What's happening in this market is strange. Hundreds of millions are being spent on purchasing train journeys that will end in Hamburg or Brussels. There is still a lot of money, which could be spent on other things when this is a market that really needs to be opened up with a clearer and easier ticketing.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-583	Madam President, and Maria Stockhaus. As far as procurement is concerned, it is done because the market is not there. When it comes to the procurement of night rail services, it is done because there are few commercial operators who take that risk or challenge. I believe that the state there can lead the way by purchasing, and then it is free for operators to be involved in that procurement. We show the way and open up new routes, but there is no end in the fact that the state should, by extension, stand and guarantee this type of travel. I hope that travel will take on so that it is carried on its own commercial terms. When it comes to SJ's ticketing system, it is of course SJ's own decision. This is the company's own business that they have developed, and that I think you can be impressed and inspired by. SJ has developed a service to customers that is very well functioning. I hope that other players in both the Swedish and European rail markets see this and put their own energy and resources into developing their ticketing systems, or that we get new players in the market who want to find opportunities to provide good customer offers. That is where I expect the market to be able to act and ensure that new ways are found. As I said, basically I am positive. That is what I am because, in recent years, we have seen a sharp increase in interest in rail travel. Not least, this government has stimulated this. There is a curiosity about night trains out to Europe and about the development and investigation of a national ticketing system to facilitate travel within Sweden between the different public transport areas. There is a great interest because more people want to travel climate smart. This is a work that we will continue to do, and I welcome the fact that we have more different input and views in that discussion.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-588	Madam President, I would like SJ is a state-owned company that shuts out competitors on the market from the ticketing system, which makes it a distorted competition. A state-owned company can be managed through government ownership control. It is clear that SJ should be operated on market terms, but when they deliberately take in certain competitors and shut others out of their ticketing system, I might think that one should act as a state owner. Otherwise, I thank you for a good debate. I think we're both very interested in this. Working within the EU to get a ticketing system and make it easier is something that we Moderates are also driving. I understand that it is not simply because there are many countries that have not come as far in terms of liberalisation. At the same time, however, it is extremely doubtful that money is being spent on subsidising what will be, to a large extent, night - train holidays. There are other things in our infrastructure that it feels more important to put gunpowder on, and then it is better to ensure that we get a good ticket system so that it is easy to book. Let us use our tax money in a different way so that we can add it, for example, to what we discussed on the radio this morning: to maintain our roads or our rails, if we want to stick to the railways. But I think we agree on the objective, and it is that it should be easy to book train trips – as easy as it is to book flights out in the world. Then sj.se is a key, where the company currently shuts out its competitors. That is something you have to address when making a proposal for a national ticketing system. It must be competition on equal terms, and other players must be allowed to operate cross-cutting ticketing systems which, in that case, cover more players.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-592	Madam President, I would like I think we agree, Maria Stockhaus, that it is important to develop good opportunities for customers to buy tickets. But as I said, I am impressed by the work that SJ is doing, and I am proud that a state-owned company is developing good ticketing systems and service to passengers. There are other state-owned companies that also have the opportunity to take their own responsibility and build their own platforms for own resources. I believe that this is how a market works; operators have a responsibility to develop their own platforms in the best possible way, whether they are operators who have been on the market before or who are new entrants. I think that's how it should work. As far as night trains are concerned, I regret that the Moderates do not see the point of the state sometimes taking the lead in opening markets. Night rail traffic to Europe has been closed for a long time. We've had an operator, Snail Train, who's done an incredibly good job. But they have only been able to do so in certain seasons. Now we go in with public money and make a procurement that opens up the opportunity for night trains out to Europe. The ambition is that it should prove attractive and that more people choose that path. In that case, it is not an end in itself that the State should, in the long run, provide procurement funds. If, then, there are operators who, on good commercial grounds, can operate the service, that is very good. But to get you started, I think the government has a responsibility. In this way, Sweden as a nation has developed very strongly. The state has sometimes developed new services and conditions as a client. The whole of our pharmaceutical industry, our defence industry and sometimes also the automotive industry are good examples of this. The resistance of the Moderates to night trains puzzles me, because I think it should still be in the interests of all Swedes that we develop better opportunities for contact with the outside world. Thank you for a good discussion!
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-598	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to promote a more effective management of matters in forestry matters, whether I have made a position in relation to the Forest Investigation's proposal to shorten the processing time for logging notifications and what initiatives I intend to take to promote that new generations become forest owners. The Government has entrusted the Authority with implementing, within the framework of the national forestry programme, measures that provide concrete simplifications for entrepreneurs and are trust building in response and service to contribute to sustainable business development in 2021. The measures aim to increase the efficiency of forest owners' contacts with the Swedish Forest Agency and other authorities, and to provide better and simpler support for decisions that promote active and sustainable forestry, in order to make it easier to achieve forest policy's production and environmental objectives. Recently, the Forest Investigation report Strengthened ownership, flexible forms of protection and conservation in forests (SOU 2020:73) has been submitted to the government. As the Forest Investigation proposal is prepared in the Government Office, I will not precede this process. I would like to stress the importance of now creating the right incentives for sustainable forestry. The decisions we make today will take into account our needs now and in the future, which includes creating the conditions for new generations of forest owners in Sweden to operate in good conditions.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-602	Madam President, I would like With my interpellation, I want to raise a problem that forest owners face around Sweden, namely the exercise of authority. Annette and Peter are two of the country's many skilled and thorough forest owners. After a roundover, they bought forest and needed to finance it with felling. The purchased forest was assessed as productive forest land by the Swedish Forest Board. So far it was no problem. But all of a sudden it took a new turn. The land, recently assessed as productive forest land, was now considered by a new administrator to be subject to inventory and review. Thus, demands were received from the Swedish Forest Board for nature conservation agreements in the forest area, and on parts of the forest land was waiting for an administrative nightmare. The felling notification was made in January 2020, and it was then announced quite immediately that the area also contained ancient monuments and was covered by the Ancient Memorial Act. The agency also made a field visit. Two months later, the authority announced that 44 trees had been found that the landowner, threatened with a penalty payment, was not allowed to fell because of natural values. This was something that the couple already knew and had pointed out in their application. The couple then turned to the County Administrative Board to examine the consequences of the area being covered by the Ancient Memorial Act. The County Administrative Board's decision was then that risk trees needed to be taken down, as they otherwise risked damaging the ancient remains. Not felling the trees would mean big whites. After the couple had been thrown back and forth between authorities with conflicting comments, they finally had the go - ahead after six months. During this period, the couple had to bear loans whose interest had been effective — loans that would have been paid with the income that a felling would have brought. This is a very strange story. One authority says: You must not fell a single tree, for then it will be expensive white. The other authority says: You have to fell trees, otherwise it will be expensive whites. Madam President, I would like Here we can talk about a moment 22 – a total confusion! The Kafka-like process that the couple have endured illustrates the reality that our forest owners have to deal with. Annette and Peter are not alone in lengthy processes after a logging notification. This case is just one in a variety of stories that I have received. These are authorities that change their decisions, which makes forest owners feel insecure in their ownership. As Annette and Peter say: If they had known about this from the beginning, perhaps they would have done in a different way. I believe that this is an example of the exercise of authority that has gone beyond control. My question to the Government is: What precise measures is the Government prepared to take to promote more effective management of forest affairs?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-609	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! The example mentioned by Magnus Oscarsson is, of course, not something that anyone is behind. It is of course troubling for individuals when they get caught. At the same time, forest owners and traders sometimes have to deal with different legislations. Sometimes rules can be contradictory and cause problems. This is something that we must gradually work to eliminate. The best way to do this is by developing administrative cooperation even more and also reviewing rules and working with regulatory simplification as an instrument. This is something that this government makes very broad. For example, the Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked with looking at simplification measures, and when it comes to cooperation between authorities, I think there are 19 different authorities to make proposals about. In the food strategy, we have a clear, concrete mission that develops this for that sector. With regard to the forest, which is, of course, an example, part of the Forest investigation is to look at ownership issues and strengthen ownership. It is perhaps not primarily a question of eliminating problems and obstacles, even if this is part of it, but more of ensuring that a reasonable payment is made for forests that cannot be used for various reasons. The example here is that you can and cannot farm the forest. Above all, it is probably the processing time that is worrying. However, although this example is upsetting enough for everyone who listens, I would like to say that the normal processing time today is six weeks in the case of larger volumes – I think it applies to areas over half a hectare. Normally, it won't take longer than that. The forestry investigation also proposes that it should be three weeks instead, and that is, of course, part of the processing process that is now under way. I can also say that this normally works well. It works far better than in this story. It is nevertheless important to include this in the further discussion. For example, 60 000 notification cases concerning felling were received in 2020. Of these, 3 000 supervisory cases were carried out. Of them, 600 led to various forms of decision, of which 218 were prohibitions, for example in connection with injunctions for protected species. For every individual trader who is affected when it does not work, it is of course a huge problem, but on the whole I would like to say that it works reasonably well. Nevertheless, it is important that we continue to work with, above all, cooperation between authorities, which means that we do not end up in a situation where different quantities are set against each other, as in this example. Here, the Swedish Forest Board has taken its own initiatives to develop appropriate authority management, and the purpose of this is to automate and digitise a larger part of the cases, so that they go faster. These are matters on which there is no reason to spend so much time. This frees up time to be able to work more effectively with the matters that need to be reviewed. This allows both the review to be speeded up and to have relevant dialogues with other authorities and stakeholders, for example. The question is therefore important. It is not acceptable when it does not work. But I think we're on the ball.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-619	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is, as the Minister says, that it works in the majority of cases. But unfortunately it gets wrong from time to time, not just for Annette and Peter. It is good, as the Minister says, that the Forests Board is talking about this, but I still think there is a homework to do. When they came to buy the land, they got the go-ahead that it was productive forest land. All of a sudden it wasn't anymore. Madam President, I would like The minister was talking about the Forest investigation. I think it's interesting. It has recently been handed over to the government. There are suggestions for the end of the key biotop inventory. I think that's good-- really good. Many forest owners have been hard hit by the fact that productive forest land has been biotop rated. The landowner owns forest, but no one wants to harvest biotope classified forest, and no forest company wants to buy such forest. I have had the opportunity to listen to landowners who have been extremely hard hit by having their forest classified in this way. This may, for example, make it difficult for a generational shift. Madam President, I would like Today, I notice that there is a great deal of concern among many landowners that ownership is in danger. I'm going to go into it a little bit, because I'm willing to agree with that. If I owned land with mountain forest I would be really worried about a proposal from the Forest Investigation. The proposal from the investigator is that the state should take over and buy land that today is owned by 5 700 forest owners. The proposal means that some will receive replacement land from the state, sometimes miles away from their property, but it does not apply to everyone. Those who are not offered replacement land will of course receive compensation for their forest, but that 中 s it. It may be real estate that has existed for generations, but according to the proposal, the state will take over the land and become a new owner. I think it sounds terrible. The right of ownership is completely compromised. What is the choice of the landowner who does not want this? My questions to the Minister are: Will the government proceed with this proposal from the Forest Investigation about buying in mountain-side forest land? What will happen to all the information available after the inventory of forest owners' land? Will they be thrown away, or will they remain available to the Authority in the future?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-625	Madam President and Magnus Oscarsson! Magnus Oscarsson now switches over to talk about the Forest investigation, which in some sense is reasonably understood that we are talking about forests. That's the big question right now, isn't it? We have recently received the final report of the Forest Investigation. It came just before Christmas – 30 November, I think. We sent it out for a referral a few weeks ago, mid-February. So it's out for a referral right now. Of course, I will not put my foot down and precede that process, but it is now important to listen to the consultation bodies. It is also important that we have a political discussion. I believe that one of the most important things is that we create long-term rules of play – it has been a long-standing lack of this – for forests and forest development. We can only do that if we find as much a common denominator as possible between us in politics. That's the way it is, if you're gonna be all crass. Anything which is not in a position to live for more than four years and which will then be subjected to possible new governments or new majorities in this House is by definition short-sighted. This is particularly true if we are talking about forests, where investments are often large and the dividends come far in the future. It is therefore a starting point. We will listen to the consultation bodies, and we need to have a serious political discussion about what we want with the forest in the future. My starting point when it comes to the Forest Investigation is that you need to see the Forest Investigation as a whole. I note that many parties, at least initially, choose to position themselves on their input values. I think that's reasonable. But at the same time it is like this: In a negotiation or when to find a common solution, it is rarely or never about someone getting exactly what it wants. Nevertheless, I think we can agree, Magnus Oscarsson and I, that the forest has many great values that we need to consider wisely together in order to deliver what we in politics have the responsibility to deliver. Of course we should live up to international commitments. We will protect valuable forests according to what is required of us. However, there is one issue which is a secondary point to this. It concerns reporting at national level on how much we protect. Are we good, or are we bad? Are we reporting as other countries report? Here I have given a commission to do an analysis of how the reporting looks and compares with comparable and for Sweden interesting countries in this context. And proposals should be made if we do not report in an equivalent way. Then we have the facts at the bottom when we discuss the matter further. Of course, forests are important for climate and climate change. The forest is affected by climate change at once. We see spruce bark drilling and forest fires as a result of a changed climate. It contributes to some extent to climate emissions. Above all, however, we can contribute to climate change. If we're to phase out fossils, we need to replace them with wise things. Here the forest is an important part. At the same time, the forest, at least for me as a social democrat, also stands for jobs and growth. I think that this perspective is partly lacking in this context. We need to have a discussion on how we ensure that value added in Swedish forests is as high as possible. All in all, you need to weigh totals.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-634	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer! I think it is relevant to go into the Forest investigation, because what Annette and Peter have experienced is about ownership. Just as the Minister is concerned, it is also about long-termism. They would know that what they bought was what they had been promised when they would buy it. So I think this is very relevant. Ownership is an important issue. The issue of the inventory that has been carried out is also important. I would like to have an answer to that question. What does the government think about what has been brought in, so to speak? Is it somehow to be hidden or thrown away? Or will it remain available to the Authority in the future? I think it's good that the Minister talks so much about ownership. I think that's great. However, I have a feeling that many people are unsure whether the whole government is as clear as the Government. After all, representatives of the other government party seem to have a completely different agenda, both in terms of ownership and when it comes to more forest – there is actually talk about thousands of hectares of forest – being nationalised through nature reserves. But I'm going back to the Forest investigation. Another suggestion is that the processing time for decisions on felling should be shortened, as the Minister was aware, from six to three weeks after the logging notification has been made. This is positive, but the reduced processing time is, however, proposed to be conditional on increased knowledge requirements and increased responsibility for forest owners to account for the natural and cultural environmental values involved in the measure in question. The fact that, as you would like in the investigation, forest owners are required to obtain knowledge either from themselves or be bought by consultants will inevitably raise the threshold for people in new generations to become forest owners. This applies both economically and in terms of knowledge. The question is: Has the Government made a position in relation to the Forest Investigation's proposal to shorten the processing time when it comes to logging notifications and that there should be a knowledge requirement?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-640	Madam President, I would like I think the President hears that this is an issue that engages and touches on. Time is short, really too short to have a serious debate. However, as I said earlier, we received the report of the investigation as late as the end of November. It's a referral right now. I do not think it is serious to break out certain parts and tell you exactly how to do it, because then you have preceded what the referral bodies think. Nor do I think that a political debate can be preceded. However, like Magnus Oscarsson, I note that several parties, including Magnus Oscarsson, quickly positioned themselves very clearly in a corner on these issues. I find that unfortunate. I think that we as politicians have a responsibility to try to ensure that we deliver a whole. Somewhere I imagine that interest still exists. I imagine that we all understand that we must both ensure the functioning of ecosystems and live up to the international commitments we have, because if we do not, our forests will not be marketable in a market. At the same time, we in Sweden are good at this – we should not buy the arguments that the development is bad or going in the wrong direction, because 60 percent of Swedish forests are today already certified, for example. At the moment, of course, I cannot answer the specific question of what happens, for example, to the key biotopes. The investigation suggests that this should be discontinued, and the government has already discontinued the extended key biotop inventory. At the same time, knowledge is of course very important for us to be able to make relevant and good decisions. The forest should be sufficient, and to make the right decisions – and above all to protect from quality and not from volume – it is of course important that we ensure that the knowledge comes in somehow. However, it should be wise and smart.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-644	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me whether, in the light of what has been said, I intend to take some initiatives to prepare reliefs for Sweden in relation to the European Commission's decree on the late submission of data to the CDB register and whether I have taken the view that this kind of decree harmonizes with the food strategy adopted by Parliament. I fully understand that the sanctions and deductions that Magnus Oscarsson points out are perceived as burdensome by farmers, and I agree that the rules need to be changed. We have also presented this to the European Commission. The register of animals, the CDB, fulfils several urgent objectives and needs to be updated in order, among other things, to act as a tracking tool in the event of outbreaks of animal diseases. In this case, it is also a question of using the register as a basis for the bovine premium and that it needs to be updated in order for the payments to be correct. However, sanctions for farmers when they do not report in time must be reasonable. In the type of system we use for the aid, there is no reason for such a severe penalty. In Sweden, we have so far not applied the sanction on cattle payments in late reporting to the CDB. In an audit of the implementation of the EU's common agricultural policy in Sweden, the European Commission pointed out that Sweden's interpretation was not in line with their interpretation. The National Agriculture Agency then maintained the Swedish interpretation, but after the case had gone to the Commission's conciliation body, we had to change the application. This autumn, the Commission opened up the regulation regulating sanctions and proposed certain amendments. The government then tabled concrete amendments to the effect that late reporting should not lead to sanctions if a support system such as ours is applied. We have also pointed out the absurdity of inheriting misdemeanours from a previous animal owner and thus losing support for that animal. We have had a dialogue with the Commission, but unfortunately it is difficult to hear – especially as other Member States do not seem to see these problems. Nevertheless, the Commission's proposal contained a number of positive changes to the rules, including a milder scale of sanctions. These rules have just been adopted and can be applied already for the current support period, which started on 1 August 2020. The example given in the interpellation will then no longer be sanctioned. The government has, of course, supported this change. Simplifications and a reasonable system of control and sanctioning are priorities for the government for the implementation of the strategic plan in the next programming period. With the new management model proposed for the EU's common agricultural policy, Member States are given greater scope to design policies, and this could give us some opportunities to adapt control and sanction systems to Swedish conditions. How much change we can make in practice is still unclear, but this is something that the government and the National Agricultural Board are investigating. Both in the EU negotiations and in the Swedish implementation, the Government prioritises efforts to streamline regulations and avoid unnecessary administration. This priority is fully in line with the food strategy's competitiveness objectives, where simplification of the regulatory framework is an important element.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-652	Madam President, I would like We are going on with the next interpellation debate here, and I thank the Government for its answer. For bovine animals there is an obligation to report data to the bovine register, CDB. Reporting shall be carried out at birth, sale, export, purchase, import, slaughter, killing of animals and movement of animals to another keeper. Calves should be reported 20 days after birth, and other events must be reported 7 days after they occur. If the keeper does not report to the CDB 7 days after an in- or out-of-event event, the keeper will be deprived of the bovine premium that the animal feeds. Since 2015, the person receiving a bovine animal reported by the previous owner to the CDB for late mister cattle support for the animal. So you inherit someone else's misdemeanor. But that's not enough, but the Swedish Board of Agriculture's website says: At the turn of 2020/ 21, there will also be deductions on agricultural subsidies if one of the parties has not reported all animals to the CDB in time. For the farmer, reporting data to the CDB in 7 days seems to be a contrast to the farmer's having to wait, sometimes for several years, for late payments of EU payments. It is also added to everything else that farmers have to report and account for, which is a lot. For the farmer, the withdrawal of EU aid is a heavy blow to an already fragile profitability. At the slightest mistake, punishment becomes severe and an economic blow to the farmer. There is no margin of error at all. In the Minister's reply, it seems that there will be no further sanction, as the Swedish Board of Agriculture wrote on its website. Does this mean that a mistake that has been committed does not form the basis for a reduction in compensation? Is it, instead, a blank piece of paper? If so, it would be very pleasing. Can the Government explain exactly what is going on in this case?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-657	Madam President, I would like I think me and Magnus Oscarsson are very much in agreement on this issue. From a Swedish perspective, this is actually more a technical issue where Sweden and the European Commission have different views on how to apply the sanction system. The reason why Sweden has not applied the sanction system in the past is that – reasonably, given that other countries do not share our view on this – we have a different system from other countries. Our initial value is that we follow everyone in the system regardless, which means that there is no cheating in our system. That is why we have not applied the sanction until we were backed up by the Commission, which does not accept that we have the position we have. This coincides with the fact that the Commission is making some relief in the form of the aid scheme. I understand that this will be difficult and confusing for the individual farmer, because although there will be relief in the system in the form of less severe sanctions – for example, one makes an exception and says that minor errors involving one to three animals need not be sanctioned, which means that the farmer would not have to be sanctioned in the very example you mentioned, Magnus Oscarsson – it coincides with the fact that Sweden still needs to introduce the sanction scale. This means that a Swedish farmer still receives sanctions. There will be new rules to relate to, and if the farmer does not report in time, there will be consequences that did not exist before. A Swedish farmer has never experienced the even harsher sanctions that existed, so even if the sanctions are made milder, the farmer is punished with a sanction that has not existed before. This is troubling. We have spent a lot of effort and time trying to explain to the Commission why this is a bad system from a Swedish perspective. The Board of Agriculture ran as far as it was possible that we would have our exception, but this was not heard. In the CAP negotiations, we have pushed that small errors should not lead to major sanctions. It has been more linked to cross-compliance discussions, but it is also relevant in this area. Of course, there should be sanctions if there are rules, but they must be proportionate to the error that has been committed. I think two things are important. One is to explore all possibilities to exploit the new regulatory framework on which this new CAP will be built. It will not regulate in detail as much, we hope, when the trilogue negotiations are completed. Instead, target management is to take place, thus giving nations a pronounced greater opportunity to draw up their own national strategic plans. We hope that these issues will be dealt with, but it is difficult to say because the issues have not yet been negotiated. The second is to continue developing the tools that already exist, such as reminders. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has a service that allows you to receive SMS reminders on every occasion that you should report. It works well – if they can work well, I'll tell you. You must have done the first reporting to make it work. When a calf is born, the Swedish Board of Agriculture does not know it until it has been registered for the first time. Once you have registered once, there is an automatic. When an animal is sold, the Swedish Board of Agriculture does not know about it until it has received the first report that the animal has been sold. Once the work has received the report, reminders work well.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-664	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I think the Minister's response shows that the government is acting, and that is important. However, I think that many people feel insecure about what is going forward, and it is important to get the information from the Swedish Agriculture Agency to our skilled farmers. Let us talk a little about the food strategy, which I think the Minister is discussing a lot. In June this year, it is four years since a united House adopted the food strategy, and it was a very important step in the right direction. A farmer has told me that the policy used to talk about phasing out Swedish agriculture, and now the policy is talking about developing agriculture. There's a big difference. The cornerstones were that there should be more profitability in agriculture, to strengthen competitiveness and to increase self-sufficiency in food. One part of coping with this was to review the rule and rigid bureaucracy. What has happened since we adopted the strategy? There is one example we are talking about tonight, given the rigidity. The Minister is aware that the EU is very unclear, but at the same time I can imagine that the government can tap up a little. To me, the decrees and the bureaucracy are a contrast to the food strategy that we have adopted. Can the Minister point out measures taken to reduce the regulatory burden? When I talk to farmers around Sweden, everyone says the same thing, namely that profitability must increase. Why do we still see after almost four years that the food strategy makes no difference to us at farm level? I know that the Government must have met the same questions from farmers. What are you doing? Point to examples that have made a difference. Can the Minister point out three areas where the food strategy has so far made a difference for Swedish farmers at farm level?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-671	Madam President, I would like Both me and Magnus Oscarsson often and gladly discuss the food strategy. I think part of the success is that there are many of us who do. I share Magnus Oscarsson's view that it was extremely crucial that Sweden for the first time ever had a long-term strategy for how to develop Swedish agriculture. I believe that one reason why, for example, countries such as Denmark, Belgium, Holland and Germany, which are similar to us in a lot of other things, have nevertheless had higher value added and have been more successful in developing the sector, is that they have come together nationally on these issues. It was not a day too early when the strategy was adopted. A strategy is by its nature long-term. Much of the problems of profitability that we see today are due to the fact that we did not make the right investments five, ten, fifteen or twenty years ago. Much of what we are doing now will not appear to be day one for agriculture. Having said that, we are still doing a number of different things that should have an impact at farm level here and now. One such question, for example, is the rule issues. There are clear assignments for a number of different agencies, with the Swedish Agency for Growth at the head, to work on simplifying the rules, simplifying administrative contacts, establishing coordination functions between agencies so that you do not have to provide information on several occasions. We have in the near future decided on the ex post charging of food controls. It's a concrete thing. We have also clearly worked with export issues. If we are to talk profitability, it is about ensuring that there is a market that wants to pay. The Swedish market is small, especially if you want to work with highly refined products that will require a high value. Then we need to ensure that market shares in the world can be gained in this area, which is an ambition of the food strategy. Export access has been very important. There is the example that last year we got an export access with the Philippines, which means that we can export pieces that are not in demand on the Swedish market. They are ground down and can then be sold at a higher conditioned value, and this means increasing the profitability of Swedish agriculture. We are looking at markets to develop this opportunity. For example, Singapore and Vietnam are interesting markets in this context, and there is far-reaching work in this area. There are also more, and it is an ongoing work. I still believe that we should not lose sight of the long-term nature of this. I understand the need to see results here and now, but I believe that what really makes a difference over time is to strengthen value added and the conditions for value added in Swedish food production. One area that, in my opinion, has been underdeveloped over time compared to others for Sweden's important sectors is research and innovation. It is therefore gratifying that in the recent proposal for research and innovation presented by Matilda Ernkrans, the green sectors receive significantly greater contributions than before via Formas for food development. This is more than 500 million over a four-year period.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-678	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister, which contained interesting things. I understand farmers in Sweden who feel frustration. There's talk about everything that's happening, but nothing's happening in their wallets. I understand the frustration, and here the government would have to snap up. The Christian Democrats have suggestions for what can be done to support and help Swedish farmers. Another thing that I am thinking about and the Minister is that we are not the first to do this. The Alliance government also removed rules. Now we've removed the rules! they said – and then there were two new ones. You remove one rule, and then there's two new ones. That is what is so difficult, and that is what the Minister is facing. That is what the Minister is talking about: you make things easier, and that's even tougher rules. Of course it's not good. What agriculture wants is clarity and simplicity. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. This is not how you feel that it is today, but you feel that regulations are increasing and bureaucracy is growing while profitability is decreasing and not strengthening. I think it's really important that the government thinks about how to show this. I hear when I meet farmers that it is important to do it now. I will have Milk's Day here in Parliament on 17 March, although it will be digital this time. The issue of regulatory requirements and the food strategy will be the main issue this year. It will be interesting to see what we come up with that day with all the dairy farmers.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-684	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for a good debate on an important issue! I'll try to stretch over as many things as possible as I haven't got this far. To begin with, I can only say that yes, that is a very important question. But I think that much of the solution, also given what Magnus Oscarsson says, is about creating good systems to make it easy to do the right thing. We're talking about producing food – something that people should put in their bodies – and animal husbandry and so on. I believe that increasingly conscious consumers, who are important as a target group in driving the development of Swedish production, also require that there be security and security around it. Add to that that we are harmonizing with a world around us. The EU is no less bureaucratic than Sweden, but more bureaucratic, and if you want to export to new markets, you should relate to new rules and so on. Digital systems and platforms that make it easy, I think, are the most important thing in this context, and that is where we are also investing. To move on to profitability, I just want to say that developments are moving in the right direction. We see a trend break for the first time in a very long time, as profitability is now increasing in most sectors – despite the Corona, in fact. Of course, it should not be said that it is only an effect of the food strategy, but I think it contributes. Exports are clearly increasing. The export value has increased by more than 10 billion since 2017. Nevertheless, we have as our goal and ambition that it should increase from 30% to 50%, so we are in no way in port. But when you measure how Swedish agriculture is doing, you can see that all parameters show either unchanged or positive development from a stagnant or negative – in the last 20 years, in any case. That's how far I have measurement statistics. I think we should take this along and communicate together, because it also creates confidence in the future in this industry.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-690	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to work to strengthen the security of farmers with animal husbandry in rural areas and how I intend to work to encourage the start-up of farms with animal husbandry in rural areas. I agree that it is important to have a living countryside and that good conditions are needed to start and run farming with animal husbandry in Sweden. Let me emphasise that the government takes seriously the fact that, in order to achieve political ends, someone is harassing, threatening or, at worst, harming other people. Society must work on these issues on a broad front. The government has taken a number of measures to ensure that this type of crime is effectively dealt with by the judiciary. For example, a priority work is under way within the Government Office to review the provisions on home peace offences and illegal trespassing. The work involves considering the scope of the criminal provisions, whether grounds of qualification for serious crime should be introduced and whether the scale of penalties should be tightened. A mbition is that proposals should be sent for consultation to the relevant authorities and organisations for comments during the spring. In the case of predatory attacks, the proposal sets out a sustainable predatory policy (prop. 2012/ 13:191) that Sweden should achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status for the predator strains, while keeping domestic animals is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. The statistics show that predatory attacks on domestic animals have declined in recent years, partly because animal owners have put up predator-rejected fences. The key to more people wanting to invest in agriculture is that it is attractive and profitable. The national food strategy with a view to 2030 has as its overall objective a competitive food chain where total food production increases while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development across the country. The Food Strategy Action Plans contain a large number of measures taken at both national and regional level to ensure generally good business conditions for the food chain. The Food Strategy Action Plan Part 2 contains long-term measures equivalent to SEK 122 million annually until 2025. In addition, additional investments of a total of SEK 114 million were made in 2020. The budget proposal for 2021 added an additional SEK 74 million for 2021 to strengthen work on the food strategy, and for the years 2022 and 2023 the corresponding amount is calculated. The proposed measures together form an action plan part 3. In working on the future CAP, the conditions and regulatory simplification of enterprises are also an important starting point. The Government has commissioned the National Agriculture Agency to submit proposals for future measures. The mission includes proposing measures for start-up and facilitating generational change. These may include start-up aid, income support and investment aid for young people. The Government has also commissioned the National Board of Agriculture to set up a simplification group with representatives of both entrepreneurs and authorities to assist the work with analyses and proposals to further simplify future agricultural policy. My assessment is that these measures together will contribute to a better security and to facilitate start-ups in the way requested by Marléne Lund Kopparklint.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-698	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In the Swedish countryside there are many people who farm with animal husbandry. Unfortunately, today there are several obstacles that make it more difficult. It is unnecessary regulations that are complicated and documentation that takes a lot of time that could otherwise be spent on developing the business. There have also been signals that when a farmer encounters repeated incidents – external influences such as animal activism, predator attacks, etc. – that put an end to the activity, it is difficult to get quick help from the state and help with preventive measures so that it will not happen again. I'd like to stay for predator attacks, given that I'm from Värmland. Madam President, I would like I wonder if the Minister for Rural Development has really stopped and wondered why all these questions about the wolf are being raised all the time. It is because there are a large number of people, including voters, who experience enormous insecurity and contact us elected representatives to hear. You feel fear, frustration and hopelessness. Madam President, I would like We need to move forward at some point in the predatory debate, this endless debate, not least in order for people in rural areas to have confidence in Parliament and for us to put their security first. The sad thing about it is that the government does not take this issue seriously. It is strange, because a living countryside is important for Sweden. In order for it to become so, it is important that both new and old farms are both inspired and encouraged to run businesses and that you feel safe in running these companies. This is fundamental in order to give other people inspiration to take the step of starting new businesses or taking over and running family businesses that are handed down. Now the wolf is causing great anxiety and damage in the countryside, especially in my county. We are often told about sheep farmers whose animals are attacked, about ewes who throw their fetuses and do not become pregnant and about the hunting corps – who regulate the game tribe – who get their hunting dogs killed or maimed. Preschools keep the children in the day for fear of ironing wolf in the woods just outside. Madam President, I would like How far is it really going to go before the government starts putting rural people and domestic animals before the wolf? And what are the consequences when security issues are not taken seriously? That is an important question to ask. But I do not really believe that the government wants to hear the answers, and that is why the question is never asked. Then there is the discussion that the wolf attacks are decreasing. But it is not surprising that the attacks on farm animals are decreasing when people close down their businesses in Värmland and other vargy counties in Sweden, for example, because they cannot cope with the fear and pressures that arise during a wolf attack and afterwards. If there are no animals to attack, there will be no attacks. Instead, the wolf preys on wild animals in a completely different way. If you use that argumentation, you are therefore ill-read. Wolf attacks are decreasing as farmers close down their businesses. Instead, the attacks on wild animals in the forest are increasing, and statistics do not show this.
i-DGFkHHj6YE4Z2rLoHgcbdz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the debate and the answer to Mr Marléne. Sweden is faced with a choice of routes. It is about us wanting to get more jobs in rural areas, keep food production going and have a living countryside where people have the opportunity to live and to develop their businesses. A big problem in the picture out there is the wolf. This government has been handcuffingly releasing the wolf. We made a decision in 2013 that we would have 170 – 270 wolves in Sweden. Today there are somewhere between 400 and 450 wolves. There are considerably more than Finland has, and it is also on a much smaller surface than the one where Finland has its wolves. In addition, the government, through its work with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, has also allowed that authority to release to over 300 wolves. And now they are up to a considerably larger number of wolves than the 170 – 270 that were meant to be. Then you have to start choosing. What do we want in Sweden? Do we want food production and a living countryside, or do we want a growing wolf trunk? Clearly, Madam President, this government has chosen to let the wolf tribe take precedence. I hope that the Minister has visited several of our wolf-affected farms and learned from this – where animals are torn, injured, killed and frightened to throw their fetuses, or find it difficult to get pregnant again after a wolf attack. With low profitability, people keep our land open. Pickled meadows and forests create biodiversity, and at the same time food is produced. These people are declared after wolf attacks and are considering quitting their production. Madam President, I would like These people are forced to live with the wolf. They are forced to return from their journey with anxiety in their throats because the animals may be injured or killed. Madam President, I would like For centuries we have hunted and held after the wolf tribe in Sweden to allow the countryside to have decent conditions, but this government puts the wolf in front of rural animals, biodiversity, food production, grazed pastures and people in the countryside. In short: This government is prepared to drive over the countryside and protect the wolf. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise another problem with regard to the wolf. In the event of traffic accidents when you are forced to do a search with a dog, you often have to release the dog in order for it to put the injured animal so that it can be killed. Now there are search parties who refuse to release their dogs in areas where there is wolf. This means unnecessary suffering for the animals that have been hit by cars and other vehicles. It will therefore be impossible to carry out a search. The wolf tribe must go down in Sweden, and the government must clearly tell us whether to follow the decision we have made in the Riksdag of 170 – 270 wolves or let it go and let the wolf tribe grow throughout Sweden.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-718	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Marléne Lund Kopparklint for a very important question! The honourable Member's question stretched over a number of areas, and I think it is extremely relevant to talk about a whole when it comes to being able to feel as a business in the green industries that they have good conditions for carrying out their activities. It is a question, for example, of politics and the state clearly taking responsibility when you are subjected to crime or harassment because of keeping animals. As I said in my speech, the government has done a number of different things in this area. For example, it is a matter of facilitating camera surveillance and removing authorisation requirements for it and dealing with the minimum penalty for illegal threats. The scale for serious damage was tightened in 2017. The Swedish Police Authority has been tasked with working with Säpo on these issues to develop adequate and relevant threat images in the area and models for how best to prevent and manage this type of threat, which should not occur and cannot be accepted. Within the Government Office, a joint investigation is currently under way regarding a review of the provisions on home peace offences and illegal trespassing. Here is the ambition that we should be able to refer proposals in the spring. This is important and good, and it is part of creating good conditions. Then Marléne Lund Kopparklint also raises the need to work with regulatory simplification. We are doing this in a very clear way within the framework of the Food Strategy, which in its Action Plan Part 2 had this as one of its focus areas. We have given agencies a number of different tasks that are about working on this. I think, as I said in the previous interpellation, that it is very important to look at that you have both effective and good rules and tools to make it easier to do the right thing. This is about the production of food. I think it will always be a fairly regulatory industry. There are demands from consumers, you handle animals, it should be safe and you work in a global market. Systems that only need to provide data once and that digital platforms are automated and created – i.e. tools that make it easier – are prioritised and important, and such work is underway. The latest example is that five authorities are now looking at making it easier with environmental permits, linked specifically to this industry. Then Marléne, together with Sten Bergheden, also raises the problem of predators. I have great respect for the fact that those who are traders in rural areas where there are predators feel that this is extremely problematic. However, I do not share the view that the government is doing nothing. On the contrary, we have done a great deal in this area. Now my time is almost up. I assume that the rest of the speeches will also be about wolf, so I will come back in my next speech to what we have done in this area.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-726	Madam President, I would like It is good that the government has made the efforts listed by the Minister for Rural Development. But there is a gap: predatory policy. I also hope, like Mrs Bergheden, that the Minister for Rural Development has been in contact with people who live with the wolf around the corner of the house or who have had their farm animals torn apart. I wonder if the minister has listened to the family in Skåne who came out with their children to drive them to school and found the children's beloved sheep killed and tormented by wolf. The anger, frustration, and grief they felt are difficult to describe with words if you have not experienced it yourself. The question is what all these people feel when, instead of creating security, the government twists the crane a little bit more and lets out even more of the insecurity that comes with an even larger wolf tribe, also in violation of previous parliamentary decisions. I would say that the plug has come out completely since the Social Democrats sat down with the Green Party on their knees and let them hold the helm. They have influenced the way predatory policy is to be shaped. You have done so together, but the Social Democrats are doing nothing about it – even though they know about the problem. A clear proof that politics is not sustainable is given when you look at my county of Värmland. If you look at the map of how many wolves there are, you can see how damaging the predatory policy of the government really is. There is not much surface area on the map that is not occupied by vargrevir. You can see that when sheep farm after sheep farm closes because of wolf attacks. Parents don't want to let their children play in the yard. Preschools must choose indoor play because the wolf strokes next to the farm. Then you know that something is seriously wrong, and that is why we are standing here today – again. Madam President, I would like The situation is critical. Last winter's inventories showed about 365 wolves in Sweden. In addition, a large number of puppies have been born, so the tribe should have passed 400 wolves right now. This will mean an increase to almost 450 wolves next year with the extremely limited hunting. It's a little different from what it's been like in the past. In 2013, the Swedish Parliament decided that Sweden would have 170 – 270 wolves to meet the requirements of the EU Directive for a favourable conservation status, also known as Gybs. The interval was based on the scientific analysis of the smallest viable population, MVP, which the researchers calculated would be about 100 wolf individuals. So we're talking about 100 wolves as the smallest viable population. To maintain that volume, the government decided that the favourable conservation status would be in a range of 170 to 270 individuals. With reference to this parliamentary decision, one might ask why the government has reached the number 300. Despite the government's decision to reduce the concentration of wolf, there are more vargrevir today than when the decision was made – especially in my county of Värmland, which is Sweden's most remote county. This is a development that shows that the government does not take into account either the parliamentary decision or the people who live and work with the wolf's presence around the corner. Both wolf and other large predators need to be adapted to the countryside, not the other way round.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-734	Madam President, I would like Of course, I look forward to all the good proposals that will soon come from the Minister about what they are going to do about the problem. I know the Minister will say that there will be compensation, fenced up large parts of the country and some other things, but I would like to direct with the Minister that that is not the solution. The problem is that we have too much wolf on too small a surface in Sweden. Above all, we have too much wolf in Sweden. We cannot, Madam President, fence the country in order to protect the animals we need to keep production going, manage biodiversity and ensure that we have food production in the country that is viable and that we can export food. We also know that the wolf is extremely skilled at getting through the fences. Even if you have fenced up, you feel anxious when you come home to your animal farm. You don't know what happened when you know there's a wolf in the area. Madam President, I would like Why do we need so many wolves? In the world, there are over 200,000 wolves. The wolf is not endangered. Sweden has one of Europe's most frequent areas, because we do not normally hunt the wolf as is done in the rest of Europe so that the wolves there are also more frightened. Here we see how the wolf turns more and more into settlements. They also move around wolves with helicopters and other things. Madam President, I would like Drop and don't cook with these compensations! Don't force sheep owners and others to put up a lot of fences and stuff everywhere! Instead, reduce the wolf strain! It is absolutely the simplest and most logical. One more thing: Lamb production has been declining here in the country since 2015. This is probably because the wolf is increasing and the sheep farms are dropping out.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-739	Madam President, I would like I think it's both a statement of strength and a proof of poverty that in a debate about an interpellation on security-building measures for entrepreneurs, with an approach to a holistic approach that was very positive – I was very happy when I read the interpellation – it's for two moderate wolves that are left to discuss. I also find it remarkable that Sten Bergheden is ill-read when he comes up to the speaker's chair and refers to what it looks like in different parts of Europe and pulls the whole of Europe over a head. It is neither a true nor a true picture. It is also remarkable to pretend that this is an issue in which we in Sweden have national competence to decide. It refers to a parliamentary decision that says that we should have a favourable conservation status with the wolves we have. It means simply translated that the tribe should not be inbred. That it is a reasonable requirement, I think, should be able to do so. On that occasion it was stated that this should be achieved with between 170 and 270 individuals. It has then been questioned, both by national competence and by the EU, what is required for Sweden to live up to the Species and Habitats Directive, which says that we, like all other countries in the EU, should ensure that we have a wolf population that has favourable conservation status – and then you land on a figure. We can discuss the number back and forth indefinitely. In practical terms, it is a matter of ensuring that, in order to overcome this problem, which I think is a priority to do in the future, it is necessary to ensure that the inventory is developed so that we can take stock of it via DNA – that is, more and better technology so that we can count the wolves on the basis of their DNA composition. By shooting the right wolves you can of course have a lower level. You could also get a lower level by importing a lot of wolf from another country and thus get a better genetic composition. To do so, however, is not relevant in Sweden. There is no acceptance or legitimacy for such a measure. I am also very opposed to saying that we have done nothing. We've done a lot of things. In several interpellation debates, including with Marléne Lund Kopparklint, I have explained what the government is doing, things that were not done when the alliance government was last in power. We have introduced an urgent requirement for the protection hunt. We have strengthened legal certainty by ensuring that all appeals go through a county board, the one in Luleå. Just before Christmas, we decided to remove the minimum levels at county level and instead put them in predatory management areas, so that with the licence hunt as a tool we can sparse out in a better way and thus get better management. We have removed the 80% ceiling and instead said that you get 100% when you take preventive measures or should have compensation for damage caused by predators. All this is both important and good. At the same time, Marléne Lund Kopparklint counts on how many wolves we have. Last count said 365, then it has been waltzed and thus we have over 400 today– that was the conclusion that was drawn. I note that the last time we had over 400 wolves was when the Alliance last ruled. I don't remember the year in my head, but it should have been 2011 or 2012. Since then it's been down to under 300, which is why you haven't had a license hunt. At the last count, it was 365. We had license hunting on 27 and protection hunting on another 20. That is the official statistics that exist.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-749	Madam President, I would like I think the Minister should see them as a small compliment that this is an area that we are discussing. I also said earlier that you have taken good action, but this problem remains and that is what we need to address. People in rural areas are still afraid and do not feel safe. Sheep farmers are still closing down because of wolf attacks. It is happening here and now in my county of Värmland and in other counties. That's what we're going to discuss. It is a big issue for people in their everyday lives that it is this way. Madam President, I would like The government has taken several measures in this area during its term of office, just as the Minister has told us, but far from everyone is really creating security. These measures do not help farmers who come out in the morning with their family and see their animals torn apart, bloody, suffering and, not too unusual, dead. It also does not help preschools in Värmland who are afraid to release the children because the wolf is ironing around the corner of the house. A level of favourable conservation status of 170 wolves had been well above the range to preserve the wolf population. I think this debate is extremely important, and we will certainly have more. I must say that I find it extremely sad to see a policy that is blatantly ignoring those who are forced to live with the effects of it, and I would like to say to the Minister for Rural Development what I have said to the Minister for the Environment before, namely that it is quite clear that the government's policy is anti-rural. It is for Södermalmsstockholm and not for Grums in Värmland. I sincerely hope that there will be a change. Thank you to the Minister, officials and listeners!
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-753	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to make it clear that it is extremely important to take people's concerns seriously. That is why we are working intensively to ensure that we have good management of all game in Sweden, including predators. However, the challenge of predators is of course much greater. I think the Moderates are guilty of the answer after this debate. How should I interpret the claims made? It is said here that we would simply decide on another and smaller figure and therefore, I suppose, say: yes, but then it must be inbred, and we do not care to live up to the commitments that we have under the Species and Habitats Directive. That is what results from reasoning as one does, that the only way is to have a smaller number. As an extension, I would like to say that I have always regarded the Moderates as great friends of the European Union and that we have seen great gains in being part of it. Should you interpret what the Moderates say as saying that Sweden can take the liberty of violating a directive that we do not like? Does this mean that other countries can violate directives that they do not like? What exactly is it they say? I think that those who are responsible for the answer to this question are not the government that, given that this is a difficult terrain to deal with, has taken a number of different measures to just increase security and create the conditions for us to have a favourable conservation status for a species for which we should have it. At the same time, we are working with preventive measures, replacement levels, effective measures to ensure that protection hunting works better and with the licensing hunt helping to sparse out. In addition, we continue to work on issues that could lead to a smaller number in the long term. We have the answers. I miss the answers from the Moderates.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-758	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me what I intend to do to increase animal husbandry and food production in the country and what obstacles I see that prevent animal husbandry and food production from increasing in Sweden. The overall objective of the food strategy is a competitive food chain where total food production increases, while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. Production growth, both conventional and organic, should respond to consumer demand. Strengthening and increasing the competitiveness of the Swedish food chain in order to contribute to increased Swedish food production is an important point in the substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. Part of this work is that the Government decided in December 2019 on another food strategy action plan. The action plan includes investments of SEK 122 million annually up to and including 2025. In addition, the Government made additional investments of a total of SEK 114 million in 2020. The budget proposal for 2021 added an additional SEK 74 million for 202 1 to strengthen the work on the food strategy, and for the years 2022 and 2023 the corresponding amount is calculated. The proposed measures together will form an action plan part 3. The action plans together represent important steps in strengthening competitiveness and increasing profitability through investments in, for example, research and innovation, regulatory simplification and skills provision. I would like to emphasise that we are in a positive trend. According to recent figures from the National Board of Agriculture's sector calculation, the total production value for 2020 is estimated to be SEK 64.3 billion. This is an increase of 0.8 billion or just over 1 percent compared to 2019. The value of livestock production is expected to increase by SEK 0.8 billion or 3 percent and is estimated at SEK 28.4 billion. A country's food security is ensured by domestic production as well as imports, and vulnerability can also be reduced in the long term through the implementation of regional food strategies. Today's food supply system is global with many actors in different industries. In many ways, consumers' preferences affect food production in Sweden. In the context of the Food Strategy, increased food exports are a tool for increasing food production. Creating a larger market for Swedish food companies also creates opportunities for Swedish primary production to grow in the long term as well as opportunities for processed products with added value to reach the export market. The positive trend persists. Preliminaryly, the value of food exports has increased by SEK 10 billion over the last three years. The government is therefore strengthening the long-term and strategic efforts to increase Swedish food exports to increase profitability in the Swedish food chain, for example through assignments to Sweden's e xport and investment council, Business Sweden, as well as to the Swedish National Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Food Administration until 2025. The Government is also investing in a continued coordination function for organic food at the National Board of Agriculture, which has the task of promoting the export of organic food. The food strategy's goal of increased and sustainable food production was decided in 2017 and is to be achieved in 2030. In order to achieve the objective of the food strategy, a long-term and continuous work is needed through the food strategy's action plan. With the food strategy, I want to increase Swedish food production while achieving relevant national environmental objectives.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-768	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Jennie Nilsson! It is good that some numbers point up. I think this is positive and suggests that Sweden's food industry is getting better and better, creating competitive advantages and having the opportunity to sell its products. The concern is still at the level of production, down on the farm itself, where we do not have the same positive development in terms of the number of animals and the increase in products. The number of cows decreases, the milk decreases, the number of cattle decreases, the number of sheep decreases and our level of self-sufficiency is low and decreases in some parts. I can mention that in the case of dairy products, for example, we have a self-sufficiency rate of around 70%, according to the Swedish Board of Agriculture's figures from 2019. In the case of lambs, as I mentioned in the previous interpellation debate, we are down to 30.1%, that is, we are far from self-sufficient. In the case of pigs, we are at about 77%. As far as beef is concerned, we are at 56% – 57%. And when it comes to birds, we're at 72 percent. In these pandemic times, when we find it difficult to get vaccines to Sweden, we should therefore be happy that we are not also blocked off. Moreover, if we had been cordoned off and had not been helped with food supplies, we would have been starving in the country. Madam President, I would like It is important to consider the profitability of production at the bottom, of farmers. They are the ones who will make the investments and account for the increase in the number of animals that we need to bring up production. We need a greater willingness to invest and a long-term approach that is considerably longer than four years of government policy. It is good that we have developed the food strategy. The only concern is that no measures are introduced to increase the profitability of the basic production itself, but that a few million are once again being spent on various subsidies and initiatives. At the same time, there is a diesel tax which is well above what Europe otherwise has in terms of agriculture. It eats up most of the subsidies that are dubbed out in some parts of the industry. Madam President, I would like It says in the food strategy that we should have increased production. It hasn't been implemented yet. You haven't succeeded. The work does not seem to have begun either. On the contrary, food production is going the wrong way in Sweden. Parts of production are decreasing. Sweden currently imports a lot of food that we could produce in Sweden with the right conditions. It had created jobs and growth, faith in the future and a vibrant countryside. The Minister talks about targets for the food strategy by 2030. It is now the case that the government's long-term objectives do not tend to infrias – quite the opposite. They often go the wrong way. Who does not remember Prime Minister Lövven's promise that unemployment would be Europe's lowest by 2020, Madam President? Not a letter and not a number in that case was right. Now that we have a 2030 target, it is important that we start immediately to strengthen the profitability of basic production. Then I would like to ask: what taxes does the Minister intend to reduce in the near future in order to increase the profitability of Swedish agriculture?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-778	Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to We are standing here in the midst of a crisis that has caused a lot for us. Things have been put on edge. We have seen that we cannot trust Europe in all areas, when it comes to getting products to Sweden if there is a crisis. The Corona crisis has given a clear picture of the shortcomings in Swedish preparedness and of our degree of self-sufficiency, which is not as good as we would like. It is therefore extremely important that we ensure that our farmers have good conditions and that we give them such support that they feel encouraged to work with what they have done for many years and that they can leave it behind. As we said in the previous debate, there are still problems that we need to address. We've been talking about animal rights activists and predator attacks. In these particular areas, we must strengthen our work. We cannot have sheep farmers leaving and closing down their businesses at a time when we need them most. My question remains, and it is not a question that lies with the Moderates. It is an issue that lies with the government, because you are in charge. What should be done to encourage those who choose to close down their activities because they are afraid of, for example, predator attacks, which we have been dealing with in the past? What is to be said to those living in counties where predators are frequented and there are many attacks? That is the important question. I would like the government to have an answer to that. If they do not feel that they are receiving that support and feel safe when it comes to predatory attacks, we are without those activities. That is a question to which I have still not been given an answer. Year after year, we have been in this House debating the same thing. It's about the wolf, and it's about predator attacks. How are we gonna deal with this? Can we not try to find measures so that people can feel safe, Madam President? It is an extremely important rural issue and an important issue in order to ensure the production of food.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-783	Madam President, I would like It is very important that we have a constructive and good discussion on how to strengthen food production in Sweden throughout the chain. I feel that we have had a good cooperation in the Swedish Parliament in developing a food strategy. It is the first time ever that Sweden has one, and I believe that it was adopted in full agreement by the Riksdag. A strategy is by its nature long-term. That's why the government is working through action plans to replenish it. Sten Bergheden chooses to medal and call the bets made to dunk. Take the numbers with a pinch of salt, because I don't have them in front of me. But the first action plan covered over 1 billion. I think it was 1 024 million. The second action plan involved 824 or 826 million. In addition, one-off investments, of 114 million annually in the previous budget bill, are exchanged up to 74 or 75 million annually from this budget proposal. It calls Sten Bergheden to dunk. I take it that he does not find the measures taken by the government interesting either, from a moderate perspective. I assume that it is for the Moderates you speak and not for you personally. The focus areas of the food strategy have been skills supply, research and innovation, regulatory simplification and exports. Instead, it calls for tax cuts, specifically on fuels. It was the only concrete thing that came out. I can only say: Gud help Swedish food production about the Moderates' answer to how to solve the challenges of getting a growing production is to discuss the diesel price! We are now on a number that is 1.92 or 1.97– it is difficult to have the exact numbers in your head, but you are sure to sit with them at your tables. That is the result of what we are supposed to need to be competitively neutral. We are in a situation where a large part of the rest of the world is changing. In addition, agriculture has uniquely good conditions to be part of producing sustainable alternative fuels. I would argue that if agriculture were more subsidised via the diesel tax alone, it would be counterproductive by not getting new technologies, opportunities for new goods and more bones to stand on for Swedish agriculture. It's a huge proof of poverty. At the same time, there is a bias and also a false picture of the development. We have had a food strategy since 2017, for just under four years. I am not going to say that development depends only on the food strategy. But I absolutely believe it contributes. According to the latest statistics, the total value of production now stands at 64.3 billion. This is an increase of 1 percent since 2020. The value of livestock production is expected to increase by 3%. The production of cereals for 2020 was both high and of good quality and 10 per cent higher than the last five-year average. I will return to the production of milk in the next post.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-790	Madam President, I would like This is interesting given that, as the Minister will know after his visits to farmers, if something is asked of agriculture, it is a tax reduction on diesel. It is absolutely the first that makes the situation much worse so that competitiveness is less competitive than in the rest of Europe. There's the lower ones. The Minister should do something about this. It's a low-hanging fruit. I believe that there is a majority here in Parliament in order to take the immediate decision to strengthen rural areas and agriculture by reducing taxes on diesel. That part should be looked at first before you collect the money and then distribute it in the form of other subsidies and subsidies. Let me remind the Minister of what is beyond this in the case of rural areas. The government is now planning new vehicle taxes that will hit hard on owners of both cars and smaller trucks here in Sweden. This is not something that strengthens competitiveness. You raise the gas taxes. Furthermore, a road toll is planned for trucks. The attempt will therefore be made to make it even more unprofitable to obtain truck supplies, which will hit the countryside, forestry and the rest of the world extremely hard. Agriculture and rural areas depend on lorries. The government is setting up new reserves. This means that the opportunities for jobs and production for people living in rural areas will instead be reserved for the rearing of spruce bark in the area. This, in turn, will create even greater concern for the farmers around it. Madam President, I would like Small-scale hydroelectric power is being torn out, even though it is a source of income for those living in rural areas through which they can produce electricity at a time when we need more electricity. There's a maintenance debt on the roads that's huge. In some places out there, the roads are not navigable. The larger road networks are also getting worse. Then the government, Madam President, is talking about building high-speed trains. Instead, the roads and other things that are needed should be repaired. Madam President, I would like So there are many ways to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture and have a long-term outlook, confidence in the future and willingness to invest that we need now if we are to succeed by 2030. That's why we're trying to get a move on here. Madam President, I would like There is also an enormous regulatory problem. This too is low hanging fruits. It is not reasonable that if I, as a farmer for a year, have to apply for permission from the county administrative board the following year to move the stone pile to another place on the farm. Is it really constructive for the authorities and the government to work like this? Often farmers gather their stones in one place. Then they may use the stones a few years later when they build machine halls or animal stables with stone to fill the ground. How can you have rules that make it so difficult for the countryside and make people criminals when they move a few stones? Villa owners do not have the same rules if they were to build a stone fence. They can tear it down tomorrow day without having to go first to the county administrative board, which the farmer needs when he lays his stones on high. I would just like to point out to the Minister that there are so many different rules that make it difficult to run agriculture in Sweden. They are unnecessary, and after all these years the government should look at them and do something about them. I also once again wonder what taxes will be reduced in order to strengthen competitiveness.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-799	Madam President, I would like In a report from the Swedish Defence Research Institute, it was found, among other things, that it is advisable for Sweden to not expect much support in the form of food from the EU in planning for the management of food supply crises. As if this were not bad enough, the Corona crisis shows that vulnerability and the lack of solidarity between countries exist in several areas other than food. FOI's statement linked to our low level of self-sufficiency shows that Sweden's situation is vulnerable. The obvious thing is that we ourselves must take responsibility for producing more food, which is something that we have repeatedly made proposals about in Parliament but without results. In the current situation, however, not only can new investigations be set up, but it must also become a workshop. This also applies to the food strategy, as the Minister himself said we agree on. It speaks nicely of increased food production. But without concrete measures, we will never get there. This brings me back to the question of origin. When we have major problems and see that companies are closing down because of predatory attacks, it is particularly important to ensure that there are measures in this area too. The Minister still does not have an answer to the question of how to act in order to increase security and encourage these activities to run sheep farms and food businesses with farm animals without having to fear predatory attacks. This is a key issue in the food strategy and in increasing the level of supply.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-803	Madam President, I would like It would have been very positive and valuable if we had had a debate about increased Swedish food production, which was the title of the interpellation, and if it had been about how we want to increase Swedish food production. When you have such a debate, it would have been nice to have updated figures. Once again, I intend to read out the latest statistics on market developments. If we are to discuss developments, we should do so on the basis of concrete facts. In the Swedish Board of Agriculture's forecast for its financial performance in 2020, the total production value is estimated to be SEK 64.3 billion. This is an increase of just over 1 per cent compared to 2019. The value of livestock production is expected to increase. It was the one that Sten Bergheden claimed in one of his previous posts decreased dramatically. It is estimated to increase by 3 percent and lands at SEK 28.4 billion. The production of cereals in 2020 was both high and of good quality. The harvest was just over 10 per cent higher than the last five-year average and amounted to 6 million tonnes. I believe that milk was mentioned as an example in an earlier debate. The production of milk – again linked to animal husbandry – has increased for the first time in several years in the last year. In recent months production has reached levels that have been the highest in five years. According to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, milk production in Sweden increased by 69,000 tonnes between 2019 and 2020. The production of beef and pigmeat has remained stable in 2020 with only a few percentage points of fluctuation compared to previous years. However, beef and pigmeat imports have been declining for some years. In 2020, the decline has increased. When you listen to the interpellants, it's a little hard to figure out what they actually want. I can only conclude that in any sense they do not have much concrete to add to what the government is already doing. We have developed a food strategy. We are actively working to both eliminate rules and create the conditions for managing rules to make it easier to do the right thing and make it more attractive to be a farmer. We are working to increase research and innovation funding. Last Monday, I was able to announce that over 500 million is being allocated to research in the green industries and rural areas and regional development. This is a big increase compared to what it has looked like in the past. Despite the fact that developments are now moving in the right direction, however, I am not satisfied with what it looks like. I am convinced that we need to work together to continue to be long-term and serious in the debate. That is why I am a little disappointed with the opponents of this debate. However, I note that something that is very interesting and would have been interesting to discuss further from what has been said are the lessons we draw from covid. The level of self-sufficiency will never be 100% on all goods. I do not think that any party, especially the Moderates, would like that. We tend to believe jointly in market mechanisms, consumers' free choice and so on in these contexts. But in the situation that has prevailed, there have been a number of vulnerabilities according to the lessons learned. We need to look at the type of stockpiling we need, not least for inputs, machine parts and other things that allow you to keep going or even increase production in a situation where borders are closed.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-814	Madam President, I would like It was no wonder that the Minister selected the parts that have progressed a little over the last one and a half years. I point to the threats that exist, given that the number of cows and other things, including lambs, has decreased in this country. The number of cows has fallen by 50,000 since the government took over. It's probably the same data from the Swedish Agriculture Agency that we work with, so it's probably more about how to read the numbers in that case. Madam President, I would like Our level of self-sufficiency cannot be 100%, says the Minister. But we need to produce more than 100% of what this population eats in order to create exports and be able to sell more and make money in rural areas. Germany has succeeded. They have 120 percent on cheese, 120 percent on pigs, 115 – 120 percent on fresh dairy products, over 100 percent on cereals, over 100 percent on chicken and over 100 percent on beef and veal, while Sweden is 70, 76, 70 and 60. There's a big difference. They have invested in their countryside and farming. I could list the corresponding figures for Finland, which is not quite as high as Germany but significantly above Sweden. That means they could handle a lockdown. They've made sure they have food for their population in case it happens. In fact, we want more with the countryside. We must not only support our people, but also ensure that we can create added value and create jobs in rural areas. It is good if we can sell Swedish meat, which is one of the best produced in the world, and make sure that more people eat it in the world. I have still not received an answer from the Minister to my question. I have been told that some aid and subsidies have been distributed, but what rules and, above all, what taxes will be reviewed to increase the profitability of primary production?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-819	Madam President, I would like The specific question asked in relation to taxes concerned the diesel tax. The interpellant claimed that there was a majority of parliament on which it had not been delivered. It's wrong. It's wrong. It's wrong. The tax rate on which we agree is intended to create competition neutrality in this area. At the same time it becomes very obvious that Sten Bergheden – and the Moderates, I guess, are very empty-handed. You get back to the question that it is tax adjustments that are the thing, but you can't even specify exactly what they should be. It then calls everything that is being done, the billion-dollar investments that are being made in this sector to develop the products of the future, for subsidies and nonsense. I wonder whether a farmer in primary production who was asked would be prepared to exchange the major measures being taken in research and innovation, in general simplification, in the supply of skills, in export measures and so on for a few cents on the tax, which is the adjustment requested from Parliament, also specifically on diesel tax. Actually, I don't think so. You can get support in different ways by looking at different figures. It is, of course, quite obvious. I really understand why Sten Bergheden did that reflection, given that he himself just listed the goods where a particular country had high while Sweden had low. We have more than 100% on a number of different things, on cereals if nothing else. We're high on potatoes, we're at 100% on eggs and so on. You can find that and compare it. The important thing is that we need to jointly ensure that we increase the degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden and have effective measures to do so. We are not doing this with a lot of nonsense, as Sten Bergheden has been doing in this interpellation debate.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-823	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me how I intend to work so that the government establishes a game agency, which the Riksdag decided almost six years ago, and what measures I intend to take to speed up the process. Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me h from I intend to work so that the parliamentary decision to establish a game agency is followed and so that it is not drawn out more and how I intend to work so that those who engage in hunting and game conservation issues get back confidence that decisions made by the Riksdag are followed. The hunting investigation submitted an interim report to the Swedish Wildlife Agency – hunting and game management in a new time(SOU 2013:71). The report has been referred, and my assessment is that certain issues in the report have been raised and that the investigation does not analyse sufficiently in depth. For example, the report's and the report's proposals on funding are not satisfactory. The creation of new authorities is resource-intensive and there must be clear added value. Various options need to be carefully considered and investigated. The Government is acting to build up long-term trustful collaborations with stakeholders in order to improve the conditions for effective and sustainable game management. Wildlife management is constantly evolving. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's strategy for Swedish wildlife management has been welcomed, and the government monitors how this work works. It is the government's hope that the mission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to promote game conservation with funds from the Viltvårdsfonden will have a positive effect on the country's wildlife management. Through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to participate more actively in game conservation, cooperation between the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and relevant stakeholders should be strengthened. A well-designed administrative structure is a prerequisite for efficient and sustainable game management.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-828	Madam President, I would like I thank Jennie Nilsson for her reply. In March 2015, a decision was made here in the Riksdag to investigate and try to establish a game agency. It's been six years now. For six years, Madam President, the Socialist Government has defied and ignored the decision taken here in Parliament. This is not just serious, Madam President. It's very serious. The fact that the Swedish Social Democratic Government does not follow the democratic decision taken by the Riksdag is remarkable and totally unacceptable. In other contexts, the government has stressed the importance of other countries actually following democratic decisions. Then the S-led Swedish Government should also follow the decisions of the Swedish Democratic Assembly. Or does the Minister and Government really think that you can ignore Parliament's decision of March 2015? Now it is not enough, but because the government ignored the decision in 2015, the Riksdag took another decision on the same issue on 11 May 2016, according to which this would be investigated and clear in 2016. This decision, too, ignored the S-government. Democratic decisions are ignored. To follow such should be obvious to the Swedish Government. The government's actions are both remarkable and utterly deplorable. Since then, the Riksdag has taken a democratic decision to transfer licence management to the new game authority when it is in place. My questions to the Government are: Where is the investigation into the establishment of the Wildlife Authority? Where is the cost estimate for funding, to which government representatives often refer in the discussion? When will the government follow Parliament's decision and establish the new Wildlife Agency? In every debate and in every question, the government has argued that it is investigating the issue of the game authority in the department, which obviously has not happened. There is also no response in the reply that comes from the Minister about when it is planned to set this up. It seems to me that Parliament's decisions are to be ignored, and that is serious. Setting up a new wildlife agency seems very difficult for the government. But – Madam President and listeners – it has not been at all as difficult to set up nine completely new other authorities in Sweden. It has gone well without discussions about funding and so on. It is clear that the government is working in every way to delay and delay the decision on the game agency. Then it tries to find new ways to avoid establishing the Wildlife Authority. Instead, the task of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now being strengthened. That is not what the Riksdag decided. It is serious that the government has established nine new agencies since 2015 but refuses to follow the Riksdag's decision to establish the game agency. Madam President, I would like Where is the investigation into the creation of the Wildlife Agency? You've had six years. What is the cost estimate? When will the government follow Parliament's decision and establish the new Wildlife Agency? I believe that Parliament has the right to receive an answer from both the Minister and the Government on this issue. It cannot be reasonable to ignore a decision for six years. In addition, a further decision has been made in the Committee on Justice and also here in Parliament that it wants to transfer licence management from the police to the new game authority. On this issue too, nothing has happened, given that the Wildlife Agency is not in place. Madam President, I would like When's the Wildlife Authority coming?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-840	Madam President, I would like Six years have passed since the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture took a committee initiative to set up a wildlife agency. The government clearly shows that it ignores Parliament's request. I may find that very strange in view of the huge number of voters who have an interest in this issue. Then I am talking about over 600 000 gun owners in Sweden who hunt and practice sports shooting in different branches. It's very strange. Madam President, I would like Hunting and shooting are deeply rooted in Swedish society and are part of the popular movements. For many people, hunting is a lifestyle and can determine the choice of place of residence, and hunters must be able to care for the country's wildlife. Even the pure sportsman engages many and has a traditional connection to the police, to the defense and the sports movement. This should be highly valued and not downgraded by restrictions or by non-compliance with the decisions taken in the Riksdag. It has clearly expressed a desire for a game agency to be set up. It is important that conditions for hunting and shooting in Sweden are designed according to the need. This is particularly true in order to encourage practice. It is extremely important for Sweden that there are different perspectives. For questions about when the game agency will get started, the answer is often that it is still being prepared. This is almost laughable. How long can you prepare a question? Either officials sit down and have coffee all day, which I don't think, or it's a fact that the government is resisting Parliament's announcement, despite the fact that this is an extremely important issue for Swedish hunting and game conservation. Madam President, I would like I think it is disrespectful to the voters. Everyone knows that we elected representatives are a link between voters and important issues that they want us to address in the Riksdag. It is precisely one of those issues where thousands of voters have put forward what they want and which we have managed well by means of an announcement. It is therefore absolutely incredible that the government is delaying the work by preparing the question or whatever it is doing. It is now important for the government to stop doing so and to establish the administrative authority on which the Riksdag has made an announcement. It is important from a number of aspects and not least from a security perspective. Madam President, I would like In the police's own strategy for 2024 under overall objectives and operational idea, it is clear that the police should devote themselves to renouncing law enforcement work. A target has been set for law enforcement and clearance. I think it is reasonable and a good goal. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, help to make sensible decisions that make it easier for the police to achieve their goal. It is really not reasonable when Sweden is on fire and you have shootings every and every other day that the police should have to spend resources on measuring gravel on shooting tracks at our legal hunters and sportsmen. Madam President, I would like What exactly has the Minister done to set up the Wildlife Authority? More importantly, what does the Minister intend to do to ensure that a wildlife agency is in place in accordance with what the Riksdag has decided on? When will it all be ready?
i-M4qadfVbkpBsCRqfdDnEPN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sten Bergheden and Marléne Lund Kopparklint, for this question! For me and the government, it is terribly important that we have an orderly wildlife administration in the country. It is, of course, based on a variety of elements. There are a number of things that have to work. In particular, the issue of trust and legitimacy are important issues, as the interpellants also say. When it comes to specifically setting up an authority, it is expensive and demanding. It is necessary to demonstrate that there is clear added value in order to proceed with such decisions. At the same time, I can see that there is an investigation at the bottom that highlights, above all, a number of issues, challenges and problems that those who are stakeholders in this area see. I think that should be taken very seriously. The hunting investigation concluded, among other things, that the criticism of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency could be divided and summarised into three points. It is very important to look at how to address these questions. It is also very important, of course, to follow announcements made by the Swedish Parliament. In this context, however, one should remember something. I think it was Marléne Lund Kopparklint who asked: How long can an announcement be? The specific answer is: in any case, at least 21 years. The oldest announcement available is 21 years. It has thus passed through a number of different governments. It is often based on the fact that the issue is complex or difficult and that the Riksdag sometimes makes announcements that cannot be delivered, or that it becomes out of date over time or other things. There may be a variety of explanations. With regard to the announcement of the game conservation authority, I can see that that announcement is very explicit. It says that a game conservation agency should be set up, and it should be funded through the game conservation team. That is the money the hunters themselves pay through the hunting cards to hunt. They currently pay the state primarily to the Swedish Hunter Association but also some research to SVA in order to be able to take samples and ensure that you know that infectious animal diseases do not spread and so on. In this context, I should like to say that I have great doubts about the lack of funding. In addition, the funding is explicitly expressed in this context, or at least in a premature manner. This would contribute to evading the Swedish Hunter Association's funding. It's at 43 million kronor at the moment. Alternatively, the fees for hunters would be significantly increased by shock. I think these are two bad options. Therefore, I have chosen to currently work on dealing with what has been the criticism in substance.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-861	Madam President, I would like I'm trying to move forward as objectively as possible. The government has not returned to Parliament for six years and has said that it wants to resolve this in this way, with this financing solution. In the proposal on the Wildlife Agency, it is about transferring resources from the Environmental Protection Agency, which is currently working on certain parts of this and then perhaps moving other activities from the police, weapons classification and other things, to this game management. In this way you can get an authority that specializes in hunting, game management, wolf, weapons, and more. The proposal and support for it has been developed, and we have a large and broad majority with four five parties here in Parliament who expect the Wildlife Agency to be set up and take over some of the activities of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. That is why, Madam President, it is quite provocative to see how the government, while moving away from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, is giving the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency more assignments in this new one. The government takes the hunters' money, adds it to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and says that the work will distribute the money to various organisations involved in wildlife conservation and other activities. It will be quite provocative for a majority who actually had a completely different focus: that this activity should be moved away from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. I am a little surprised, Madam President, when the Minister raises the question of the fee, the Wildlife Fund and the funding in his reply. After all, the government made a decision on 7 January, which closed the General Union of Hunters. It is a mission that all party leaders, except perhaps the moving Green Party, supported in the run-up to the elections. I can quote what Swedish Hunt writes that Stefan Löfven answered the question: We have no plans to change the system. ..................................................... But then it turned out – it knows those who have read Swedish Hunting lately – when they asked the people who work at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that this work has been going on for a while. In fact, it has been planned to transfer the business. Then the straight question is: is this a way for the government to try to resolve the issue of the game agency? It has nothing to do with these questions. The Swedish Wildlife Agency is there for us to move some of the operations from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and make this a specialised game agency. We can do that in government immediately after the next elections. But the mission lies with this government to deliver a game agency, and I see nothing in the reply from the Minister that she intends to come back with proposals to set up a game agency. That is why my question is again: when will the Wildlife Authority arrive? When do we get this at Parliament's table according to the assignment? I am a little surprised to hear that this is expensive and that there is no funding. This government, Madam President, has thus established nine other authorities since 2015. But this particular game agency is so hopelessly difficult. It cannot be financed and arranged in any way. If there was time, I would list all the other authorities that the government has created in its time, but the game authority has been ignored. That is unacceptable, Madam President.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-871	Madam President, I would like Expensive and demanding, they say. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs a question: Isn't gang crime expensive? I will come back to why I am asking that question. There are many positive aspects to ensuring that the Wildlife Agency is established. It is partly about releasing resources from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and partly about releasing resources from the police so that they can focus on law enforcement and on renouncing their activities according to what they have expressed so well. It is about achieving stability and credibility through competence and interest in the issues of hunting, weapons licences and game conservation. I'd like to stay a little on the police mission. It is to be refined, and the conditions for Hunting Sweden and Shooting Sweden are to be designed as necessary. These are important issues, not least in order to encourage the practice of hunting and shooting. Then why do I mention this? Well, I mention it because today it takes an enormous amount of time to obtain licences for various hunting or sporting weapons. The police don't have time for what they're supposed to do. Being out on shooting ranges and measuring gravel to make sure they're the right size – that's not the right thing for the police to do, is it? No, I think we need to transfer responsibility for the supervision of, for example, shooting ranges to a game agency. We need to move the responsibility for arms cases – of course, apart from the part relating to arms crimes, Madam President, that is, the criminal law part. We may also need to move everything related to hunting and game management from the police, and possibly also from the county administrative boards, to the Wildlife Agency. It is not reasonable for the police to have to give priority to things like this rather than for a game agency to do so. Until this happens, some of these tasks can be placed on municipalities or county boards to enable the police to focus even more on law enforcement issues. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that the police must be given more resources to fight crime. That is why it is so important that the Wildlife Agency should come into existence and that the tasks should be transferred from the police to it. We must all help to make it easier for the police by making sensible political decisions from both the government and the parliament and by not pursuing issues that take time from work to overcome the serious situation that Sweden is in. I am absolutely convinced that it would make a difference if the police had to put away work like fit animals, make fences for mines, measure shooting walls and distance to trees, make sure that too drunk people don't vomit or hurt themselves– I can make the list long. So, please, let us agree to help the police streamline their mission to law enforcement in the name of security! Madam President, I would like What exactly has the Minister done to set up the Wildlife Authority? More importantly, what does the Minister intend to do to ensure that it is in place in accordance with the decision taken by the Riksdag?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-881	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the issue of establishing a game conservation agency is still being addressed. I also note that there is currently no funding. I can also note that it is nevertheless important to work with confidence-building measures in this area and that extensive work is done by those responsible for the issues of shifting positions and developing their working methods in this area. Today it is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that is responsible for game issues. That is where the criticisms that have been made have been taken on board. For example, all its activities have been coordinated under one unit. A strategy has been developed for how to work with game management and the importance of the industry linked to it. Dialogue and dialogue forums have been developed with relevant stakeholders. I basically think this is a good thing. I believe that, regardless of whether a game authority is established or not, it is inevitable that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the other perspectives of that authority will be contrasted with or in contexts related to hunting and game issues. Then we need to ensure that the authorities take responsibility for developing these kinds of issues and not seeking conflict. There are a great many issues raised in this debate. Unfortunately, I get to choose who I comment, because time does not allow me to comment on everyone. The general mission has not been abolished. What was claimed in previous speeches was a pure error. What the government has done is relate to criticism that has been related to the procurement, i.e. the LOU. We have had a pilot from the European Union, but above all their own, non-political legal officials from all the departments involved in this matter have said that they share the view that in some parts this is contrary to the LOU. Initially, the pilot and the questions that were being asked about closing the whole general mission and having it procured were dealt with. We have now found a solution, thanks to good dialogue with the Swedish Hunter Association. We have identified the issues that are sensitive to procurement law and raised them and valued them at SEK 18 million. We have also dealt with the fact that the fund has long been underfunded by increasing the fee. Hunting fees have been at SEK 100 for 20 years. With the money and space created there, we have refined the general mission and the unique role of the Swedish Hunter Association. The Association will receive a purely organisational grant to work to protect and develop the general mission. It will be multiannual – this has been another point of criticism in this context. So what you do is ensure and develop the general mission. There's a big difference between putting it down. The parts to be procured are linked to the definition of the Hunting Act, and we say that one should have a nationwide activity and that one must also have existed for at least five years. This means that, for example, the Swedish Hunter Association has good opportunities to get this assignment through procurement. It's about organization. It's about developing. I think that this is important and that it can be good, because we have done it in dialogue.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-890	Madam President, I would like I note that there is a clear majority in Parliament in order for the general mission to remain with the hunters' association. Despite this, and despite promises made before the elections, the government has changed this on 7 January this year. When it comes to the game authority, there is a parliamentary decision, and then feedback should be given to the Riksdag. It is here in this House that we make democratic decisions if we are to adjust or change anything. It is not with the government, in a government decision or at a coffee table in Rosenbad that this should happen, but it is actually in this House that we should return when there has been an announcement. Parliament's announcements and decisions are not loose recommendations to the government, but majority decisions are taken by Sweden's highest decision-making democratic assembly, and they must be followed. Anything else is unacceptable. The decisions have not been followed here. It has now been six years without our feedback. I am told by the Minister that there is no funding. Then I'm a little upset. There have been funding for nine new authorities in the country, but they have not been able to finance the game agency that has been ordered by the Swedish parliament. This is remarkable, and it is probably a matter of priorities in the government's budget and not of financing problems. It is therefore a matter of priority that the government has, nothing more. I also take the Jennie that the Wildlife Agency is still being prepared, which means that we can expect this matter to come back to the House so that we can take a decision on setting up the new authority. Thank you for the debate.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-895	Madam President, I would like Money is missing, says the Minister for Rural Affairs. But I'm not actually buying that explanation. One has had money to create nine other authorities, and what can be more important than prioritising the police in a situation where Sweden is on fire? There are shootings every two nights. We need to free resources from the police. It is hours, days and weeks that the police spend measuring gravel grains, building fences and taking care of dogs. I listed all this. It has to change. I think the Minister for Rural Development will agree with this. That's why a wildlife agency is so incredibly important. Madam President, I would like I think this game agency story is getting a little weird. It is not reasonable for the government to do a preparation for so many years. It is clear that priority can be given to this if you wish. It actually feels like it was about something else. What is this delay really about? Is there any other reason why the Wildlife Authority is not in place? Has the Minister made a settlement about something else that Parliament is not aware of? In that case, we should find out, so that we do not have to stand here year after year and ask the Minister about when the Wildlife Authority will come about. This is an extremely important issue. There must not be as long a debate on this as on the question of wolves, which we have debated in this House year after year. It is clear that when you have done so with everything else, you can prioritise money for a game agency, especially when you know that the police need to free up resources to deal with gang crime.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-899	Madam President, I would like I'll try to be brief:
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-900	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me: Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me: I choose to answer the questions together. D Jural protection is a very important issue for me and the government. The fact that the jur is to be treated well and protected against unnecessary suffering is a matter of course and is laid down in the animal welfare legislation we have. This applies to all animals that we have in our care and at all times during the animal's life. The fact that animals are harmed is never acceptable. However, we must bear in mind that the answer for the animals lies with the owner or the person who otherwise actually holds and disposes of the animal. It is the animal holder's responsibility to ensure that the animals he has taken in his care are managed in a good way. D a person who bought an animal must treat, keep and care for the animal in accordance with the animal welfare legislation we have. From that there are no exceptions, and that also applies during a legal process. Since April 2019 we have a new Animal Welfare Act in Sweden. The law is a completely new, up-to-date and modernised animal welfare law which, in my opinion, fulfils its objective of ensuring good animal welfare and promoting good animal welfare and respect for animals. There are currently no plans to amend the law. With regard to the issue of specific rules on the purchase of live animals, the government intends to come back to the preparation of the report A new law on consumer protection in the case of purchases and certain other agreements (SOU 2020:51) has been completed.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-907	Madam President, I would like It is well known that the Consumer Sales Law is a procedural law, and animals have to pay the highest price. I would like to begin by thanking you for the commitment that exists in Sweden on this issue. My email basket is full of stories that people share. Lawyers, lawyers, organizations and horsemen talk about their experiences. There is a frustration in Sweden that Sweden has pushed the issue in the EU and that now that everyone was hoping that animals would be saved from the Consumer Sales Law, there seems to be a reversal at national level. The referral from the Veterinary Association is very clear: We believe that the sale of live animals should be completely removed from the Consumer Sales Law. It is unreasonable to apply to trade in animals when, for natural reasons, living beings cannot be declared Animals are, in contrast to things that are in constant change (as opposed to a factory-made product), and most animals are very effective for the handling they are subjected to, on the one hand, and on the other hand a living animal requires daily care and, on the other hand, they are sentient beings and are at risk of suffering, for example, in lengthy litigation. ..................................................... In another paragraph they write: We would like to underline the concern that the horse suffers damage during the period of dispute.... In addition, they have bolded their concerns. This is reinforced by conversations with horse lawyers and lawyers who say that horses do not receive reasonable care during legal proceedings. A horse lawyer I talked to today says that it is rare for buyers to take good care of the horse during the trial. The lawyer told me how sellers cry when they describe the horse being returned. The law states that horses should be returned in substantially unchanged condition has no real meaning. Veterinarians testify to the practice that horses are not being treated for disease and injury during the legal process. Judicial proceedings often last for over a year, up to a year and a half. Injuries that could have been treated become chronic. In combination with full-value insurance, many horses in Sweden are killed that are actually healthy. They are now facing an early death. In my next speech I will tell you about the Gustaphsson family from Västerås. Their horse was at SLU in Uppsala with a strong lameness that remained untreated. Who looks after the horse's best when the buyer doesn't? Animal welfare doesn't work for the horses. They get caught up in the legal uncertainty of the process created by the Consumer Sales Law. The Government believes that animal welfare works and has also strengthened it in 2019. I've been calling around and talking to several people at the county administrative board. No one – no one – knows of any case where animal welfare has gone in and helped animals during the legal process. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister if she really thinks that the horses are receiving the care and care they need while legal proceedings are going on.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-922	Madam President and the Minister. No, animal welfare actually doesn't work. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer she has given. I'll tell you, I wasn't a horse girl when I was younger. I haven't had the interest as an adult either – however, I like horses. However, several of my acquaintances have horses, and I have seen at close range how much time and energy it takes to be a horse owner and to run companies in the field. I have also understood how important it is to manage your horses properly and what consequences it can have if you do not. Through many conversations with a veterinarian and through visits to his job I have gained insight into this and a knowledge that I am very grateful for. I have learned, among other things, that many injuries that horses get are caused by mismanagement and lack of knowledge by the person responsible for the horse. No, Madam Speaker, I'm not a horse girl. However, I have a genuine interest in animals living a good life during their lifetime. I really hate it when animal owners mishandle their animals so that they suffer. I have an interest in learning about the shortcomings that exist and in getting tips on how to change laws and rules so that things get better for the animals. Madam President, I would like In the case of a sale of a horse, the seller has extra responsibility during the first six months to prove that the horse had no faults at the time of purchase. The question is how many horses have perfectly perfect X-ray plates and what relevance any X-ray findings have to the use of the animal. Today, sellers testify that buyers are free from responsibility to give the horse the care he needs. The buyer simply mishandles the horse, usually due to ignorance and lack of experience. Today not all new horse owners understand what work it means to own a horse. Stalla the horse into a room of its own and not together with other horse owners who have adequate knowledge and experience, the risks are greater. I'd like to paint a picture of how bad things can get. Take an example with a buyer of a horse who wants to cancel the purchase because the buyer is unhappy. It goes so far as to become a legal process because the seller does not believe that there was anything wrong with the horse when it was sold. Pending a legal process, the buyer releases the horse into the pasture because the buyer does not want or is able to take responsibility for it. This could, for example, be a lack of court care. When the horse is brought in, it has long hooves, skin problems such as rasp and mug and other untreated ailments. In addition, the horse has become thin because it has lost body and muscles. Usually these horses are fully valued, and veterinarians and lawyers testify that it is a deadly combination. The disgruntled buyer prefers to put the horse down rather than rehabilitate it. Thus, a horse that in the right hands could be perfectly healthy is heading toward its death. That concludes the legal process. That it can happen like this is terrible. There is no animal perspective at all. The horse is not worth much more than a toaster, and that view is reinforced when you read the Consumer Sales Law, where the sale of animals is regulated. Animals are considered things. Madam President, I would like I would like to know whether the Minister thinks this is reasonable.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-932	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren and Marléne Lund Kopparklint, for the questions! Marléne Lund Kopparklint began by saying that she was not a horse girl when she was young. I can then begin by saying that I am an old horse girl, which means that horses are of course very close to my heart. However, I can see that there is something that, to me, is superior to everything else important, whether we are talking about horses or whether we are talking about other animals. It is that every animal throughout its life span, no matter where it is, should have good animal welfare. We have therefore modernised and updated the Animal Welfare Act, which was perhaps already one of the world's strongest animal welfare legislations, as late as 2019. I do not rule out at all the need to do more when it comes to sanctions and controls in order to ensure full compliance with them. I would also like to say that the vast majority of people treat their animals well, whether we are talking about horses or something else. You have an animal because you care about it, and you treat it well. In any case, where this does not happen, it is appalling; there is no doubt whatsoever about it. With regard to this specific issue linked to consumer law, I would first like to say that consumer law is not on my table. It is not my portfolio, but another minister dealing with this issue. On the other hand, Sweden, mentioned in one of the amendments, has been the driving force behind the implementation of the directive in Sweden in order to enable Member States to take their own decisions in this area. We achieved success in that, and that is now possible. An investigation has then been carried out into this linked to Sweden, and the investigator has made a proposal that does not essentially mean that animals should be excluded from consumer law altogether. Instead, it is proposed that two quite important exceptions can be made. One is that for more expensive animals, e.g. horses, a duty of investigation is proposed for the buyer. The second is that buyers and sellers should be able to cancel the reverse burden of proof. These are proposals which, in substance, could deal with quite a lot of these problems – of course – but they do not mean excluding horses. The issue is currently being addressed. In fact, I don't have the timetable ahead of me – it's probably somewhere in all my papers at what time it's expected to be sent to Parliament, but I can't find it now. However, there is a deadline because this is a directive to be implemented, so it is an issue that is on the way and is currently being prepared. So what I am presenting now is the proposal of the investigation. It was said here that consumer protection legislation is for goods, and that is not really my picture. It is there to protect consumers. We are now hearing terrible stories about things that I am signing up to must not happen, where animal welfare legislation should kick in and where animals should be taken care of. In terrible cases, perhaps the condition of having animals could be withdrawn. But the point here is that there is also the reverse: there are buyers who are fooled by sellers, and consumer protection legislation is there to protect the buyer.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-940	Madam President, I would like I'd like to mention a few things quickly. The county administrative boards testify that the strengthening of animal welfare was an update of the language and so on. They cannot really see that it was a strengthening of the protection of the horses in a legal process, and they do not see that this has been used for that purpose or will be able to be used in the current form, even though it is reinforced – or updated – in 2019. The Government is talking about the Consumer Sales Law. It is intended to strengthen the buyer's position in relation to the seller, and in particular the goods in question. It is appropriate that the buyer's role is strengthened in relation to a multinational company when buying, for example, a refrigerator, but in the trade in horses this goes crazy. It does not have the relationship between buyer and seller that it is clear that the buyer would be a weaker party than the seller. This is not how it works in the horse trade, but often the seller is a small stud shop that may sell three horses in five years or so. I have prepared my second post, where I want to tell you about the Gustaphsson family in Västerås. They sold a horse in late summer 2020. All was peace and joy for a month – the horse was competed in jumping, the results were good and in their joint chat group the rider shared the joy of the horse. Then it came down like lightning from the clear sky: The horse is stupid and will be returned due to lynx faults. The horse climbs with its rider. What this means is that the rider has become afraid and no longer wants the horse. At this point, the seller does not see reasons for cancellation, but the seller has no right to meet the horse to form his own opinion. It runs around to vets, and peeing spins are found. The veterinarian informs that this needs to be further investigated and that nothing has been established. The buyer still sees that there are now reasons for cancellation – bingo! The point is that the horse has contracted lameness, which remains untreated in the buyer. Not until the horse returns to the seller is the heel treated, which takes place two days before Christmas Eve. The horse is now in severe pain; the heel is estimated to be 2.5 degrees. If we'd been in so much pain, we'd have gone to bed, but the horse can't get away. Rather, it has fear of touch and throws itself away from touch. The horse has also been at SLU in Uppsala for the heel, which is now very clear to everyone – even for an untrained eye. Where is animal welfare when veterinarians testify that it is common for veterinarians not to treat a horse during ongoing dispute? There's no difference for vets working under the Board of Agriculture. The seller announces that the horse is now well and jumps again. History is typical, because it never went to the district court. The Consumer Sales Law has a reputation for being legally insecure, and if there are peeing spins – nearby tower committees – the forecast looks bleak to the seller, although 70 percent of all horses have proven to have peeing spins. Essentially, a legal process that lasts for more than a year increases the risk that the horse is not alive or unable to rehabilitate. One and a half years of poor care can kill the healthiest horse, and in combination with full-value insurance many horses in Sweden are killed unnecessarily. Madam President, I would like Is that how the Government thinks the Consumer Sales Law should work, i.e. that the threat of poor management by the buyer becomes an absolute means of pressure?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-948	Madam President, I would like The Minister said that these issues are not on her table, but animal welfare legislation does. That is why this will be on the Minister's table, because we are talking about animal welfare. In view of the fact that, as I said, horses can be treated in principle as a broken toaster that is just thrown into the dump, I would like to ask the Minister how she wants to work to increase the status of animals in general. Should not the sale of animals be regulated primarily by the Animal Welfare Act? Or should it not kick in, as the minister himself said? Now the hour has come to do the right thing. Several years ago, the EU opened up the possibility of saving animals from the Consumer Sales Law, which is designed to protect the consumer and strengthen the consumer's position vis-à-vis the trader. It works perfectly well when buying, for example, that toaster that I return to: the product comes with a declaration of contents and care instructions, and it is a responsibility of the consumer not to drop the product in the floor or otherwise be careless. If there are manufacturing errors, this can be remedied by repair or new product. Knowledge and responsibility must be greater with the seller than with the buyer, which means that the Consumer Sales Law is needed to secure the buyer's position. However, this judgment is distorted when talking about live animals, which the Consumer Sales Law also covers. In the case of trade in live animals, it is not assumed that the seller has greater knowledge than the buyer. No salesman can promise the durability or performance of a living animal, and much more depends on the operation because we are talking about a living animal, unlike a kitchen product. A living animal consists of both physical and mental matter that is directly affected by care, handling and the environment. An animal can also develop disease, just as we humans do. The Consumer Sales Law is not adapted for trade in live animals. It is a blunt instrument when looking at animal welfare and from an animal welfare perspective, which should nevertheless be the most important thing here. Madam President, I would like It is a fact that animals are currently suffering as a result of the fact that in the Consumer Sales Law they are not valued higher than a white product. Horses suffer in prolonged legal proceedings because of the Consumer Sales Law. We must try to act to prevent more animals from getting hurt. This is a very important issue. Horses and animals are not things but living beings that often become man's best friend. They deserve to be protected and valued. When it comes to a horse buyer who has not handled the horse properly so that there has been damage that is then blamed on the seller, and you want to advertise the horse, the seller basically has no say. It'll be a word-to-word situation. On the way, the horse pays a hard price with its well-being and in many cases, unfortunately, with its life. Another absurdity is that the seller has no opportunity to hit the animal or control the animal by proxy as long as the animal is at the buyer's disposal. Reasonably, the seller has the right to meet the animal in person or through a representative, such as a veterinarian. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I believe that we need to change this immediately.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-955	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the issue is concerned. It is self-evident to me that the issue is concerned. When we talk about animals and the suffering of animals, it should be done with a large measure of seriosity. In this context, I would like to state once again that it is never accepted and never allowed by law not to take care of an animal, nor during a legal process. It's undisputed like that. I absolutely buy the arguments that it is difficult to compare live animals with a broken toaster, a white product or whatever they may be. In this context, I can only note that the investigator's proposal – which I understand the Moderates reject entirely and which is in preparation – also relates to the fact that animals are not like any other animal by looking at two important exceptions in this context. It is proposed that for the purchase of more expensive animals there should be a duty to investigate at the time of sale. The buyer must, at the time of purchase – as I have understood your stories when I have read into the matter before the debate, consumer law is not in my portfolio – have a veterinarian do a check to be able to refer to old errors during the limitation period of six months. It also enables buyers and sellers at the time of purchase to remove the reversal of the burden of proof in six months. This means that the seller's opportunities for fair handling are strengthened, and this is important in this context. At the same time, I have to say that consumer purchasing legislation, unlike animal welfare legislation, is not intended to protect either the animal or the seller. That legislation is there to protect the consumer, that is, the shopper. You can't ignore that. No matter how terrible you think of examples where the buyer behaves reprehensibly from an animal perspective, it is not possible to ignore the fact that the reverse can happen, i.e. that protection is also needed for those who buy a horse – an expensive investment. There is also a need for working mechanisms in this direction. Whatever the buyer or seller, animal welfare legislation also applies during a legal process. Both interpellants refer to discussions with county boards and veterinarians, and there are many examples. I have great respect for the fact that an example is a bad example. There is no need for more than one example. However, in order for it to be a little bit proportionate, we can see that the statistics are poor in this area. There are, above all, no recent statistics here. My question is how big the problem really is. I will return to the question of the latest statistics in the next speech.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-959	Madam President, I would like The law is designed to protect the consumer and goods of dead things. Animals are actually more of a second-hand item, and they do not fit into the Consumer Sales Law. Even if the investigator puts forward proposals that lug things in the right direction, it will never be good to have animals in the Consumer Sales Law. I am therefore clear about saying that animals should be saved from the Consumer Sales Law. Does the Minister understand that buyers who want to cancel a purchase do not give the horse the care and care the horse needs? They don't want the horse. Veterinarians testify that injuries are untreated. The horse is released into the pasture and is not taken in until when the horse is transported back to the seller. The horse that comes back to the seller is not in substantially the same condition as the legislation states it should be. That horse has long hooves, mugs, rasp, rain bowls, is lean and more stressed than ever. The horse that was sold performed on the racetrack, and back comes something really sad. In fact, the reason for the cancellation of the purchase may be that the buyer did not foresee all the job it means to have a horse, that it was more horse than the buyer can handle and the buyer becomes afraid of the horse or that the horse does not like his new rider and does not perform on the race track as it was intended. Current law has become like a week of regret, but for three years, and that's not how the law was supposed to be used. I now come to the main issue, Madam President. Will the Government work for animals to be excluded from the Consumer Sales Law? I would like to thank everyone around Sweden who has shared their experiences. The fact that so many people have heard from and signed the call on Facebook is a clear sign that something needs to be changed.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-965	Madam President, I would like The Minister says that it is never acceptable to treat animals badly. Although this happens continuously when you look at the examples in the Consumer Sales Law. We get examples from veterinarians, lawyers, sellers and county administrative boards, as my colleague has listed. Many examples from reality show how unreasonable the law is and what suffering it creates for animals. The question is in fact in the Minister's portfolio because it concerns animal welfare issues. Here, the Minister should review this matter urgently. We should not have to hear examples of how horses get hurt when sold or during legal proceedings. They're being put down, and insurance covers up. The price the horse pays is with life. No matter how Swedish law is to be designed, animals must be protected and not subjected to unnecessary suffering. Now is the time to take a stand for the animals. The legislation is not for the benefit of animals in terms of their sales liability, which is regulated in the Consumer Sales Law. Animal rights and welfare must weigh more heavily than being equated with white goods, as I have said before. Too many animals have suffered as a result of legislation, and there is no animal law perspective. The Minister has these issues in his portfolio, and I sincerely hope that these issues will be reviewed as soon as possible. I also thank you for a good debate, and I thank the President, the audience and the officials.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-970	Madam President, I would like I can say that I and the interpellants agree that we should have good animal welfare in Sweden for all animals, and I think we can fully agree that animal welfare should be good even during legal proceedings. So is the law. I do not rule out the need to review, for example, the system of sanctions. Here is an investigation that is on my table, which is my responsibility and that comes to Parliament sometime during this year – just before or shortly after the summer. It is about sanctions, that is, what the penalties are in this area and how we develop them. I believe that it can contribute to better compliance and more intervention and to a different status for the issue. It is an important complement to ensure that animals are well, regardless of the system. One of the interpellants said something had to change. My answer to that, linked to this specific question, is that something is going to change. I cannot say today exactly what that proposal will look like, because it is in preparation. But whether you go on the investigator's proposal or make adjustments to it, something will change. One will strengthen the burden of proof – one should have at least what is in the investigation, I assume, and one should look at control when buying and be able to have other contractual relations. That's good. I really took it to heart when I read about this that there are bad statistics on how big the problem is. The only thing I could find that was really relevant was that 193 consumer purchases were decided in court between 2002 and 2009. This is not a huge number, and it may be one of the reasons why the issue has not received much attention until recent years. But it doesn't really matter. My clear message here today is that the Animal Welfare Act applies at all times, even during legal proceedings, point.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-975	Madam President, I would like Elin Segerlind has asked me whether I intend to work for legislative proposals to stop the felling of forests with high natural values, whether I intend to work for strengthened regulation to strengthen environmental considerations in forestry, whether I intend to work to ensure that the state, as recommended by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, makes great efforts to ensure that protected forests are not harvested, whether I intend to pursue a national objective for the protection of densely populated forests and strengthen the legislation to protect forests with particularly high values for recreation and outdoor life and, finally, whether I intend to work to increase knowledge of where our remaining forests with high natural values are located and that this knowledge is made available to the Swedish people. I would like to begin by saying that it is my clear ambition and that the government's clear ambition is not to cut off forests that are worthy of protection but to preserve them, either through formal protection or voluntary provisions, and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. Forest policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. It is possible and desirable to develop both of these elements. The government is working to implement the material political agreement that was reached in January 2019 between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, the so-called January Agreement. As part of the work, the Government decided to set up an investigation that was tasked with exploring the possibilities and proposing measures to strengthen ownership of forests, new flexible forms of protection and compensation for the protection of forest land and how international biodiversity commitments can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy The report of the report "Strengthening property rights, flexible forms of protection and nature conservation in forests" (SOU 2020:73) was submitted to the Minister for Environment and Climate Action on 30 November 2020 and has recently been sent out for consultation. As this proposal is prepared by the Government Office, I cannot precede this process. Finally, I would like to agree with Elin Segerlind on the importance that we are now working towards sustainable forestry.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-980	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The starting point of all we do needs to be that it should happen within the boundaries of nature and the planet. This also applies to forestry and then not only in the Amazon but also here in Sweden. Today, the vast majority of Swedish forests are affected in different ways by forestry. Many forests have also been replaced by production forests, once calved and now more plantations than living forests. The picture is often that Sweden has the world's best forestry. An example. Isn't that how we look at ourselves? But is it really a reasonable self - image? In Sweden we do not even have a definition of what sustainable forestry is, and we continue to use our natural forests. Sweden has such large areas of forest that we should be able to dispose of this 20% of our forests for protection and sustainable forestry on other areas. There is no reason but economic to continue to take down our remaining natural forests. Around 2 000 forest species in Sweden are on the Red List. That is to say, they are threatened or have fallen sharply. Their future is uncertain, and the single biggest reason for this is intensive and unsustainable forestry. Despite the fact that many endangered species lack habitats, forests with high natural values continue to be harvested – also by Sveaskog, our state forest company, which through clear ownership directives could have a different focus. Now they too cannot take into account biodiversity, social considerations or reindeer grazing grounds, to name but a few things. Despite the fact that, as the Minister says, we have a forestry law that says that there should be equivalence and a balance between environmental and production interests, it is clear that it is right now the economic interests in the forest that are given higher priority. There are insufficient environmental considerations, and the government has not taken any measures to strengthen environmental concerns in forestry, but instead chooses to develop an investigation to strengthen voluntaryity and property rights. The Left Party has long wanted to see Sweden stop the logging of forests with high natural values. In spite of the considerable lack of this type of natural environment and the fact that biodiversity depletion has not been slowed down, it is now being cut off. State Sveaskog is not without a part of this. As the largest owner of forest, as well as a state-owned company, Sveaskog has a responsibility to take the lead and be a role model. Last week, new data showed that Sveaskog sells land that is important reindeer grazing land in order to avoid conflicts with the Sami villages. Since Sveaskog has a requirement to consult on felling, this may lead to a refusal to fell, but the requirement for consultation does not apply to sales. This was done on the land of the Samebyn Loukta-Máva-Máva, where Sveaskog wanted to harvest 700 hectares in an already hard-cut area. There was resistance, and they backed back. But now someone else is felling on those lands. We need to increase the proportion of protected forests but also environmental concerns in forestry. The Government will be happy to answer the question again. Will the government work towards strengthened regulation to improve environmental considerations in the ongoing forestry sector?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-992	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Elin Segerlind, for a very interesting and important question! The forest is very important for Sweden. It represents jobs and growth and opportunities for recreation. It is both affected and part of the challenges of climate change, and it is an important part when it comes to the need for ecosystems that are well-being. One can easily conclude that the condition to which the forest is to reach is not small. I can also say that it is the policy's task and responsibility to ensure that we create long-term rules for the forest and for the future conditions of the forest. It is politics that somewhere has to set priorities and strike the right balance between all these great interests, because I do not see how any of these interests can be, undisputed, once we decide on the direction ahead. As part of managing these challenges and ensuring that we continue to have high value added in our forest and forestry, which is what we build much of our bnp and our prosperity on in Sweden, the government has appointed the Forest Investigation. It presented its report or proposal on 30 November and has now been sent out for consultation in full. The forest investigation has a rather ambitious approach to taking a holistic approach to the forest. You talk about what you see is needed to strengthen ownership, how compensation should be given when marketing, at what level it should be voluntary or mandatory and how to work to ensure that we have sufficient knowledge of our forests. That's one part. In the second part it is stated that Sweden has good reasons to ensure that we work with sustainability in our operations, that we live up to international commitments and that we work actively to protect the forest. There is no doubt that we are going to do this. On the other hand, one can have a big discussion about how much forest and which forest it is, what it costs and at the expense of what. And, as I said, our role will be to balance in this. I think one important thing about the Forest investigation is that it is still trying to take a holistic approach to the issue. I miss politicians so far who are prepared to do the same. So far, everyone is bribing their basic attitude and position on the issue. It can be perfectly natural in a situation where we eventually need to negotiate on this, because we come from different perspectives. But forestry issues – whether it's about being able to protect and protect more forests, develop ecosystem services, create more jobs, improve production and value chains, or achieve climate change, or whether it's for owners – require that we have a long-term perspective at the bottom, which creates long-term conditions. Politics is unable to provide a longer-term perspective to any industry unless one seeks the largest and the lowest common denominator. Everything else is short-sighted and can be thrown away every four years because the majority in this House is changing. I think that would be unfortunate in an industry where all these different areas require huge investments, which will not pay off for perhaps 10, 70 or 100 years.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1001	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Our role is to keep our balance, says the Minister. Had it been that we had to date protected 30 or 40 percent of Swedish forests, I might have been able to agree that it would be time to talk about some kind of balance in the other direction. But the reason why we are so clearly sticking to our starting point is that we have not even reached 10%. It is far from balance in the Swedish forest today. The other day Frans Timmermans said, I think it was, in SVT's Report that the forest is an area where Sweden will have to make many adjustments in order for Sweden and the EU in turn to reach the emissions and climate targets by 2050, which is the EU's goal. There were some reactions to this in Sweden, especially from active foresters. Let us be honest – we have been to the same meetings and have listened several times to the same discussions here in Parliament and elsewhere. I do not know how you have understood it, but to me it is quite clear that Sweden when it comes to forestry issues is sometimes a rather reluctant country. We would prefer to adapt the climate regulations that are linked to our forestry policy in such a way that it suits the activities we already have. Rarely do we move in a more progressive direction, for more protected forest. Just look at the discussion now about taxonomy, for example, or the endless discussion we had about LULUCF – in the end the discussion boils down to one thing, namely that we in Sweden want to be able to continue, preferably completely undisturbed, with our forestry as it looks today. We put production before the environment time and time again. I do not really think that the Government is giving an answer to my question. The reference to the Forest Investigation and its referral is quite flat because the investigation does not really have any concrete proposals that deal with strengthening environmental concerns in forestry. Instead, the government and the Government are taking the centre-party line on property rights above all. This is also visible in the forest investigation's assignments and results. It's a bit so that as you ask, you get answers. Therefore, there are also no proposals to strengthen the regulation of forestry in order to improve conservation considerations and safeguard biodiversity. These are urgent issues. Measures for more sustainable forestry cannot be put off; this needs to be done now. Should we dispose of all our natural forests today, we would not even reach the lowest level of forest protection that we in Sweden have undertaken to have. But it is not just that, I think, because our natural forests continue to be harvested, despite the Government's ambition that protective forests should not be harvested. This is happening, so where do we see the ambition that you say you have? And if that is a clear ambition, why did we not see any trace of this in the Forest investigation? Once again, bourgeois special interests are put before our common interests of sustainable forestry and a nature with strong biodiversity. Some of Europe's last old forests face threats of felling here in Sweden. If we do not do anything now, unique habitats for many species are at risk of being lost. I would therefore like to ask the Government: is it your serious assessment that production targets and environmental objectives are, in practice, equal in forestry policy?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1009	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Elin Segerlind, for developing your questions! When Elin Segerlind makes it clear that we do, however, have different views on how things stand, that is, how things stand. When Elin Segerlind accuses me of going in the name of the bourgeoisie in terms of property rights, which I strongly oppose as a true picture, she chooses to see only half of the Forest investigation with that statement, to take this as an example from it. I also note that Elin Segerlind, when you start talking about how much forest we have protected, chooses to go on one extreme. Here we have different perspectives, especially when we talk about how much forest is protected. The industry, that is, the forest owners, want to count in very much, and the natural interests, or parts of them, want to count in very little. Elin Segerlind isn't trying to land in the middle. She's at one end. I think that's a shame. If we are to pursue a serious policy that brings all these issues forward, we need to do so on the basis that we agree on certain facts. In terms of the percentage of forest protected, for example, we had SCB weigh up tutti, and they landed at just over 20 or 25 percent. I do not remember the figure at the moment, but it was much higher than what nature conservation stakeholders think is right and lower than what the industry thinks is right in this context. That figure has never been accepted, because people continue to use their own definition. It's deeply problematic, I think. The point cannot be that we should argue about this but must be to look at how good we are, what we do, what should be protected and whether we protect the right things. How do we ensure that we have sustainable use in our production forests? It is a debate that does not exist at all in forestry policy today, which I think is deeply problematic. As a social democrat, I believe that we should cultivate forests in Sweden. It is an important raw material that builds jobs and growth throughout the country, accounts for more than 3 per cent of our GDP and is also absolutely necessary to switch to a fossil-free society and climate change, for example. So for me it is a matter of course that we should farm forests. However, we shall do so as wisely as possible and with as much care as possible about natural values and other things. It is also self-evident that we should set aside sheltered forests. But it should be done based on good knowledge and facts about what to set aside, based on reasonable remuneration levels and a lot of other things. But here again there is a picture that we in Sweden would be bad, which I do not buy. I really think that all of us who sit in the Swedish Parliament should be proud of the forestry we have in Sweden. This does not mean that we should be uncritical about it and that it cannot be improved and developed. But compared to other countries, we are good in Sweden. I can also note that when we report in Sweden to meet international commitments, we do so in a different way from all other countries. This means that we do not report everything except production, as almost everyone else does. So if you go on such numbers, it beats a lot. This is what we could do and fight about until the days of death without getting along. I think that we need to raise our eyes and note, firstly, that we in Sweden are good, secondly, that we need to develop a lot of things, thirdly, that we need to deal with all the different levels of development that exist in this and fourthly, that it is our damned duty to find ways forward.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1017	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Minister did not answer my question about whether the production targets and environmental objectives are, in practice, equal forest policy. The Minister will have to come back to that in his closing speech. When the Minister says that she misses the debate on what sustainable forestry can be, I think that is what the Minister and I are doing here and now. The Left Party believes that we need a new forestry policy with a strongly increased ambition for the environment and the climate, a forestry policy that puts biodiversity at the top and sees the value of sustainable forestry. Today's forest programme was adopted long before climate change was a factor in our political decisions. The situation has changed drastically over the last 30 years. We need a stronger environmental dimension, and in order for forests to be managed and protected in a way that makes sustainable use of resources, we need an up-to-date forestry legislation. The Pandemin has given us a new form of green wave. More and more find their way out into our forests, many have begun to reflect on what they see and more and more are raising their voices towards unsustainable forestry in general and the huge caleavage in particular. Attention is also paid to the lack of the old natural forest. The forest has many values – for the climate, for biodiversity, for the reindeer industry and for nature tourism as well as for social values in our everyday lives. When we talk about Swedish forestry in the future, we also need to take into account that whole. But no matter what we do, we need to act within the framework of nature. If the climate crisis has taught us anything so far, that is what happens when we do not. My final question to the Minister is therefore whether the government is prepared to carry out a real review of forestry policy and bring it into the 20th century.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1025	Madam President, I would like Time flies when you're having fun, I almost say. We could really stand here and talk about this for a lot longer. But since the time is now very short, I will try to content myself with saying a few things. First of all, I would like to say that Sweden and I believe that the forest is a national competence, as a commentary on an earlier commentary on how we act against the European Union. It is an important Swedish basic principle. Then we work actively to develop all the different areas. For example, between 2012 and 2019 we have protected an additional 140 000 hectares of forest with high natural values below the border of mountain forest. It is quite a big commitment, and I can see that there are proposals in the forestry investigation for further commitments. We will look at all the suggestions. We will weigh them, and we will make wise, balanced choices forward. When it comes to biodiversity and what this development looks like, it is Artdatabanken that holds the Red List in Sweden. If you look at it you can see that we have a fairly stable position in Sweden. Having said that, I don't think it's good enough. It is clear that we should improve in all areas where we are bad. However, I think it is wrong to talk as if things are constantly getting worse. Data doesn't support that. It varies a little between different species. We have both species that improve and species that worsen. On the whole, we have 62 000 species and 2 449 are in and out of the list. It still means that we are really quite good at this. Above all, developments over the past 10 to 20 years have remained stagnant. What we are going to do now is, of course, when we develop forestry policy, try to work with sustainable farming. I believe that much of the key lies there: in making sure that we are even better at biodiversity too, because we need to be.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1031	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take in order for Sweden to meet the food strategy's objective of increasing food production so that we also become more robust for crisis and war, what I intend to do to ensure that farmers do not stop their activities because of attacks by wolves and if I have any plans to come up with proposals that would promote the creation of large food facilities in order to reduce the vulnerability of agriculture. For the government, the food strategy's objective of increasing food production is a priority. A strong food production with a high Swedish market share is based on competitive agricultural and food companies. It is also a prerequisite for our ability to supply and food readiness. J word farming companies have an important role to play in realising the food strategy's goal of increased production and at the same time contribute to the Swedish environmental goals and living countryside. The key to more people wanting to invest in agriculture is that it is perceived as attractive and profitable. The Food Strategy Action Plans include efforts on a large number of measures taken at both national and regional level to ensure generally good business conditions for the food chain. The Food Strategy Action Plan Part 2 contains long-term measures that are funded by SEK 122 million annually until 2025. In addition, an additional investment of SEK 114 million was made in 2020. The action plan includes investments in, among other things, skills provision and research. The budget proposal for 2021 added an additional SEK 74 million for 2021 to strengthen work on the food strategy, and for the years 2022 and 2023 the corresponding amount is calculated. The proposed measures together form an action plan part 3. In the context of the Food Strategy, increased food exports are a tool for increasing food production. By creating a larger market for Swedish food companies, we also create opportunities for Swedish primary production to grow in the long term as well as opportunities for processed products with added value to reach the export market. In working on the future CAP, the conditions and regulatory simplification of enterprises are also an important starting point. The Government has commissioned the National Agriculture Agency to submit proposals for future measures. The mission includes proposing measures for start-up and for facilitating generational change. These may include start-up aid, income support and investment aid for young people. It should be possible for people to live and work in their green industries in the countryside. It is important to create the conditions for coexistence between predators and humans. The State therefore contributes to preventive measures, such as predator-repellent fences, or compensation for damage caused by predators. During its term of office, the Government has taken several measures in this area. At the end of last year, the regulation allowing farms to receive support for the maintenance of predator-repellent fences, the relocation of grazing animals and the care of injured animals, for example, was extended. The government has also decided to remove the current amount limit so that support can be given with 100 percent of the actual cost caused by predators. This amendment shall enter into force on 1 March 2021. In addition, the grant for the promotion of reindeer nutrition and more has been increased by SEK 15 million from 2021 and thereafter SEK 12 million per year. The grant amounts to SEK 129 million as of this year. At present, the government is reviewing the regulatory framework for setting minimum levels for large predators in order to increase the flexibility between counties, thus facilitating the process of dissipation of the wolf population, including through its spread across larger areas of the country. In conclusion, I would like to say that Alexandra Anstrell and I share the ambitions of Swedish agriculture. I also see that we have a good potential to increase Swedish food production, as there is a broad political majority.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1041	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. There were quite a few debates tonight that it would have been interesting to be in, but you do not have time for everything. Swedish farmers produce food of high quality and also in a sustainable way. We Moderates protect Swedish agriculture and think that farmers should be able to focus on core activities instead of unnecessary charges and regulatory burdens. We also think that animal activism has gone too far, and I think we agree on that. This really needs to be curbed. No farmer should have to face threats and harassment because they are involved in animal husbandry. The farmers are the ones who feed us on the table and should be hailed as heroes instead. The Committee on Agriculture and the Environment's monitoring and evaluation team has recently presented a report called the vulnerability of agriculture – a follow-up. The report concludes that there are many risks of vulnerability. The main risk is the lack of fuel, but there is also the risk that many farmers are dependent on EU and other subsidies, that it is difficult to find staff with the right skills and that there are few large food facilities. Many keepers have ceased their activities as the situation has become unsustainable for various reasons, including wolf attacks. In many places around Sweden where the wolf has taken domestic animals, breeding animals or pets, this has led to the owners often not being able to cope. They simply cannot carry on their business. The fact that farms are forced to close down is not only unfair to owners and problematic for rural entrepreneurship as a whole, but also a step backwards for Swedish food supply and access to local raw materials. At the beginning of the 1990s, we produced a great many more per cent of the country's food than we do today. Yet we are many more Swedes today, but we do not produce any more food. The level of self-sufficiency has fallen, and with that we also become less robust. With a higher level of self-sufficiency, we become more robust, for example when it comes to being able to deal with different types of crises, barriers to trade or, for that matter, pandemics. In Sweden today we lack clear strategic orientations and ambition levels for an effective contingency planning that could create a coherent overall defence planning. Yesterday there was an investigation into the management and control of civilian detention, but with regard to contingency planning, we seem to be light years behind many other colleagues across Europe. What we do know, however, is that entrepreneurs are obliged to help, but we do not really know how. Several studies show that there is a need to set up a business council for total defence, but despite the investigation we must not see such a thing on the ground. The vulnerability of our food supply is clear because we have a low level of self-sufficiency and neither do we have sufficient reserves or plans for it. Madam President, I would like We do not even have a fuel supply, which is central for our farmers to be able to continue their operations in case of increased preparedness. I have asked the Minister for Rural Development what concrete measures the Government intends to take in order for Sweden to meet the food strategy's objective of increasing food production so that we also become more robust in crisis and war. I get most of the answers about how much money is invested and so on, but I don't really get any answers on how to follow up that what you bet leads to the desired result. I agree with the Government that it is crucial for more people to want to invest in agriculture that it is perceived as attractive and profitable, but how does the Government intend to help farmers to make it more profitable?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1054	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Alexandra Anstrell, for an important question. The previous government decided on the food strategy. This was done in this House in full agreement – all of Sweden's political parties were behind that work. I think it was very important. It was the first time that Sweden ever got a strategy for how we should work with the development of this sector, and it is something that separates us from countries that are later on and that we are jealous of, for example Denmark or Germany. Much of what is a problem is linked to the issues of profitability, which, by the way, I think is by far the single most important reason why an entrepreneur closes down his business in this sector. But another part of the problem is that you have not done what you would have had to do five, ten or fifteen years ago. We have invested too little in research and innovation. We've invested too little in collaboration. We have invested too little in taking advantage of the potential of creating premium products for a world market. The operators have been too small to be able to make their own way into an export market and so on. All these things were identified linked to working on the food strategy. In three different action plans we have taken care of this type of experience and the strategically important initiatives that the industry, together with authorities and others, have identified to increase profitability in the long term. There is also a discussion about it being labelled at farm level here and now, and of course you need to relate to that. It's sad if Alexandra Anstrell thinks it's boring to hear how much money the government is spending on this, but I think it's still a little important that you dare to prioritise this industry so clearly and make as big investments as we are now actually doing if you're going to reverse a development that has been negative over a very long time. I note that there are four major priority areas here. It is about skills supply, research and innovation, exports and – now I forgot the fourth – digitalisation, I think. These areas are, I believe, crucial in the long term. I can also note that in the latest research bill, which is not a product that I own, but which of course rests on the whole of the research, the proportion of research on green industries and rural and regional development increased sharply. Over 500 million will be invested in this four-year period. It is very much desired by the industry that it is ensured that you can research and look at developing business models, production methods, new products, new products and new services. It is fundamental and things that Sweden is good at. We need to take care of that. We also need to take advantage of experiences from, for example, the pandemic and the crisis. We're still in the middle of a crisis. I can share Alexandra Anstrell's concern about how to handle complete shutdowns. The pandemic has been very challenging. We have handled food security well because Sweden is not the only country that is not self-sufficient in food – I would say that no country in the EU is – and therefore there was a common interest in finding ways to keep it open. But we need to learn from this and ensure that we deal with other crises at least as well or better.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1063	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister says that it should be possible for people to live and work in their green industries in the countryside. I very much agree with the Minister that it is important. But then you must be able to live and work without ever having to be afraid of predatory attacks, threats and harassment by animal rights terrorists or other things. The Minister says that the government has taken several measures such as the maintenance of predator-repellent fences, the removal of grazing animals and the care of injured animals, and that is a good thing. But I represent Stockholm County here in the Riksdag, and Stockholm County has a lot of archipelago. Haninge, for example, consists of about 75 percent of water, and wolves are good swimmers. Those who run their husbandry by water cannot, of course, have to fence their entire land against the water, does the Minister mean? In theory, this could mean that we need to fence large parts of the Stockholm archipelago. We cannot have that from either a ownership, a beach protection or an all-man's-right perspective. Then it takes a few other methods. It should be possible for people to live and work in their green industries in the countryside. Yes, I still agree with the Minister. But many farmers are thousands of artists, and a lot of them have both agriculture and forestry to manage and maybe that's what the farm looks like. If the proposals of the forest investigation that were debated here before would go through as it looks today, how should one interpret that it should be possible to live and work in their green industries in the countryside? How, then, is it possible to make generational changes when, for example, the Forest Investigation proposes to tie forest owners back 100 km after the mountain line? Madam President, I would like I have been in contact with a number of forest owners up in Jämtland. A large part of the designated mountain forests do not seem to contain the values that the investigation claims they are doing. The study says that provisions need not be made for biological and genetic diversity but for their value as coherent ecosystems. The only problem is that a great deal of what has been pointed out is not connected. It is fragmented by forest road networks, for example. For me it will be very difficult to understand how it could promote generational changes or that you should be able to live and work in your green industries in the countryside. How do the Minister and the Government intend to strengthen it in order to increase profitability? How can farmers survive and contribute to an increased level of self-sufficiency if they are opposed from so many quarters? The Minister said earlier this evening that we should make decisions based on facts and good knowledge. Does the Minister feel that the Minister has received it with the forest investigation that has submitted its report? How is it to be seen as attractive and profitable when we have a large number of farmers and keepers who are exposed to threats and harassment? It makes no sense to me. Threats, harassment, theft, trespassing, burial, arson and vandalism are directed not only against individual traders but often against their families and relatives. It's quite common. Last morning I heard on the radio that the police in the south are stepping up to reach this even more. But it is quite difficult for the judiciary to deal with, because it is often masked people. The existence of families, businesses and food security is threatened by the dismantling of our democratic principles. Madam President, I would like I think the Minister agrees with me that crime against keepers, politicians and hunters must never be normalised or accepted by a society. But more effort is needed here. When are they coming?
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1073	Madam President, I would like I'll start from behind. I fully agree that the existence of crimes and threats is unacceptable. There is often a political or ideological agenda, in a totally unacceptable way. It can never be accepted by society. That is why we have also taken a number of different measures. We have made sure, for example, that there is no need for permission to have camera surveillance on the farm and looked over the scales of penalties and criminal offences. There is currently work going on at the Government Office to make even more of it. It is also planned that during this year something will come to Parliament about a further escalation of this. I think we agree that this is totally unacceptable. It is also important to work to remove things that are challenges and obstacles to operating but also things that build strong conditions. The basic foundation of the food strategy is to strengthen food production in Sweden in the long term. It's important, and I've explained some things in it. I still believe that profitability is the most important thing for us to have increased self-sufficiency, to produce more in Sweden and to ensure that it becomes a growing industry that can take advantage of its full potential. There are other issues linked to what is also important and that have not been mentioned before in the debate. I mentioned briefly the FOI initiative of more than 500 million before. But we also have such a proposal as UTP. An investigation has now come to Parliament about unfair trading practices. The government now chooses to come forward with a proposal in this area to strengthen small operators, primary producers and the food processing sector's chances of getting better paid for what they produce. It simply creates more even relationships in the system between sellers and buyers. It is essential to create profitability in that chain, not least in primary production. If you are going to produce premium products, you have to be able to get paid for them. All in all, a great deal is happening in this area. We also see encouraging trend breaks in the development. I will not argue that it is only the food strategy's merit, but I do believe it contributes. The total value increased by approximately 1% between 2019 and 2020 and is approaching 64 billion, if I remember correctly. Pulling numbers out of my head now is a little dangerous just before 23 o'clock and after many hours of debate, but if no one shoots me if I may be a little wrong, it is still a significant trend break. We also see that milk weighing increases for the first time in five years. Swedish consumers increasingly opt out of eating meat. Total consumption is thus falling. But for Swedish meat it goes up. What is happening, then, is that imports on that side are decreasing. The impact of imports and exports is therefore of great benefit to Swedish meat, as conscious Swedish consumers choose to buy quality products. We need to work with all the different tools that contribute to this type of process.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1079	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. The report to which I referred earlier concludes that there are quite a few risks of vulnerability to our farmers. It is mainly about the lack of fuel, the difficulty of finding staff and the small number of large food facilities. We do not therefore have safe fuel preparedness in Sweden. That's a pretty big problem. And no major solutions are in the pipeline. The difficulty of finding staff for agriculture is also a major issue. How can the profession be made attractive when a certain part of one's activity is banned from business, when one is exposed to threats and hatred and when one has his animals torn down by wolf and other predators? How will the government make it attractive to be a farmer? They work daily to increase our level of self-sufficiency, so that we can have good food here today but also for increased robustness in the event of crisis and war. How does the government intend to act so that farmers' profitability can increase down the last row, so that more large food facilities can also be set up? Farmers get up every day early in the morning and run their farms with pride. Not only are they looking for profitability but they also have a pride and a great love for agriculture, for the earth and for their animals.
i-ef37fe91c9c6c751-1083	Madam President, I would like My picture is that there is a great deal of consensus within Swedish politics that it is a priority issue. I also interpret the consensus on developing a food strategy as meaning that, in that situation, we all practiced self-criticism in some sense because we had not previously had long-term strategies in place. We noted that it was necessary. Now it's in place. But of course not everything is good with it. Long-term, continuous and continued investment in the building of these activities is needed. It is about research and innovation, export initiatives, export approval, supply of skills, connection between the high school of nature conservation, professional practice and SLU, and so on, to address this type of problem. It's all going on. But it takes time and requires long-termness and perseverance. Having said that, we see positive trends. In almost all areas we see positive developments. They produce more, they have slightly better profitability and, above all, they increase exports a lot. It is gratifying and very important, not least when we talk about creating conditions for large plants. Sweden is many times, if you talk about high quality premium products, a rather small market. We have every reason to be proud of Swedish production and want it to be able to reach larger markets at a good price, so that we can continue to invest in the domestic. Crisis and war have I missed in every post. It's important. I think we should learn from the pandemic and identify the vulnerabilities that exist in the system: the high proportion and dependence on seasonal workers is one thing. Another is to ensure that we have, for example, inputs that mean that in the event of war or total shutdown we can increase production or if we cannot produce. We will come back to this in the further work on civil defence.
