i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-16	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me how the work on producing a final proposal for a reformed beach protection is progressing. Eric Palmqvist has also asked how the government thinks about proposing relaxations in beach protection in order to increase the attractiveness of rural municipalities for both housing and entrepreneurship. As Eric Palmqvist mentions in his interpellation, the report on the review of beach protection was presented to the government in December 2020. The report has since been referred, and the period for referral was up to and including 3 May this year. The ongoing preparation within the Government Office of the investigation's proposal is ongoing. I cannot precede this preparation. But I can – like Eric Palmqvist – note that the directives for the investigation show, among other things, that in areas with low exploitation pressure it should be easier to build close to the shore. Such areas will also create better conditions for housing and business activities, especially for small businesses, tourism and green industries.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-18	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation, although, perhaps for given reasons, it is not so comprehensive. The fact that, as I am at present, there is an interpellation is always difficult. Either the government has been able to point out a direction and can give some concrete answers, or, as in this case, it is difficult for the Government to respond at all, since no ready proposal is lurking behind the corner. The Government cannot be blamed for that, but that is at least the reason why this interpellation debate may not be as tense as interpellation debates may otherwise be. The President and any audience may simply overlook it. Well, I live in Gällivare, one of all the municipalities where long called for relief in beach protection rules. This is something we have in common with the other 13 municipalities in my constituency, Norrbotten. In several of our Norrbotten municipalities, we are struggling to limit the increasing exodus, while some municipalities actually believe and hope to reverse the trend and move in. For this to be possible, of course, a series of puzzle pieces must fall into place for those people who weigh between leaving their municipality or staying in it and perhaps even more for the people we want to attract to move in. Some of these pieces of the puzzle are things we can influence ourselves in the municipalities, while other pieces of the puzzle are linked to the decisions made in this Chamber or on the other side of the water, in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like I am not only a member of Parliament but also a council member of my municipality Gällivare. We are now in budgetary times, and everyone who has worked with the municipal budget in a smaller Swedish municipality knows how hard a declining tax base can beat. For many smaller municipalities, the level and quality of municipal services depend directly on whether people move out – or in. A piece of the puzzle that has often been pointed out as important in this context is one of those on the government table – the beach shelter. It is an issue that could be the key to creating the right conditions for attractive housing or business start-ups in truly scenic places. Many of us are northern bottoms that with envy see what it looks like on the Norwegian side of the rich border. If you travel along the E10 from Kiruna to Narvik you can see almost nothing on the Swedish side but mountains, Torne träsk, Malmbanan and a few houses along the 13 mil. But as soon as you get over on the Norwegian side there are cabins a bit everywhere in the fantastic nature. The Norwegians have made nature available to the people. Why isn't this possible? Therefore, the news was received that the beach protection rules would be investigated with joy and hope in many places, not least in my county. However, the investigation resulted in a report that gave the joy of coming off and turning to criticism and scepticism – a criticism which, in any case, is supported by all the municipalities in my constituency. It is a criticism of the strengthening of the powers of the county administrative boards and the weakening of the demand for municipal self-determination. How did this happen, and was that really the government's intention? That is why, Madam President, I venture to ask the Prime Minister the following, even if the Prime Minister has stated that he does not wish to pre-empt the government's preparation of the matter: can the Prime Minister here today give some reassuring information to the local politicians in my constituency, Norrbotten?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-28	Madam President, I would like That we want a positive development in Norrbotten is beyond doubt. I am pleased and proud of the policy taken by the government. This applies not least to the high climate ambitions, which are now generating huge climate-driven investments in industry. We are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars, and we are talking about 100 000 new jobs that could benefit northern Sweden. That is something that is extremely positive, and I am very pleased that the green policy that we have been pursuing now gives rise to this. This applies, among other things, to Gällivare but also to many other places. It is a hugely exciting development that is taking place now, and it also means that there is a need to build many new homes in order to receive all the new workers who will be able to find work within and around the new climate-driven industries. It is clear that conversion offers opportunities throughout the country. That is something we have been talking about for a very long time from the government and my party. Now we see it happening, which is incredibly stimulating and gratifying. The study on the protection of the shore is set up with directives, and the directives can draw some conclusions about what we want to achieve. The most important message is that the investigator should review how to make it much easier to build in rural areas. It is about building housing, which, as I said, is needed, not least in northern Sweden with the development we see. But it is also about, for example, business and other activities. At the same time, it is important in politics – and I think Eric Palmqvist agrees – that you can hold two balls in the air at the same time. There are challenges in terms of beach protection and the possibility of protecting valuable nature and doing exactly what Eric Palmqvist is calling for – making nature accessible to the people. We know that the beaches are incredibly important environments for plants and wildlife. They are usually called ecological hotspots, where there is a lot of species wealth. It is therefore also important that there are beaches that are accessible to animals and nature. But it is also, and not least, about all of us as Swedish citizens being able to use the right of public access that we have written into the law. We shall have the opportunity to enjoy Swedish nature regardless of whether we have the financial resources to buy our own house or whether we want to go hiking or discover nature with our children. It is a principle that I think is very important. During the pandemic, we have now seen how much environmental and climate commitment and not least commitment to nature has grown and how the Swedish people have almost gone out of the house to visit nature areas nearby and be able to get the power and energy that nature gives. Then I think we have a great responsibility to ensure that this opportunity is available throughout the country. However, it is clear that beaches have been built at a fairly high rate even in Sweden. It is certainly not the case, as some debaters make it sound, that there has been some kind of dead hand over development. If you look at how much of Sweden's coastline is built, you can see that it is already 28 percent of the total coastline that is affected by settlements – this was 2018; it has perhaps developed since then. Only between 2015 and 2018, for a couple of years, it increased by just under 3 percent. With such a development, it is easy to see that in a few decades' time there will be little access to beaches. This is something we must take seriously. Therefore, it is important to be able to have this dual perspective: to be able to make it easier to build in areas where there is relatively low population pressure and not so much exploitation pressure, but at the same time be able to ensure that beach protection works in areas in Sweden where there is very high exploitation pressure.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-39	Madam President, I would like That there is a difference between exploitation pressure along beaches in Sweden, we are in complete agreement. In my own constituency, and especially in my own municipality, the pressure on exploitation is exceptionally low. It is a huge municipality with very small population, so there is definitely room to let go of the rules there. The Government also emphasises the efforts made in Norrbotten. These are initiatives that I often point out in this speaker's chair. When I moved to Gällivare 13 years ago, it looked a bit like Chernobyl, and it is a little worse today with the dismantling of Malmberget. I believe that the Government itself has been up and seen what it looks like. If he hasn't, I would recommend the Government to make a trip up to Gällivare and see how mining affects our city, positively and negatively. The investments made are fantastic, but they must also be made for housing. However, you should not have an overbelief in people's desire to move in unless attractive housing is built. I've been working in the mining industry myself, and I've seen how much escape in and escape out you've got. People are not inclined to move to Gällivare, when you see it as a work colony. The existence or non-being of beach protection rules, or rather their design, is not a new issue. These are issues that have been dealt with in this House many times. I searched the Swedish Parliament's website yesterday and got 1,600 hits on the beach protection. The fact that this is an issue that is involved is therefore not an exaggeration. A review and modernisation of beach protection rules has been in demand for a long time, and expectations have been very high. A review of the beach protection rules was also part of the so-called January agreement. In its reply to me, the Government states that the directives to the Strandskyddsutvecklingen show, among other things, that in areas with low exploitation pressure it should be easier to build beachside. He also says that in such areas better conditions will also be created for housing and business activities mainly for small businesses, tourism and green industries. Madam President, I would like I believe that there are many municipal politicians who have taken this on board and have high expectations that the government is now delivering a bill that meets the high expectations. I know that it is anticipating the preparation of the government, but at the same time it is in this situation, when there is still no proposal on which there is still room for political input and time for reflection on the part of those who are working on the issue. So, if the Government allows, I would urge him to consider some of what I am saying in this debate as a contribution to the further work on the issue. Since what the Government says in its answer seems to run counter to how the investigators' proposals are perceived by the decision-makers in many of the municipalities concerned, the question remains: Can the Council of State here today promise to work to ensure that the Government's final proposal will not come true to the fears of reduced municipal influence over beach protection held by Norrbotten's municipal politicians?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-48	Madam President, I would like I can assure Mr Palmqvist that I will take with me the comments that come out of this debate, just as we also take with us the comments that came into the consultation round that ended in May. At the same time, I cannot help but note that if one is concerned about a proposal that takes steps forward, it is, of course, an advantage if there is a government that can present such a proposal. Given that we have a motion of censure waiting for Monday, we shall see how things are going on in this matter. There is, of course, a risk that this process will also put some obstacles in the way of the process of presenting a proposal in this case. But that is not the issue we are going to debate here and now. I also find it exciting to see how we now have a completely different rural development from what we have had in many years in Sweden. It is not without pride that it is under a red-green government that it is happening. We have often been accused of having a policy that would hamper the development of sparsely populated parts of our country in various ways. It is easy to conclude that this is not the case, on the contrary. We are now implementing a green transition with high climate targets but also with the possibility of supporting the large climate investments that need to be made to replace steel production with coal, which gives rise to approximately 10 percent of Swedish emissions, to instead produce carbon with hydrogen without any carbon dioxide emissions. In fact, this is now generating a huge development in Sweden. Even the investments made in the expansion of renewable energy throughout our country are something that really generates growth and power far from Stureplan, out in places where there has been a great need for investments and investments in the past. Then, too, the attitude of the January Contracting Parties is that we want to make it easier to build in areas that have had low exploitation pressures. That is also what the investigation has been looking at. I would like to be able to give Mr Palmqvist clear answers, but since we are still preparing the proposal and are not finished with what it will look like, it is not possible to give detailed answers. However, it is clear in the study that the ambition is to give municipalities more and no less influence. It is something that also guides our work on taking forward the investigation proposals. At the same time, I would like to emphasise what I was into a previous speech: There are also great values in the fantastic nature that Sweden has. There, too, we are pleased to see a development in the business sector that also generates a great many jobs around the country. What is usually called natural tourism is a very strongly growing industry in Sweden and provides a lot of jobs, which is also long-term. They'll still be here. A mine is there as long as the minerals are available, but then the jobs will not be there. On the other hand, nature tourism, based on nature, which we can protect and ensure remains, provides permanent jobs. It also provides a lot of extracurricular activities in the hotel and restaurant industry. It simply has a positive impact on the business community throughout the area. It is equally self-evident that it is difficult to carry out nature tourism if you do not have a valuable and accessible nature to carry out it in. Once again, there are strong reasons to look in two directions at the same time, to also see how important it is to have a nature that is accessible to the Swedish people and also visitors from other countries. I am incredibly proud of the Swedish right of public access, but I also see that it cannot be preserved and can last forever unless measures are also taken to ensure that it can be complied with in practice. In order to comply with the right of public access, it is also important to have access to land where you can actually be out in nature. We want to protect that too.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-56	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Much of what the Environment and Climate Minister says about the beach protection here today sounds very good. It can well be pointed out in this context that it is not significant for what I usually think of the views and arguments put forward by the Environment Party's ministers and Members in their debates. I really want to believe and hope that the Government on this particular issue has the best of intentions for the Swedish rural municipalities concerned. Despite this, it is something that hurts, and it is the knowledge that many local politicians throughout our country are concerned about and express disappointment at what is proposed in the report of the inquiry. I hope that once we see the government proposal, we can see that the concerns were unjustified and that the government has heeded the criticism and landed in balanced positions. If we do not have reason to debate the new beach protection rules here in this House during the next Parliamentary session, given that the government will not be dismissed after the events taking place in this House on Monday. Having said that, Madam President, I look forward to the government's forthcoming proposal for beach protection rules. After all, I, and many with me, hope that it will live up to expectations. We'll see about that. I have no final question in this interpellation debate, but since this is most likely my last debate with the Minister for the Environment and Climate before Parliament's summer break, I take the opportunity to wish him a pleasant and Corona-proof summer, although I assume that he still has a lot of work ahead of him before he goes on his summer vacation.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-61	Madam President, I would like Of course, the concerns expressed by Mr Palmqvist are taken very seriously. At the same time, it is important to point out that when you look, for example, at the outcome of the consultation, it is clear that the concerns are going in two different directions. There is also concern about what will happen precisely with the protection of the purposes of beach protection. We have had a beach shelter since the mid-70s that has been important to ensure that in Sweden there are beaches that are available both for outdoor life, which we as people appreciate very much, and for nature that we also have a mission to protect. After all, we have in this Parliament supported objectives that we should have a living animal and plant life, and that is something that we take very seriously. Sometimes there is a feeling that the debate in politics is becoming more and more polarised and that the camps are unable to meet. I'm worried about that. I see it as my task and that of the government, together with our cooperation parties, to show that ways can be found to reconcile different interests and that it is possible to have two objectives and achieve them at the same time. It should be possible to make it easier to build in sparse parts of the country where there are few people and many lakes that you also need to have access to and at the same time tighten the beach protection rules where we know that the exploitation pressure has been large and large parts of the beach areas have already been built. People who do not have an economy that allows them to buy a beach plot should also have the opportunity and the right to enjoy the amazing that Swedish beaches provide. It is our ambition to be able to show that this can be reconciled. With this, I would also like to wish Eric Palmqvist a very nice, restful and Corona-proof summer.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-66	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked the Minister for Energy and Digitalisation what measures the Government will take to ensure that state aid is not at risk of going to climate-damaging activities. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I fully agree with Lorena Delgado Varas that state aid should not go to climate-damaging activities. On the contrary, the Climate Act, adopted in 2018, places a responsibility on current and future governments to pursue policies based on climate targets. The support that Lorena Delgado Varas here refers to grants that the Swedish Energy Agency pays out through Industrikliv with the aim of accelerating projects to find and develop fossil-free solutions. In order to achieve Sweden's goal of having no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045 and then to achieve negative emissions, the transformation of industry is crucial. In order for the industry to be able to switch, substantial investments are needed in new technologies that are often not commercialised. This is why the government launched the 2016 Industriklivet. It is a long-term effort to support companies in developing solutions to reduce process-related emissions in industry that are often difficult to access. Since then, the industrial life has been broadened twice and can now also provide so-called negative emissions techniques and then this year to other industrial projects that can significantly contribute to achieving climate objectives, such as biofuel production, plastic recycling refineries, hydrogen production and battery production. In addition, support should be provided for measures that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions indirectly linked to industrial processes. The funding through Industrikliv is directed directly to the specific projects that are carried out in Sweden for the change of the industry's climate. The support raised by Lorena Delgado Varas is specifically targeted at Preem's various climate change projects. Thus, aid is not paid out for the company's fossil activities or for fossil activities in other companies within the same group. The support from Industrikliv is closely followed up by the Swedish Energy Agency through requirements for reports on how project funds are used and the goal fulfilment of the project. The energy authority also carries out sampling with audits. That heavy industry and, as in this case, fuel companies account for a significant part of Sweden's climate emissions is a fact. To support on rojekt and innovations that facilitate and accelerate their development from fossil to renewable is therefore crucial if we do not want to risk that Sweden's economy loses while global climate emissions just continue to increase. The potential for industrial change is enormous. This also applies, of course, in countries other than Sweden. Sweden is pushing for international and European regulatory frameworks for export credits and other public trade financing to contribute to sustainability and compliance with the Paris Agreement. For example, Swedish export credits should not be used for exploration and extraction of fossil fuels from 2022. We are also building a coalition, Export Finance for Future, with like-minded countries that together want to lead a greener climate finance. We also drive the issue of industrial change globally, for example through the leadership group for industrial change, Lead i t, and raise the industrial skills and the transformation of Swedish companies in international contexts and through our embassies around the world. Sweden is also working to ensure that the EU's trade and cooperation agreements with third countries contribute to the climate transition and the fulfilment of the Paris Agreement.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-75	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Bolund. I am well aware that there is an ambition that state investment, subsidies, guarantees and so on should not be used to promote fossil production or energy through fossil resources. But we're not quite there yet. These are really large companies with large investments that of course are primarily driven by the need for profit. We would like the fossil era to be over, but these companies still see that there is a profit that they do not want to miss and are also willing to continue investing to reach. I would just like to remind you that public authorities have not always been so clear about how they invest or contribute. But that is not really the issue here. Since companies are constantly looking to maximise profits, we can assume that we will see more and more such solutions as Preem has, i.e. creating subsidiaries to run the fossil business and thus not miss the opportunity to create profits in both directions. Preem is now receiving millions of climate grants for its fossil-free projects. But with the other hand they start oil extraction in Côte d'Ivoire. Today, Preem is going back, and other government subsidies such as short-term lay-offs have saved the business. I do not mean to close everything from one day to another, but neither can we extend the process of solutions that allow companies to find ways to constantly maximise profits without taking the climate issue seriously. Should there not be other requirements, such as the fact that, in order to benefit from aid for projects contributing to the transformation, it is not possible to expand the fossil fuel business of all companies under the parent company? Today, companies have extremely difficult ownership and complex international organisations. There are reasons for doing so in this way: firstly, the desire to circumvent responsibilities in both the environment and human rights and, of course, the desire to move profits. In this context, I wonder how well to implement t it is within the authority, for example the Swedish Energy Agency, to call when companies are trying Companies that do not care about the climate are getting harder here at home, but what if, through these complex organisations, these companies still maintain an image here and then continue to engage in anti-climate activities in third countries and circumvent climate legislation through complex business structures? Experts on such approaches are found in the oil, gas and mining industries, which are the most climate-damaging industries.
i-9Pc9g9w6LVBF4dTvUEnUc5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorena Delgado Varas, for an incredibly important question! I can assure you that the government's ambition is not to make small changes and to settle for companies to make some green investments alongside and then continue with their business as usual. Then I think that the whole debate that has been going on regarding the Swedish climate law and the whole climate framework, which clearly aims to move from a fossil society, where we unfortunately still are, to a renewable, sustainable and fossil-free society, has been missed. There is no doubt about that direction and the way. That's where we're going. On the other hand, we need to think about which is the best, most effective and fastest way to get there too. You can see that in different ways. One way, as I take it from Lorena Delgado Varas, is that no companies that are currently engaged in fossil activities should be able to receive any support to develop sustainable production facilities. I think that's a dangerous path. I think it is a path that would lead to a very slow transition. This means, of course, that new companies must grow up that from the beginning are fully focused on only renewable production and sustainable electricity production and that they would replace the old, fossil companies. My hope is that in the future we will not have any fossil companies at all and that the companies that currently operate fossil fuels will actually change to become sustainable. That is exactly what we are calling for. In the Climate Act, we demand that Sweden should not have net greenhouse gas emissions in just 24 years. It's a fast pace of conversion. I hope, of course, that things will go even faster, and we are now seeing a development that is amazing in terms of the development of new technologies that actually give us solutions to things that we have not had an answer to before. How can we produce what we need in the form of steel, cement or, for that matter, energy without fossil fuels, which have unfortunately been at the heart of the emerging industrial society? Let's remember that 80% of the world's energy – it's somewhere in that order – is still fossil. To ignore the fact that that story exists and to say that we are going to build something completely new where none of the previous actors are active I think would lead to us not having a chance to achieve the global environmental goals. On the contrary, I hope that those who have been fossils will take the step of becoming sustainable and renewable instead. But we have not only the Climate Act on Swedish territory, but also the Paris Agreement on a global level, which pushes in the same direction. There, Sweden's voice is very strong internationally to speed up and do more, within the EU but also internationally. Now, countries will develop plans to reduce their emissions and bring their national contributions to reduce climate impact. We will be the driving force to have as high a level of ambition as is possible at all. One truth that I think we need to be able to agree on is also that if there are no puzzle pieces to put the puzzle for sustainable society with, unless there are techniques that can actually take over after the fossils, we will not have a chance to move forward. It is precisely by providing state aid to develop the sustainable new technologies that there is an opportunity to make the transition. If we were to sit passively and say that we are content with legislation and that you are then allowed to deal with this best you want – yes, I am afraid that we would never have seen the development that we are seeing now, where we are beginning to find the solutions. We also see how companies do not stick to the old. They do not say that they want to continue to be fossil-based, but on the contrary they say that they see that development is that they must become sustainable. Volvo, which is Sweden's largest car manufacturer, has said that you should completely switch to electric cars. It would not have been possible if the Swedish State had not also ensured that there was a market for electric cars and charging hybrids that makes it possible to take that step. We are now seeing how companies switch to fossil-free steel and reduce their emissions. This is a development that I welcome.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-93	Madam President, I would like Of course, I don't want to hamper the transition, but I'm worried that more and more businesses are being relocated. I am sure the Minister agrees that much more is needed today to follow up, review and proactively work to get companies to take responsibility, regardless of their size and organisation. Unfortunately, I think that most of all we do not want to go into the trouble with international structures and what it does with our responsibility on the climate issue. In this one cannot give a pipe answer. It is not enough to reply that support for projects results in reduced emissions when Preem simultaneously increases emissions in other parts of the world. A real responsibility must be demanded here by ensuring that the requirements extend throughout the business structure. Of course, there are a lot of companies that take their responsibilities and change, but there are also companies that should not benefit from these contributions when they create structures to carry on climate-damaging activities.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-97	Madam President, I would like If Lorena Delgado Varas has allowed herself to be misled into thinking that I would be happy just to provide support and then see the companies continue with their business as before, I have not been clear enough. Of course, this is not the ambition of the government. The support is intended to create the conditions for the transition that we see as absolutely necessary and which we also see as an enormous opportunity for new jobs for a new sustainable economy in Sweden. It is, of course, through these subsidies and through the clear direction that the government is taking when it comes to actually having zero emissions in Sweden that we now see a huge wave of investments sweeping all over our country. In northern Sweden, in particular, there are now 100,000 new jobs due to a number of fossil-free steel projects, electric car battery plants, biorefineries and electric car manufacturers. On point after point, we see how we are building up the new sustainability of the economy, and that is precisely because of the government's commitment. We're showing that we're serious. We are able to gather broad support in Parliament around a zero emission target in just 24 years. But we are also an enabling force. We also enable entrepreneurs to make the necessary investments. Overall, this has a huge development potential that I am very proud of. Then we really work on making demands at the other end too. I can guarantee you that. For example, we have now decided that no companies exporting from Sweden should be able to obtain export credits for fossil activities. If you choose to stick to old principles and remain in fossil society and fossil technologies, you cannot count on state support for it. In this context, it is also important to recall that we have a great responsibility to phase out fossil subsidies. It is something the government has also devoted itself to with great vigour. This causes the economy to continue in old ruts all the time to deteriorate. For example, we have abolished the reduction for diesel in mining industry activities, which means that there is now an electrification wave also in the mining industry in Sweden. We have abolished the reduction in heating fuels in industry and agriculture, forestry and aquaculture, which means moving, for example, from old oil boilers to, for example, pellet boilers in greenhouse and agricultural activities. We have increased the tax on fossil fuels in combined heat and power plants, which has meant that we have finally been able to close the last coal power plants in Sweden. The Moderates fought back and wanted us not to take that step, but I'm glad we took it. As a result, we have also significantly reduced emissions from energy production in Sweden. We have made adjustments with regard to the preferential value of passenger cars, which has also caused a great deal of criticism from those who want tax subsidies to buy cars. We think it is better that you pay for it on your own while we have a control to buy the very best cars in the environment. Sweden is also at the forefront there. We are well in place 3 in the world when it comes to the sale of electric and charging hybrid cars. It is a very fast transition that is taking place there too. We have also introduced a tax on waste incineration that steers towards a more circular economy. We have introduced a tax on flying so that even the aircraft will pay for its climate impact. On point after point, we are increasing the pressure on those who today have a strong fossil-dependent business to switch to renewables. But an important piece of the puzzle that needs to be included is to support the sustainable, what is part of the future's solutions. There I am a little concerned that Lorena Delgado Varas seems to insist that you have to have a perfect business from the start in order to be able to get support. I do not quite understand this. The aid is intended for conversion. They are, of course, in order to move from being an emitter that contributes to climate problems to becoming part of the solution. Through these support we now see how the new development solutions come into place. I'm very proud of that.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-108	Madam President, I would like I think the Minister has misunderstood me. I do not mean that companies should be perfect before they can apply for the various climate grants. On the other hand, I would like to see companies at least taking responsibility for not expanding climate-hazardous activities, i.e. not working here to develop the company forward while opening up new oil refineries in other parts of the world. The examples raised by the Minister are national. Actually, we find the major anti-climate activities outside our borders. I certainly do not mean that the changes need to happen in one day. But the climate footprint should definitely not deteriorate in another direction. I'm afraid we'll miss it if we've got pipe spray. That is what prompted the question, because we have given several million to Preem at the same time as they are opening up new oil activities. Finally, I wonder whether the Minister has had talks with Preem about the million-dollar subsidies when it was discovered in the media that they were simultaneously opening oil operations in Côte d'Ivoire.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-111	Madam President, I would like Fortunately, not so government work, that I have a big bag of money that I then hand out to companies after having discussed with them. We are putting forward a budget and setting the framework, and we are giving the authorities the task of allocating the appropriations with clear objectives. No one can doubt the clear purpose. The clear aim is to reduce emissions and reduce climate impacts. It is also the effect that it has. Now we see a development where for the first time we can solve some of the most difficult problems when it comes to achieving a sustainable fossil-free society. We know that heavy industries have long been regarded as almost impossible to change. Because of the government's very strong drive to make demands, but also the government's support, we are now beginning to see the solutions. It's amazing. We also see that Sweden is first in this development. We see that many other countries are watching Sweden with envy. Delegations come here to see how we find those solutions. I think it would not have been possible if we had first called for a fossil-free operation. It is precisely by showing that the technologies come that we provide the conditions for companies to take the step over to become fossil-free. If we can succeed with this in Sweden, we can also succeed internationally. Then we can ensure that we reach the objectives of the Paris Agreement. There I see that we in Sweden have our most important task in being a forerunner that shows that it is possible. I'm very happy and proud that's where we are right now. Ursula von der Leyen raised a project within the industry in her State of the European Union speech, and it was the Swedish project with steel without coal. This brings the eyes of the world to Sweden. There are many who want to follow in our footsteps. We can do a great deal of good not only by taking our climate responsibility here but also by helping the world solve its climate problems.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-119	Madam President, I would like Camilla Brodin has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to ensure in the near future that construction mountains are classified as a by-product of a circulation process for the ongoing metro construction. I would like to begin by saying that the use of residues, wherever they occur or how they are classified, is an important part of the transition to a circular economy. It is a transformation that has great potential to reduce the use of resources and the number of transports and thus climate and environmental impacts. Furthermore, I and the government are well aware of the situation regarding construction mountains and the implications for the development of the metro and other infrastructure that the legislation entails. This is an important reason why the government has taken several initiatives to create better conditions for the management of, among other things, construction mountains. Among other things, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been tasked with carrying out a broad review of the handling of excavations and other natural materials such as construction mountains. The assignment includes analysing whether resource use can be made more efficient, whether there are costs that are not environmentally justified and whether there is an environmental impact that can be avoided. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will also investigate how to do this in other countries. On this basis, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will propose measures to achieve improved and cost-effective handling of the excavations. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also been given the task of assessing whether it might be appropriate to develop national criteria for when waste is no longer waste, i.e. what is required for something that is waste to no longer be considered as waste. In the memorandum on waste management, which has recently been consulted, the Ministry of the Environment has proposed regulatory changes to prevent waste from being mismanaged and that the costs are passed on to the municipality or the individual. The rules are also clarified, which makes it easier for regulators. It is also important for serious operators to be able to carry out their activities effectively. Therefore, exemptions from notification and permit requirements have been proposed for when waste that excavated t s, such as construction mountain, is used again in connection with the same site. The purpose of the waste concept and related legislation is to regulate the management of what someone intends to dispose of so that the environment and human health can be protected. What is waste is regulated in the Waste Directive, and we cannot apply a different definition in Sweden. It is up to the courts, and not the government, to determine whether waste is involved on the basis of the circumstances prevailing in each individual case. Camilla Brodin has also asked me how I intend to deal with costs that may arise in connection with the extension of the metro in the light of the current reclassification of construction mountains. D an evolving practice on the classification of construction mountains is the interpretation of EU law by the courts. The government cannot compensate individual parties for increased costs arising from court practices. Finally, the government has therefore taken a number of measures to improve and streamline the management of, among other things, construction mountains. The assignments received by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are comprehensive and require time and careful consideration. It remains to be seen how important the result of the assignments will be for construction mountains. But I am convinced that on this basis we can take further steps in our work towards a circular economy.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-128	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Per Bolund for the answer he has given to my interpellation on construction mountain. We can quickly tick off some very important points where I think I know that we are fairly in agreement and do not waste time on the m. V i is in favour of the extension of the metro in Stockholm. We embrace the circular economy as a good opportunity to reduce the climate load. We are loyal to Sweden's commitment that EU directives lay the foundations for our legislation. Nor do we want a society in which politicians rule courts. Here there are no chafings between Christian Democrats and environmentalists. Then why have I interpelled? For some years now, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has chosen to reinterpret the Waste Directive with the meaning that construction mountains cannot be classified as a by-product in a production process and should be considered waste. What is seen at first sight as just an administrative technicality has a dramatic impact on the reality of the conditions for, for example, expanding the metro in Stockholm. One estimate shows that the project can be increased by more than SEK 20 billion as a consequence of the fact that the rock is subject to waste tax. You have to pay a landfill charge, and for practical reasons you have to go to long journeys. In addition to the fact that the reason for carbon dioxide emissions corresponding to Swedish domestic aviation during a year, there will also be major economic costs. Can't the environment cost anything? Of course it gets. But then we shall also get something for that money, namely a better environment. We're not getting that here. On the contrary, we risk weakening our country's opportunities for a circular economy through the interpretation that the Environmental Protection Agency has made with regard to the Waste Directive. We receive several signals from the business community saying that they want to contribute to a sustainable society. I believe that we basically have very serious actors who mean what they say. They do not live in a vacuum, but realize that instead they must act with stewardship as a guiding principle. At the same time, I am a little concerned when I receive signals from the business community that it has become more difficult to be circular and that the interpretation of laws and directives is putting a stop to it. When we look at how the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has for some years chosen to pursue these issues, I can't get away from the idea that we here see a legal water planing. There is no convincing legal basis for classifying construction mountains as waste in the way the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has done in recent years. The Swedish courts will reasonably land in their judgments on the basis of guidelines based on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's interpretation of the Waste Directive. But we are now seeing more and more the unreasonable effects it actually has on the environment, on the circular economy and on the cost development of the metro. It is good that the government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to look at other countries. I am convinced that we will learn a great deal from it. One claim from me is that Finland can give us valuable experiences. I think that Germany and the Netherlands are also a few examples from which we can learn. What is interesting is how other EU countries, which also have to comply with the Waste Directive, succeed better than we do with the current interpretation of the directive by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Let me be clear: we have no problem with the waste directive on this point. Furthermore, the change directive that came a few years ago was an improvement that stems from a good ambition to facilitate the opportunities for a circular economy. But when you get lost even though you have a map, you can't just throw away the map, but then you have to be better at reading and interpreting it.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-138	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Camilla Brodin for a very important issue which also involves the government. It is not every day that we give this type of mission to an authority, but it is because we take this issue seriously. We also have large investments that need to be made in our country, and that is why we should make them possible in every way and not put obstacles in the way. At the same time, as Camilla Brodin also says in her speech, we have common EU legislation laying the foundations for what we can and cannot do, as does all other EU countries. We cannot ignore that; that is the basis on which we must stand. The Waste Directive has been revised quite recently. There was no reason to make any major changes in it, so it will not change in the near future. However, as I have said, we have commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to look at the possibilities for movement and the extent to which one actually has to make a different assessment. This work should also look at how the issue is handled in other countries. Should it be that other countries have found other ways than Sweden to deal with, for example, rock masses, this is an important lesson. If something works within the framework of EU law, Sweden could do likewise. The ambition we absolutely share. We should have waste legislation that is really useful in protecting the environment and human health. It is also important to point out that this is not self-evident. We have seen a lot of waste scandals in Sweden in recent years that we must also take very seriously. In general, therefore, I do not consider it appropriate to make a great deal of relief in waste legislation. On the contrary, we need to tighten up waste legislation on important points in order to ensure that gangster practices cannot occur in such an important industry. This can have a very clear impact on the environment and also on the health of people living around them, which is not acceptable. Having said that, I believe and hope that with the rather solid mission we have given to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, we will find solutions to this challenge and that we will then also be able to enable circular use of, for example, excavation and rock masses that are not contaminated. It is important to point out that if there is a lot of pollution, they must also be dealt with in an environmentally and healthly acceptable way. On the other hand, for example, in the case of underground explosions, we are talking about clean materials. If we could find a way to ensure that that material does not have to be handled as waste, it would be absolutely excellent in my eyes. Nevertheless, the basis is that we have a waste directive to relate to, and that is also what Swedish courts interpret. It is important to point out that authorities cannot change practices on their own. The County Administrative Board's decisions can also be appealed, and it is in the appeal that a court case is then established. If it is to be changed, it must be done with a solid basis and with the necessary knowledge, and that is exactly what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is developing.
i-Vq5HMj9uXdBmUw3668K2Xv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Bolund, for your answer! I said in my last post that I am happy that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will look at other countries' experiences. I am also pleased that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to drill on the issue of construction mountains based on a broad review. I am also a little critical of the fact that the situation has been allowed to go so far that we have had these obvious problems. That shouldn't have happened. It is good that the government is on the ball, but I would like you to have a little more speed in your work. Unfortunately, I can't just be happy. I get really worried when I get to take part of the first part of the investigation, which is now out for a referral. It is the first of four parts, and it is about defining key concepts. It turns out that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has already set its foot in its proposal and on the question of whether the construction mountain can be considered a by-product according to the Environmental Code has decided that they cannot. I'm amazed at this. I very much hope that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will listen to the consultation bodies when they try once again to highlight the relevant facts. I am happy to give Minister for the Environment Bolund the tip to take note of the Stockholm region's referrals, which were submitted on 25 May this year, and I would like to give another reading tip for the summer hammock, namely the county administrative board's referral on memorandum Ordering and finding out about the waste, which was sent to the Ministry of the Environment on 5 May. It is a wise and well-documented document where you can read how the County Administrative Board now realizes how wrong the whole process has landed. They send in very important and readable points of view, which I hope Per Bolund will take the impression of. We do not have ministerial rule in this country, and neither do we. But at the end of the day the state is still governed by the government, and there is at the bottom a political will behind all decisions. The government exercises its leadership over the authorities through regulatory letters, investigation directives and, not least, an ongoing government dialogue. I am therefore counting on Per Bolund not to miss a chance to ensure from his position that the waste directive lands in Sweden in a way that meets the objective right away and that we can soon see a correction to the legal misinterpretation that has been allowed to put a wet blanket over the construction mountain for quite a long time.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-149	Madam President, I would like Surely it is in order to recall why we have these proposals on the table and can therefore have this discussion. We would not have had an answer to the question of order and the waste if the government had not presented the proposals and sent them for a referral. Then we get this valuable process started and we also get comments. Nor would we have had proposals from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency if the government had not given a commission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to produce proposals that allow us to have these important discussions and also bring in input and ideas from the business community, regions and others who have experience. Nor have we laid down the mandates and sent out the proposals by chance, but we do so because we have an ambition to get a waste legislation that really works and delivers in the best possible way. Here we have not rested on the male; on the contrary, we have acted when we see that there are challenges and problems, for example in the form of not having handled waste in a safe manner in Sweden. Unfortunately, there have been too many situations where irresponsible companies have made a lot of money and then not managed waste in a way that is reasonable, but in a way that results in damage to both the environment and human health. We cannot accept that, and therefore we are also proposing clear changes. We also send a commission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to evaluate waste legislation precisely to see if it is possible to find ways to make reliefs for large infrastructure projects, for example. So the government has taken the ball, and we have also passed it on to our authorities. However, we must respect the fact that this is how Sweden is governed. We do not rule by a minister sitting on his chamber and coming up with a brilliant idea and implementing it, but we do so by allowing our authorities and experts to produce the necessary evidence, which is so solid that it lasts over time. I do not think that anyone would benefit from a rapid change that would then not prove to be legally viable but would be reviewed once again in court. Then we'd end up in the same problem one more time. In fact, when we make changes, we need to know what we are doing, and we need to know that we are on our feet to make those changes. That is the government's ambition: that we should be able to make changes, but that it should also be a solid process of solutions that are sustainable over time.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer this time too! In my ears, it sounds as if we are reasonably agreed that something must be done to reverse developments so that they are moving in the right direction. I'd still like to send you the tip on the County Administrative Board's answer. There has been a change of opinion in this regard. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has in its oblivion allowed a practice that does not benefit Sweden at all. There are no legal cases in the EU that substantiate the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's interpretation of the Directive – but vice versa. The legal cases in Sweden where it has been sentenced to the disadvantage of the construction mountain are based on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's doubtful interpretation of the directive. Nor has any Swedish court allowed the matter to be examined by the EU Court of Justice, but if Region Stockholm allows the EU Court of Justice to examine the matter, Sweden would find it difficult to get its interpretation through. Here the government needs to put the issue under the loop and be effective so that we do not put ourselves in a far too expensive situation where we do not take advantage of the opportunities to cope with climate change because of too long transport or because sticks are put in the wheels so that entrepreneurs cannot work as efficiently as possible. No one wants the subway expansion to last longer than it does. With those tips, I hope that we will soon see a change of practice in Sweden and that we are going in the right direction.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-161	Madam President, I would like Using construction mountain as a replacement for other materials is an important part of the work to achieve a circular economy. The Government's objectives are clearly set out in the action plan and strategy that we have adopted. The government has also taken several initiatives that have a bearing on how construction mountains can be managed. I have been aware that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, among other things, is carrying out a broad review of how excavations can be handled. It is also important to point out that the fact that construction mountains are classified as waste does not mean a ban on using them for, for example, road construction. On the contrary, one of the aims of waste legislation at EU level is to enable waste to be recovered without risk to the environment and human health. What is waste or by-product is determined by EU law. What is waste also needs to be determined on a case-by-case basis and assessed by the authority that examines the case on each occasion. The government cannot, in either the individual case or by general decisions, decide what is waste, but it is precisely in the examination that it is made. Having said that, we have given several important tasks aimed at improving the functioning of waste legislation from a number of points of view, that is to say, closing the door to rogue actors who are trying to make quick money by dealing with waste in a dangerous way for people and the environment. It should not occur in our country. Furthermore, we will see how we can take important steps to truly achieve the objective of a circular economy. This also applies to construction mountains.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-166	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me if I will act to remedy the environmental and health threats in Arica, to work for Sweden to recover the toxic waste so that it can be disposed of in a much safer way than in Chile and to explore the possibility of assisting Chile with support to remedy the existing health and environmental damage in Arica as a result of mining waste. The Government has received a letter from eight UN Special Rapporteurs describing the human rights situation in Arica in Chile and Boliden Mineral AB's handling of wetwork sludge between 1984 and 1985. The Special Rapporteurs have urged the Government to take immediate action to stop alleged ongoing human rights abuses and to ensure that responsibilities are imposed on persons who are alleged to have caused the abuse. The government has responded to the letter. In its reply, the government has pointed out that it is concerned about the situation in Arica, Chile, as described by the UN Special Rapporteurs. The situation is deeply regrettable. Sweden has a driving and ambitious line in the international chemical and waste work, as well as in developing the work with sustainable entrepreneurship, not least to increase knowledge of risks but also to develop innovative solutions that contribute to less environmental impact. All people should be able to live in safe, healthy and sustainable conditions. The Government notes in its reply that at the time of the export of the wetwork sludge, export licence requirements were not imposed by the Swedish authorities because metal-containing materials similar to the wetwork sludge were not classified as hazardous waste. In addition, no specific OECD recommendations on exports of non-hazardous waste were made at the time of export. Therefore, the operation has no reason to take the measures related to the wetwork sludge required in the letter. It has been a long time since it happened, and the issue has been subject to judicial review in both Sweden and Chile. The government has also indicated in its response to the special rapporteurs that there has been a development of the regulatory system since the 1980s. Since 2006, the export of hazardous waste outside the OECD is prohibited within the EU. The Government conducts an active dialogue and cooperates on environmental issues with Chile. Sweden, among other things, signed a bilateral agreement with Chile on sustainable mining industry in 2016 and updated another on sustainable business. Sweden's ambassador to Chile visited Arica in 2019 and met representatives of the affected residents. Negotiations are also ongoing between the EU and Chile on a modernised Association Agreement, which will include a specific sustainability chapter with wordings on the environment, human rights, social conditions and gender equality. The agreement will further strengthen the EU's and Sweden's dialogue with Chile on these issues. In its response to the UN Special Rapporteurs, the Government has highlighted the active work being done to implement the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. It attaches great importance to the work on entrepreneurship and human rights and to an active dialogue with companies, trade unions, civil society and business organisations. In December 2019, the Government's platform for international sustainable entrepreneurship was launched, which expresses a clear expectation of Swedish companies. Regardless of where in the world companies operate, they will act sustainably and responsibly by working for human rights, gender equality, good working conditions, environment, climate and anti-corruption.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-173	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I appreciate the fact that Minister Bolund lists the work being done today on sustainable entrepreneurship. That is positive, but not enough. Actually, the interpellation is not about what the government demands or the dialogue the government has with the companies today, but the interpellation is about repair and restoration around an environmental injustice that Boliden, with the good memory of the Swedish state, still performed and still today is highly relevant in everyday life for the inhabitants of Arica. The Minister said that when the exports were carried out there were no specific recommendations from the OECD regarding the export of non-hazardous waste. But the truth is that Sweden did not meet the international requirements that applied when Boliden shipped the waste from Sweden to Chile. Here Minister Bolund and the government duck from Sweden's responsibility through some untenable arguments. At the time of the exit of the waste, the OECD had decided in February 1984 on guidelines for shipments of hazardous waste. These also applied to Sweden. According to the OECD Decision, hazardous waste was defined as follows: any waste which is considered hazardous or legally defined as hazardous in the country in which it is located because of the potential risk to humans or the environment likely to occur in the event of an accident, incorrect transport or disposal. The OECD decision therefore applies to any waste that was considered hazardous at the time, not only what is legally defined as hazardous. This is a legal misinterpretation of the OECD decision. I wonder whether the Minister really believes that waste containing more than 17% arsenic and also high levels of lead, mercury, cadmium and other toxic substances would not have been considered dangerous in the mid-1980s. We have had knowledge of the toxicity of these substances for more than a century. This is precisely because the waste was as dangerous as Boliden and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency had at the time consulted on other sustainable solutions for disposal. However, in 1984 Boliden chose to inform the government that it was going to send the waste to Chile instead. The Swedish state did nothing to stop or control the exit and nothing to follow up, contrary to international obligations and with disastrous consequences for human health in Arica.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-181	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I think what we have seen in Arica is extremely unfortunate. I am glad that this is something we would never accept today. At the same time, at any given time, authorities comply with the legislation in force at the time. The wetwork sludge exported was not considered hazardous waste at that time, and therefore the authorities had to act in this way. Then you can think what you want about that legislation. There I can say that the Green Party was formed about the same time that this export took place, and we were formed precisely to be able to respond to this type of event. Unfortunately, it is not only in Chile that we have seen examples of people being harmed by the management of various forms of waste, in this case wetwork sludge. In other cases it is electrical waste, plastic waste or the like. My position and that of the government is that this should never be acceptable without protecting people and the environment from this kind of development. That is also why we have made such a huge effort to change the legislation so that something like this can never happen again. At the same time, it is important to point out that it is far from only in Chile that we have had problems with dangerous substances that poison people and the environment. Even in Sweden we have thousands of places around us that sit on old toxic sins, where the toxins risk leaking out and affecting the environment and human health. A very well-known example in Sweden is BT Kemi in Teckomatorp, where it was also people who suffered from health effects due to poor handling. There the clean-up has continued until now to deal with such problems. This shows well that the great flaw has been that we have not had sufficient legal protection for the environment and health. We have had every reason to fight hard to change that, and I am very pleased that we have managed to change it so that we now have a completely different piece of legislation in place. Today, a similar approach would not be allowed. As I said, we have a lot of own clean-up work to do. It is also something that we spend a lot of resources on, and that makes us develop technologies and solutions. There, of course, we are prepared to assist Chile should such assistance be requested. We have not received a formal request from Chile for efforts from the Swedish side. However, I would like to make it clear that we are in no way putting obstacles in the way of Mr Boliden if Mr Boliden would like to make efforts to deal with this situation. I am the first to regret that people both in Chile and in Sweden have suffered from the destruction of the environment and health due to actions in history. We have every responsibility to ensure that it cannot be repeated.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-190	Madam President, I would like I just want to make it clear with us that this is a Swedish company and that the Swedish authorities made a misinterpretation, also when Chile was a dictatorship. I can't help but be angry and upset. People are still exposed to the waste, so this is by no means a closed chapter. The first children who grew up with this now see their own children affected by it. For example, I read about Patricia Aguirre and her family, who moved to one of the contaminated districts in 1995. Her youngest was then a year old and had hip problems. He often played on the front of the house, which was covered with dust. Sometimes he could even swallow dust, as children do when playing in sand, for example. The whole family was tested in 2000, and they had clearly elevated levels of arsenic and lead. Today, Patricia's son has lost his sight and has a disability. Her oldest daughter has had a miscarriage. People in Arica describe life as a pilgrimage between hospitals and health centers. In his final line in Svenska Dagbladet yesterday, 17 June, Marco Orellana, one of the UN rapporteurs, writes about the objection raised earlier by the Minister, that Swedish law did not regard waste with such high concentrations of arsenic, mercury, lead and cadmium as dangerous, is at best simply wrong, at worst deliberately misleading. We must remember that these substances are among the most toxic things known to man. Arsenic, for example, has been the type example of poison for centuries. The disastrous health and environmental effects of the local community in Arica remove any doubt that Boliden's waste was hazardous. ..................................................... Can the Minister and the government seriously say that Boliden's toxic waste was not considered dangerous in the 1980s? Is this really the government's line? Does the government choose to slip away from its responsibilities and duck behind a legally unsustainable argument? Such a line weakens Sweden's international environmental credibility. It is easy to talk about Sweden being driven and ambitious in climate issues. I'm the first one to appreciate that. But we must also take care of what has happened in history. We need to move from words to actions and show that this means something. Is this the picture that the people of Arica and the surrounding world should have of Sweden, now for the preparation of the 50th anniversary of the Stockholm Conference and the environmental declaration that Sweden adopted in 1972? I think the Minister must understand, however, that the attention that this issue could get during the UN Conference is very negative.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-198	Madam President, I would like That's a terrible description of a very tragic case that Lorena Delgado Varas is giving. It is impossible not to be touched by the n. I can say that much of my mission, the reason I went into politics, is to ensure that people and the environment cannot be harmed in such a serious way. That, too, is what I devote my entire working hours to. Then there are many ways to harm people and the environment. Toxic substances are one. Climate change is another that risks damaging people and the environment very seriously in the future. That is exactly where we need to put our strength and our work in order to prevent it from happening. It is also important, I think, to stick to principles when we try to combat events that harm people and the environment. One principle that I think is important to stick to is that it is the polluter who should pay, that is, it is the one that gives rise to substances that are at risk of harming people and the environment that should also bear the cost. This is the principle that we are working on in Sweden when we clean up dangerous areas. It can sometimes be frustrating work. After all, it is not always obvious who is financially responsible – in the end, it is often courts that are allowed to decide which operator has caused risks or damage to the environment. Still, it is an important principle to stick to. I don't think Lorena Delgado Varas wants to see a situation where the Swedish state always steps in when companies, whether Swedish or international, have committed various kinds of errors or caused environmental or health damage. It is an important principle that it is the one who has caused the problems that will ultimately bear the costs. From the government's side, the line is very clear: Companies that have activities in other countries have an enormous responsibility, wherever they are. Not only can you dump your problems on those countries or on other actors, but you have a responsibility to act in a sustainable way in terms of the environment, but also in terms of social rights, for example. This is something that we have been a strong driver for in relation to Swedish companies that have activities internationally and something that it is important to stick to. It is very regrettable, I think, and also the government, that the issue of clean-up has not been resolved. As I said earlier, the government will not stand in the way if Boliden wants to act in this case. This issue has also been tried in both Sweden and Chile, and the government cannot review decisions taken by a court. This is not how the Swedish political and legal system works. As before, however, the government is open to dialogue and cooperation on environmental issues with Chile and with other countries. We have also made that clear. Both the Government and the Chilean Embassy have been following the Boliden case for many years, and we have been able to see that this issue would have been dealt with within the framework of the judicial system. The State cannot rule in this case – not in other cases either – on the legal considerations underlying the judgments that have come. At the same time, this case also shows the importance of Sweden and Chile, for that matter, and also exporting companies working actively with sustainable entrepreneurship and not least increasing knowledge about risks and the need to do what is called materiality analyses, or due diligence, when transferring waste or substances between countries. We are also engaged in an active dialogue and working with Chile on environmental issues. Among other things, in 2016 we developed a bilateral agreement with Chile on sustainable mining and updated an agreement on sustainable business. The government is thus pursuing an active dialogue with Chile on these issues.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-210	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, the UN has asked Sweden to act on this issue. The government now has a chance to become an international example by working with Boliden and Chile to find a solution that is sustainable for the people of Arica. The waste should be shipped back to Sweden for disposal in Boliden's modern plant at Rönnskärsverken. In addition to Arica, Boliden also needs to assume its historical responsibility for the dam disaster in Andalusia, Spain, where 7 million cubic metres of toxic mass poured out over arable land and nature conservation areas. Most recently two weeks ago, Spanish environmental organisations asked why Boliden still did not pay the compensation in full. Responsibility should be taken, just as it has been chosen to do with the waste from Forsmark. I'm being pushed over the differences in handling. Regarding the barrels from Forsmark, the Minister chose to speak as follows: This is an example of how incredibly serious it can be when you do not take care of hazardous waste in a good way. Historical waste has been clearly handled irresponsibly here. That is why we are giving the agency the task of carrying out a thorough analysis of the historical waste during this year and proposing how we can manage it, both financially and with responsibility for the environment. I can only conclude that the responsibility for ensuring that neither man nor the environment is harmed by historical waste only extends to Sweden's borders.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-215	Madam President, I would like There I do not share the conclusion of Lorena Delgado Vara. On the contrary, we believe that the principle is the same: the polluter should pay, regardless of where this type of damage occurs. This is also exactly the process we have started with radiation safety waste. Who is responsible for it being handled in this way, and who is responsible for bearing the cost of it? However, we can clearly agree that the legislation in place in the 1970s and 1980s on environment and health was not sufficient. It was far too flawed. This is also something that, not least, my party, the Green Party, has devoted an enormous amount of effort to change – to actually make sure that we have legislation in place that can stop various activities that risk destroying human health or the environment, for that matter. There, too, as a country, we have been a strong driver in the work to tighten up the Basel Convention, for example, to prevent events like this happening again. This is an incredibly important task that we have in the future. However, this does not mean that the Swedish government or Swedish taxpayers can take responsibility in each individual case where Swedish companies have been involved. It would also be a bad principle to establish. Our view is that it is the one who accounts for a pollution that should also bear the cost and the work of dealing with it. I would like to emphasise once again that Sweden is a forerunner in the environmentally sustainable management of dangerous substances, but also in mining and waste management in general. Today, we have also really changed our activities and, not least, changed the legislation in a way that is extremely important. That is not to say that the work is done. We will continue to need to tighten laws and rules so that we ensure that all companies, wherever in the world they operate, assume their full responsibilities.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-220	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me what I am doing to ensure that Sweden supports Belarus' democratic opposition, what initiatives I take to ensure that Sweden takes action to force the dictator Lukasjenko to resign, what I think the Embassy of Sweden in Minsk has been involved in the negotiations and agreements of the Export Credit Board with two state energy companies in Belarus, and what I think about the state-led aircraft creation and what I think the external response should be. With regard to Sweden's support for the democracy movement in Belarus, we have supported the belarus people's desire for democratic development in the country through our aid for many years. We have active democracy assistance with a focus on strengthening civil society and free and independent media. Since the elections in August 2020, Sweden has further intensified its support. The EU has also done so, something that Sweden has actively pushed to get through, along with several other Member States. I can assure Håkan Svenneling that we are constantly looking at new opportunities to support civil society and contribute to democratic development in Belarus, not least through aid. The large-scale electoral fraud that occurred during the presidential elections in August last year and the regime's brutal abuse are unacceptable. We need to use all available means, including within the framework of the EU, the OSSE, the UN and the Council of Europe, to influence developments in the right direction and to work for Belarus to respect its commitments to human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Sweden and the EU do not recognise the results of the presidential elections, which were neither free nor fair. We believe that the people of Belarus have the same obvious right as everyone else to elect their leaders in free, democratic elections. What the political transition should be like is a matter for the Belarussian people to take a stand on. As regards the withdrawal of tenders by the Export Credit Board, the Embassy of Sweden in Minsk has not participated in any negotiations. The Embassy has also not been involved in the negotiation of any other agreement concerning the transaction. The Swedish ambassador took part in a study visit to the Swedish export company in 2019 and attended the same year at the signature of two pre-negotiated contracts between the Swedish export company and the belarusian energy companies. The ambassador has acted within the framework of an ambassador's mission to promote Sweden's economic interests abroad. This was done in 2019, long before the protests and violence against protesters in connection with the fraudulent presidential elections began. As regards the forced landing of the civil passenger plane in Minsk, Sweden and the EU and the rest of the world have greatly emptied Belarus of its actions. D a Belarus ambassador was called up to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs on 25 May to receive our protests against the event. The EU has reacted quickly and decisively, and the European Council has agreed to adopt further sanctions against Belarus as soon as possible within the existing framework of sanctions and to adopt additional economic sanctions. The Heads of State or Government also agreed to ban belarusian airlines from flying in EU airspace and to land and start from EU airports while calling on European airlines to avoid flights across Belarus.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-226	Madam President, I would like The dictator Lukasjenko has now been in power in Belarus for 26 years. Since he took office through democratic elections, all the elections have been rigged. After the elections on August 9, last year, patience ran over for the Belarussian people. Then there have been great and extensive popular, peaceful protests. Those who have protested have been peaceful and friendly and have only claimed their right to real democracy. Yet they have been faced with widespread police and military violence, while the intelligence service, still known as the KGB, has systematically arrested those who organised the protests. Nothing, however, has stopped the hard-tested Belarican people. Their struggle continues. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Basically, there is great agreement in Swedish politics that the dictator Lukasjenko must resign and that Belarus must become a democracy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself has on several occasions been very clear about Sweden's policy in this regard. But at the same time, Madam President, it must be noted that the actions of the Foreign Minister are indicative of a reversal in government policy. As late as November 2019, Foreign Minister Ann Linde Belarus visited as the first Foreign Minister of 27 years. She was then also the first Foreign Minister to meet the dictator Lukasjenko. The visit took place at a very inappropriate time. Just a week before, the regime had held a rigged parliamentary elections to which the OSCE observers noted was not right. The fact that Ann Linde chose an inappropriate time for her visit was also something that dictator Lukasjenko noted. On the president's website, the head of state was said to be the fact that the meeting is held right after the parliamentary elections in Belarus. ..................................................... During the spring, the government has been shaken by the so-called EKN affair. It has made it clear that the government has not been consistent in its policy towards Belarus, but also that for the Foreign Minister there is a clear difference between what took place before and after the falsified presidential elections on 9 August last year, despite the fact that Belarus has been a dictatorship for more than two decades. The Authority's Export Credit Board, EKN, offered two government energy companies in Belarus loan guarantees of close to 2 billion, while protestors were brutally suppressed by the Belarus regime. The government's energy company also struck down protesting employees and fired a number of them. During the negotiations of these agreements, the Embassy of Sweden participated in Minsk on at least three occasions when Siemens and the energy companies were to sign contracts. It was not the case that they were involved in the negotiations themselves, but they were present as a means of giving important legitimacy to the negotiations. Now, the Export Credit Board has decided to withdraw from these credit guarantee agreements, a decision that should have come much sooner than was the case in a deal that should never have started. The Foreign Minister has long denied involvement in this affair, despite the fact that the affair is mentioned in Lukasjenko communication on his website after the meeting. This means that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been part of Sweden's double game in his relations with Belarus. According to Lukasjenko description of the meeting with Ann Linde, it is definitely the case that Swedish companies and their ability to do business have been an issue on the agenda. A number of Swedish companies are mentioned, and they specifically mention the gas turbines that they want to be sold from Sweden. This makes me wonder, Madam President, why the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not believe that Belarus was a dictatorship before 9 August last year and why the Swedish ambassador in Belarus had a trade promotion mission.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-235	Madam President, I would like I understand that Håkan Svenneling does not come from a party that is used to working hard to get a country that is a dictatorship to turn to democracies. That is the whole history of the Left Party. But if you are a responsible Foreign Minister and a responsible government, you know that you must do everything to get a dictatorship to try to become more democratic and turn to democratic countries instead of turning to Russia, as in the case of Belarus. That's what Håkan Svenneling calls a reversal, Madam Speaker. It's just because he doesn't understand how these things happen. When I visited Belarus, it was a very appropriate time. It was because one of my first decisions as Foreign Minister was to affirm something that the belarus people, the belarus opposition and belarusians in Sweden wanted: that we should change our name from the misleading Belarus to Belarus. As a result, I and the Finnish Foreign Minister went there after there had been a controversial election, but not a election followed by repression, violence and torture in such a way as the August elections. I received extremely positive reactions from the opposition. I do not know how often Håkan Svenneling himself, Madam President, has visited and spoken with the opposition over the years. I do it all the time. They said: Thank you so much for coming here – that you come here allows us to express our views in a better way! I could also pass it on to journalists at press conferences. So it is not a reversal, and it was a very appropriate visit at a very appropriate time. With regard to the issue of EKN, of course, my visit to Belarus had a broad agenda, with a strong focus on the human rights situation. I did not comment on the Siemens business for any counterparty during my visit. Unfortunately, you can't decide what people you visit write. I've been through that time and time again. There's nothing strange about that. I must also object to the fact that the involvement of the embassy in some way would be problematic. Let me take this opportunity to express my full support and confidence in Ambassador Christina Johannesson and her professional actions as the government representative in Belarus. I have been meeting Christina Johannesson for decades in professional contexts. There are few who have worked so much to strengthen NGOs, democratic opposition and journalists like Christina Johannesson. She is engaged in active and long-term work to promote respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It is not an easy task. Ambassador Johannesson has, during his time in Minsk, demonstrated great courage, excellent judgment and initiative when she stood up for our policy in a difficult environment, including the right of the Belarian people and civil society to operate.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-240	Madam President, I would like This is an ugly rhetoric we hear from the Foreign Minister. She goes so far as to suggest that I would not be a democrat or want democracy. I think that points out and shows how bitter the government that governs this country is right now. I think I know the reasons why you're so bitter. But I do not think this is worthy of a foreign minister. I must, however, accept the ugly rhetoric and focus on the subject. I think it is a good thing that the Foreign Minister changed his name from Belarus to Belarus in Sweden's official contacts with the country and in our communication about the country. However, I think that you can change your name without going to the Minsk of dictatorship. I think it is great that the Foreign Minister speaks to the opposition and is in close contact with the opposition. We need this to show that only the opposition can be legitimate in the eyes of the outside world. Only the opposition can hold free, democratic and fair elections in which one can appoint one's own leaders. From now on, we must never compromise those principles and in any way give Lukasjenko legitimacy. I hope that the Foreign Minister will continue to act. I have great confidence that she will. To me, Belarus is a long-standing dictatorship. I had a meeting with a young belarusian activist of my own age when I was a newly elected municipal politician in the early 2000s. He told of how he had been beaten and how his friends had been arrested. Yet they struggled. This is how the Minsk regime has been working for a long time. There have been periods of great oppression against opponents, with torture and persecution, which is disgusting. Then there have been periods of lightening up and giving only financial penalties or not as hard a blow to the opposition. But this has always been a game with the EU, Sweden and the rest of the world; it has then been easier and given a breathing space, so that one could mobilize to strike down on the opposition even harder the next day. This time we are not going to go on this tactic from the dictator Lukasjenko. This time, we will keep up with the sanctions we have against the regime for as long as necessary. I think we still see a shift in Sweden's foreign policy towards Belarus in the summer of 2020. Before that, the Ambassador of Minsk had a trade promotion mission. She doesn't today. I have full confidence in the ambassador in Minsk. I think she's doing an excellent job. The problem is who's the client. In this case, it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who gives the ambassador a trade promotion mission that she should not have. What can be done about this? One thing that could be done, now that there is talk of increased sanctions against the Belarus regime, is to show that these two energy companies, which were about to be traded with, can come up on the EU sanctions list. It would be a way of clearly pointing out that state companies that contribute to the regime's grip and contribute to funding the regime are being punished. I hope that the European Union will be able to take a decision on this next week. The story with EKN is a sad story that should never have happened. It is so clear that the business that EKN gave a loan guarantee is neither environmentally sustainable nor socially sustainable. It is not even economically sustainable, because e-mails sent to me by EKN show that Belarus was even rated down to the lowest level of economic sustainability and that the risks of the project were huge. Yet EKN entered this business. Although EKN is an independent authority, it should have been possible to stop this business much earlier than it did.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-248	Madam President, I would like It is good that there is a consensus in the Swedish Parliament to support civil society in Belarus. Swedish aid focuses on this and focuses on three sectors: democracy and human rights, market economy development and the environment and climate. At the same time, it is very difficult to support civil society right now. We want to support the repression of NGOs, and we need to constantly look at their situation. We must protect the health and safety of the pro-democracy; we must do so first. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs conducts a dialogue with human rights and civil society organisations to see how Sweden in this situation can creatively ensure that they receive support and how we can help develop civil society in the country. It is also positive that, following pressure from Sweden and several other countries, for example, the EU has made a promise to Belarus of over 30 billion if the country moves in a democratic direction. As far as civil society is concerned, specific support has already been paid out. We maintain contacts with the opposition and support their legitimate demands for human rights, the release of all prisoners and free and fair elections. I have welcomed several opposition leaders to Stockholm, including Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, Olga Kovalkova, Veronica Tsepkalo and Valerij Tsepkalo. We will continue to be clear that those who have been forced into exile, as several of the people I have just mentioned, will be allowed to return. We are also trying to support education for belarusian students. Founded in Minsk in 1992, European Humanities University moved to Vilnius in 2004. The idea is that belarusian students should be able to go there and then be an important contribution to the belarusian civil society. We have contributed to the Emergency Fund that Humanities University has set up to fund education for students who have suffered from the regime's repression because they have a political commitment. The development in Belarus is very negative. There are no differences between my views and those of Håkan Svenneling. Their international action is becoming increasingly productive, but we must do what we can to bring about a change in democratic direction.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-256	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Foreign Minister is highlighting civil society in this clear way, because I think it is incredibly important to discuss how we can best support the belarusian people. How can we counter the isolation that is in danger of affecting Belarussian citizens? It worries me a lot. These are difficult trade-offs, because we must act against airlines and the belarusian repression of aircraft, while at the same time enabling belarusians who want to leave Belarus to come to the EU and Sweden. As Ann Linde is concerned with, it is about building a democratic civil society of exiles outside Belarus so that we can support the independent media and the formation of important organisations and facilitate democratisation and organisation of the opposition. When Belarus one day becomes a democracy, what the exiles bring back to Belarus can then become the foundation of a democratic Belarus. It is therefore important that Sweden, the EU and the whole world are long-term in their support for the belarus opposition. Madam President, I would like It is also clear that as soon as we in the debate go back in time and look at what has happened, I and the Foreign Minister are deeply divided in our description of what was right and what was wrong. But when we look forward, the unity is greater. On Monday, the Foreign Minister will meet his colleagues in the EU, and then they will discuss Belarus and step forward. The Left Party does not disagree on Sweden's position in this case, but we wholeheartedly support the Government's work forward. The only way to move forward is to have a lively and healthy debate about how Sweden can best support the belarusian people.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-262	Madam President, I would like Let me begin with the disparate view of what has happened. Belarus has always had a policy of turning to the EU and the West, on the one hand, and Russia, on the other. It would have been totally counterproductive not to try to use it to have more democracy and more opportunity for civil society, opposition and the media to operate. That is why it was right to impose severe sanctions following the elections in the mid-2000s and to remove them when the Belarus regime agreed to release almost all political prisoners. They would be introduced again if things went the wrong way, and it is now. That is why we are now extending the sanctions regime that exists with economic sanctions. They are not yet in place, because unanimity is needed to bring about a new sanction regime, which is not always easy to achieve. In all the events of the current crisis and in the past, we have made efforts to draw attention to the situation in Belarus, to condemn violence and repression, to protect human rights, to call for genuine dialogue and to find a peaceful solution to the conflict and crisis. We have done it bilaterally, and we have done it with the OSSE, with the EU, with the UN and with the Council of Europe. We have always been aiming for Belarus to become a democracy, for the people to choose their leaders, for there to be no political prisoners and for there to be freedom and human rights.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-265	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether the government intends to criticise UNFPA's latest SWOP report. Kakabaveh has also asked whether the government intends to condition funding to UNFPA and UN Women and how the government will ensure women's and girls' rights when the organisations adopt new strategic plans this autumn. Prostitution and trafficking in human beings for sexual purposes is a ruthless and cynical exploitation of other people. It is a serious violation of the individual's human dignity and right to control his life and body. It is also a major obstacle to social equality, equality and the enjoyment of human rights and the achievement of the objectives of Agenda 2030. The work against prostitution and human trafficking is therefore a very high priority for the government. The exploitation of women, girls, LGBTI people, boys and men in prostitution can never be accepted. The government discourages the use of concepts such as sex workers and sex work. It is the buyer, like the so-called sex industry, who is to blame, and language must not help normalize prostitution. The Swedish position is crystal clear and is presented clearly and consistently. We are engaged in an active dialogue, together with like-minded people, to get other countries and organisations along our lines. Sweden's feminist foreign policy means that the foreign administration works consistently to drive and promote women's and girls' full enjoyment of all human rights, not least their sexual and reproductive health and rights, both politically and normatively as well as in development cooperation. The Swedish development cooperation will create the conditions for people to improve their living conditions from a poverty and rights perspective. UNFPA and UN Women are important partners in the international work for SRHR and gender equality. Conditioning and withdrawing core support to organizations such as UNFPA and UN Women would risk hitting the broader work of gender equality, health and SRHR, including important and often lifesaving activities. As one of the largest donors to both UNFPA and UN Women, it is of the highest priority for Sweden to take advantage of the rights perspective when the organisations' new strategic plans are designed and adopted. Sweden will continue to stand up for multilateral agreements on girls' and women's rights and be a strong voice for SRHR and a close and strategic partner of UNFPA and UN Women, while, together with like-minded people, pushing for changes in norms and attitudes in order to counteract the exploitation of people through prostitution and human trafficking. Sweden is, and will continue to be, a pioneer country for the rights of all girls and women, both here at home and through our international work.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. We fully agree on where we stand and should stand on these issues with regard to women's and girls' rights. I do not think there is any dividing line here, but what role does Sweden have in the world? Several large women's organisations in Sweden, both in 2020 and a few weeks ago, when we sent a letter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have brought to the attention of the government that we are very concerned about the latest report that UNFPA has written. It advocates both buying sex – called sex work – as surrogate motherhood and child marriage. Be careful to criticize countries that legislate against child marriage. Conservative forces in the UN therefore sit and criticize Sweden and other countries that have come a long way in the work on gender equality. This is serious. It is the same approach and strategy as the organisations in the United Nations. Gender apartheid regimes such as Saudi Arabia and Iran are chosen, and it is clear that they come with a conservative, outdated and patriarchal view of women in their written reports and strategies. My question is: why is it so difficult for the government and the Foreign Minister to make conditions for gender equality money and money for women's sexual and reproductive health? Why is it so difficult to do so when it comes to child marriage and the exploitation of women's rights and bodies? We in Sweden have work in progress, but we have not got that far. Last morning I heard that women from other countries, migrant workers here in our own country, are being exploited by sex buyers. This means that we must never back down on our basic ideas or the UN's own basic core conventions, which hold to the equal value of all people and the rights of girls and women. But now we're backing down, and that makes us very worried. My question is therefore: why can these questions not be made conditional? Sweden would never provide assistance to organisations within the UN or others working against abortion, for example. We'd never back down there. Why should we do that when it comes to sex trafficking? Why should we not be able to make conditions regarding child and forced marriages? Why should we not be able to mark against Saudi Arabia, Iran and the like? These are the people who have entered the various organisations of the United Nations and who today simply set different limits on how a democratic country like Sweden and other countries should act. This concerns us. My question is therefore: why is it so difficult to make conditions, the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Should the question of abortion, for example, be reversed? When it comes to trafficking in women, you have to get free rein to do whatever you want.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-282	Madam President, I would like I fully share Amineh Kakabaveh's concern about this, but we have different views on how to deal with it. Let me explain. Feminist foreign policy has made it possible to raise the profile of human rights and gender equality, push for work and build alliances. It is about girls and women being able to get their human rights. This also applies to sexual and reproductive health and rights, i.e. SRHR. This is what we are trying to push for, despite strong opposition. It is important to note that the mobilisation we work for and our joint work produce results. Despite increased resistance and polarisation, the SRHR group of like-minded people has grown. This year's Women's Commission defended the agreed language on SRHR. And during this year's Population Commission, we managed to adopt a resolution with languages on the SRHR, after fine interaction between the African group, the EU and the United States. This is the first time this has happened since 2016. Swedish development cooperation is based on the poverty and rights perspective and that people should be able to get better living conditions. In many countries, girls, women, men and boys who are in prostitution are the most vulnerable. This applies both economically and socially. The health status of this group is often much worse than that of the rest of the population, they are subjected to violence and they get easier HIV. In order for Swedish aid to reach the groups that are exposed to this, we are dependent on partners in the countries, both within the UN system, national authorities and civil society. If we were to make the support conditional or withdraw the core support for organisations such as UNFPA and UN Women, it would risk hitting these individuals and the broader work for gender equality, health and SRHR. We need to work to change the positions of countries and UN organisations rather than subjecting and withdrawing aid. That's how the United States acts, and I don't want us to act like that. There they had the attitude of not giving any support whatsoever to organizations working for abortion or contraception. During Trumps's years, and for that matter Bush's year, the United States did just as Amineh Kakabaveh now proposes. The aid was conditional, and it was withdrawn. Who were affected? Yes, women and girls, not least those who are in prostitution and those who do not have their sexual and reproductive health. That is why this is not an effective or a good way. On the contrary, it should continue to support the organisations but enter into alliances to change attitudes and activities from both countries and organisations.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-289	Madam President, I would like It is going a little far to compare the demands we have with those of conservative Drumpan followers, where it was about abortion and SRHR issues. We're talking about child marriage and forced marriage, and we're talking about sex trafficking. It becomes counterproductive if, on the one hand, money is given and, on the other hand, it is not conditional on it. It's possible to make them conditional. I have not said that you should stop funds, but I have said that you should make them conditional. It's possible. There are lots of democratic countries and lots of democratic voices. If so, you can influence them. If you are a majority, no conservative forces can win in the UN's own body, which has agreed since the Beijing Conference in 1995 to safeguard women's and girls' rights in the world. Therefore, I wonder what Sweden is doing, in addition to creating alliances? I am concerned about the creation of alliances with Saudi Arabia, Iran and others. I want us to create alliances with democratic movements and with democratic countries to influence these conservative countries and movements. Now we also see that Iran, the Isis State, will continue. Today there are elections in Iran. Then we will know what will happen with regard to women's rights. Then I wonder how Sweden wants to stop genital mutilation, child marriage, sex trafficking and surrogate motherhood in addition to giving money. I really want to know. I also believe that a great many people are committed and listen to this debate in order to know what position the government and the Foreign Minister are taking. We have not said to stop the money, we have said that it should be conditional. Just because Trump has been conservative about abortions and a religious fanatic is also a responsibility. We have not only a political but also a moral responsibility towards taxpayers. We are the biggest donor country and influence, which I am proud of. But I am not proud to see that millions of girls and women are the subject of child marriage, genital mutilation, forced marriage, sex trafficking and child labour and are part of what is called sex work. In fact, it is ashamed of the UNFPA report, which contains these wordings. It is found in the latest State of World Population r eport, which advocates sex work, surrogate motherhood and child marriage. It is a relativisation of these issues. We in Sweden, with a feminist government, must make it clear to these organisations and to the UN that we do not tolerate this. It's actually very easy to say that. There is no one who would say: Wow, what says Sweden. It would only benefit women and promote the gender equality work that these women and organisations do but do not get a say in their home countries. You simply have to get a voice from a country like Sweden. That is what we want, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-294	Madam President, I would like Prostitution and trafficking in human beings for sexual purposes is one of the worst forms of men's violence against women, and it has negative consequences for gender equality and society at large. Men are the dominant buyers when it comes to prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes. The ones being exploited and sold are women and girls, LGBTI people, men or boys. Most of them, however, are women and unfortunately also children. But Sweden has been pioneering in the fight against sex trafficking and for a modern view of relations between women and men. As the first country in the world, we banned the purchase of sexual services in 1999. We are doing exactly what Amineh Kakabaverh is asking for. We are an example, and other countries follow. In this case, it is Norway, Iceland, Ireland, Northern Ireland, Canada, Israel and France that we notice has a huge interest. What was first called the Swedish model then became the Nordic model, and now it is increasingly called the gender equality model. This is a development that we very much welcome. As you know, the Swedish legislation was not developed in a vacuum, but developed for decades. It originates from the women's movement and with an effort to increase gender equality throughout society. It must be noted that changing standards takes time. The starting point for our international work is long-term, and that is that we should move towards an international gender equality policy, a human rights development perspective and get a job against human trafficking and prostitution. We are working on continuing to inform and argue in favour of the Swedish sex purchase legislation, in particular the reasons for not criminalising the seller – the one being used in prostitution and in human trafficking for sexual purposes – but the buyer, that is, the one who exploits. It is important to convey a poverty perspective and a focus on rights, both in terms of the importance of providing support to those in prostitution and for health services and livelihoods. The government has also been very clear that in all fora, including in forums such as the UN, we must counteract and question the use of concepts such as sex workers and sex work. We have no other vision than Amineh Kakabaveh there. A language can help normalize prostitution. In view of this, the Government has also appointed a special ambassador against human trafficking as an important instrument in international cooperation against trafficking. But UN work is fundamental in our global SRHR and gender equality work, and Sweden is not only one of the strongest voices but also one of the largest donors to the global SRHR work, including the UN. Both UNFPA and UN Women are key partners in Sweden's international work on these issues. We're very clear there. We work very targeted when it comes to the Swedish view of prostitution and the importance of combating demand.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-301	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for this. I know that we do not have different views on these issues, on Sweden's voice and on Sweden's ambition to really change people's lives. But the problem is, this is where we're safe. We do not know how this work goes in other UN Member States. That is the problem, that they affect us but that we do not affect them. Even the UN's own core conventions are obscured by conservatism and by the views that exist. The Secretary of State talked a lot about sex trafficking. But what about child marriage? Countries criticise us for legislating against child marriage. This is terrible. This simply means advocating sex with children and rape of children. You can't interpret that in any other way. My question is: what would the government and the Foreign Minister have done if it had been about abortion issues? Shouldn't we have made our aid conditional? Wouldn't it have been hard to believe that we don't want to contribute to this? Why do we simply back down as soon as it comes to oppression of honour and other things and want to be accommodating? I want Sweden's voice to be stronger. I want Sweden to provide more support, but I will make it conditional. I don't want apartheid regimes to affect us. Our vote will be valid in all UN bodies regarding the rights of women, children and girls. We're going to push for genital mutilation and child marriage.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-305	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate that Amineh Kakabaveh is raising these issues, but I must protest strongly when the honourable Member claims that they affect us but that we do not affect them, Madam President. It's all wrong – it's all wrong! It's actually going way too far, I think. When it comes to honour-related violence and repression, it is a violation of human rights, and those who are subjected to it are experiencing a great deal of suffering. We can never accept that individuals are exposed to this type of violence, and the government has done – and continues to do – a great deal of work in this area. Sweden is very clear: In the international work we stand up to honour-related violence, against child marriage and against genital mutilation all the time. Sweden, for example, is as a first roadshower country engaged in the work of the Global Partnership against Violence Against Children, which was launched in July 2016. The initiative is linked to Agenda 2030, and we are particularly involved in the partnership, which is about achieving the interim objective of eliminating all forms of violence against children. Furthermore, we are, of course, working against violence against women and domestic violence in the so-called Istanbul Convention, which is now exposed from many quarters. Sweden's feminist foreign policy means that the foreign administration works consistently to drive and promote women's and girls' full enjoyment of human rights, not least the SRHR. This is done both politically and when it comes to the Swedish view of prostitution with its connection to human trafficking and the importance of combating demand. I am particularly pleased with the diplomatic agreement we now have with France to promote this work together.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-309	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked Minister Mikael Damberg if the government has an action plan for how effective rescue operations at sea can extinguish fires in electric vehicles and if the action plan in that case also includes rescue operations for people on board ships with burning electric vehicles. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. There are comprehensive provisions in law, regulation and administrative regulation on how to prevent or extinguish a fire on board a ship. The regulatory framework aims to ensure the safety of life at sea. The provisions on fire-fighting on board ships are based to a very large extent on international rules. There is now a revision of these rules, and Sweden is actively pushing ahead in the negotiations for improved protection in the event of fires on board ships.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. But that was not really much of a response. There was a rather general wording: a lot of Sweden is actively pushing ahead in the negotiations for improved protection in the event of fires on board ships. ..................................................... Fires are one of the worst things you can get into, especially if you are in a closed space and have difficulty getting out of there. A fire can also lead to death without the person who dies having been struck by the fire itself; then it is the flue gases that are a problem. We are one of the leading countries in electrifying the vehicle fleet. Electric cars are registered on a fairly large scale, which means that we are getting more and more electric vehicles on the road. From experience we also know that the implementation of service and maintenance varies from individual to individual among vehicle owners, and this means that some vehicles get the service they should have while others do not get it. Some vehicles are driven quite carefully, others are not. Experience shows that electric cars can catch fire several weeks after damage to the battery pack. There was a traffic accident where the car was seized, and it started to burn three weeks after the accident — three weeks! So there is really no control over what is happening in the battery, and that is because there is a lot of energy stored on a small surface. I am of the opinion that it is better to occur than to occur. There are increasing numbers of electric cars coming out, and there are increasing numbers of electric cars on board ships. Ships are naturally enclosed spaces – otherwise they do not float, as is generally known – and this makes it very difficult to extinguish a fire that occurs, for example, on car tyres. Now electric cars have a lower proportion of fires than ordinary cars, but it doesn't matter when the extinguishing of an electric car itself is much more difficult. There is evidence that a fire can be cooled down in an electric car and believed that the situation is under control – and then the fire flares up again with full force. That is what makes it very difficult to extinguish a fire on board a ship. We can take one of the ferries that goes over to Finland as an example. There may be up to a few thousand individuals on board. What do you do if there is a fire in an electric car on the car deck and you have so many people in a closed space, without the opportunity to get out of there, unless we have developed regulations and systems to extinguish such fires? When an electric car is on a car deck, it can be next to a truck. The truck does not need to have a load consisting of flammable substances; it may as well contain sawn timber or something like that. When the fire spreads over there, you get a fire course that's pretty dramatic. I think it is a bit of a pity to answer as briefly as the government does. They say you're running this, but what? You could say that, but is there a plan for how to handle this? It should not have to go so far that there is an accident of death before there is a solution to how fires on board ships should be handled.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-321	Madam President, I would like I was not going to make this debate unnecessarily long, but I was just going to try to get my perspective as a member of the Committee on Defence into perspective. We have, for example, the Coast Guard in our portfolio. We had the Director-General of Coast Guard Therese Mattsson visiting the committee a few months ago. We were told that the resources allocated to the Authority by the Government are not sufficient to enable it to maintain the maritime civil protection that it is obliged to have. That's it. Manning is difficult and it does not have enough ships or resources to carry out its rescue mission at sea. In addition to this, the Director-General had a direct question: can you put out an electric car that is starting to burn on a ferry? She replied: No, we can't. This is quite remarkable, because, as my colleague has just stated, it is extremely difficult to put out an electric car on land too – but not only that, it is also toxic. When I watched the match between Turkey and Wales the other day there was a VMA alarm that I think a lot of Swedes saw. It was about an electric car burning in Eskilstuna – a single car. It was not a large tyre bearing, a chemical factory, or an industrial building, but an electric car. Accommodation in the area was invited to go indoors and close windows, doors and valves due to toxic smoke in the area. It came from a single electric car. Then imagine this on a ferry, Madam President! That is precisely what this is all about. It may now be possible to say that we are trying to change the regulatory framework, that we are living under international maritime law and that we must resolve this together. By 2020, however, Sweden had 1.1 per cent of the fleet of vehicles that were pure electric cars. If you count the charging hybrids, it was 3.6 percent. At the same time, one third of new car sales were of rechargeable cars. This means that the share of electric cars in our fleet will increase rapidly. This also means that we will have more and more electric cars on our ferries. The question is not whether there will be an accident at sea, but when. Have we got legislation in place? Have we developed methods so that we can put out fires in electric cars at sea? This is not just a matter for the Coast Guard, Madam President. It is also not just a question of the extinguishing capacity of rescue services at sea; it is also a matter for ship crews. They are normally trained in extinguishing fires on ships and normally withstand a fire in a conventional diesel or petrol car on a ferry, but they cannot extinguish a fire in an electric car. This is where the problem comes. Electric car fires are not common fires. Toxic smoke is produced, and it can become directly dangerous. We do not want a new Scandinavian Star or a new Estonia, especially because the Coast Guard does not have the capacity to extinguish or move people. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is simply: what is the government doing to put pressure not only on the international but also on the automotive industry and battery manufacturers? They have a responsibility here. No other part of the international automotive industry could put on the market a product which cannot be extinguished, which is dangerous to people and which is in danger of causing such damage. What are you doing?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-330	Madam President, I would like These are interesting issues, and I appreciate the commitment to safety at sea. There Sweden is the world leader. As was said before, we in Sweden are leading in terms of the number of rechargeable vehicles; we have the most rechargeable vehicles in the EU. I think the technological development we have is positive. It reduces the carbon footprint and means that we can change the transport fleet in a good way. Here the automotive industry makes fantastic efforts with the transformation that is taking place, not least here in Sweden. We are also a world leader in maritime safety. We are known to have been successful for a long time, not least in the framework of the IMO, the International Maritime Organization. It is our experience of Scandinavian Star and Estonia, for example, that makes us in Sweden have a special competence in the field of maritime safety. I find it unfortunate and worrying that leading representatives in Parliament are spreading a great deal of anxiety and fear of electric cars, as if they could never be extinguished. That's not really true. However, other methods of extinguishing electric vehicles are, of course, being used. To create fear in people so that they do not dare to ride ferries just because an electric car comes on board, I do not think it is quite appropriate for Members of Parliament to engage in. There are clear provisions regarding fire-fighting on board that the commander has to deal with. There are clear international rules for this. There are even specific rules for the carriage of batteries on board, not least in the context of dangerous goods classification. The Swedish Transport Agency has issued a number of regulations and general guidelines concerning cargo securing and transport of dangerous goods. Of course, a major responsibility lies with the master of the ship to ensure that it is safe before the ship leaves port and during the voyage. There is also a well-functioning international cooperation between Sweden and other countries to ensure that rescue capacity is in place. There is constant work on updating and renewing these regulations. In Sweden, as I believe the member of the Committee on Defence is aware, we have commissioned MSB to look at extinguishing methods. Due to the digitisation and electrification of the transport fleet, such work is also ongoing internationally. Here, of course, it is the case that you continue to look at both ship constructions and instructions for evacuation and rescue. There is continuous work going on, and I feel confident about the responsibility that takes place within the framework of the existing authorities. There is no specific plan for individual types of vehicles. On the other hand, there are specific advice and instructions for the type of extinguishing operations to be carried out. That's how it works. That was also how it worked at one time when ethanol cars came, when petrol - powered cars came and when diesel - powered cars came. A lot of people thought it was worrying that cars with such flammable substances would be released on board ships – how would this be handled? We actually have a pretty good ability – not only in Sweden but also in the world – to build safe systems. But it is important that attention be paid to this, and I appreciate the interpellation. I think it is good that there is a social debate about this so that everyone is aware of it. It is, of course, important that our authorities continue to work both nationally and internationally to ensure that there are adequate rescue rules and efforts and that the officers have the capacity to comply with them.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-340	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Surely it must be a little unique for the country's Minister for Infrastructure to tell Members of Parliament not to engage in maritime safety? That's amazing. We know that electric cars burn to a lesser extent than cars powered by conventional fuels, but we also know that electric car fires are more difficult to extinguish. Fires on board ships are dramatic. How the fire occurs is not really so interesting – the question is whether we have the ability to extinguish the fire, so that human life is not wasted. Scandinavian Star was a clear example of how dramatic it will be. 159 people lost their lives on that ship. You're trapped in a trap if there's a fire. When the Director-General of the Coast Guard says that there are no means of extinguishing fires on ships at sea and that there is no capacity, surely the Minister for Infrastructure must realise that we need to spend some resources on this? When I was a defense instructor, we often had fire drills in buses. Then we used smoke grenades inside the bus – harmless smoke grenades, of course – to practice evacuation and get people out of the vehicle on time. The rule of thumb was that it takes about two minutes before the smoke has affected people to such an extent that they become unconscious and remain lying inside the vehicle. Two minutes it takes to evacuate a bus, and it can accommodate 50 people. A ship may have up to 2,000 passengers. Then you realize the extent of the efforts needed to save people in the event of a fire. Since we are one of the leading countries when it comes to the registration of electric cars, we must also be quick and take the initiative in dealing with a fire that occurs on board a ship. We know the gases are toxic. Just as my colleague mentioned, a VMA message came out in Eskilstuna warning of a fire in a car that was standing outside – people would go into their houses and close the windows. But what if you are on a boat and the same situation arises? Where do you go? You're gonna jump right into the ocean, aren't you? The answer to the interpellation was on the shortest team. I would have liked a clearer answer to what the government is doing. Since we are an outstanding country in terms of electrification, we must also be a prominent country in terms of rescue operations in order to be able to deal with a situation where there is a fire, for example on a ship. However, it might as well be in a residential building, in a parking garage or something similar – in a closed space. We must be able to deal with this. There must be a strategy, a thought and an idea of how we solve that situation. I do not like the Council of State reprimanding us Members of Parliament who engage us in people's safety. I reserve the right to continue to do so.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-351	Madam President, I would like Here, then, we have a responsible minister for a government and from a political party who has repeatedly failed in the crises that the country has faced who reprimand Members of this Parliament for wanting to increase the safety of people who transport themselves by sea. It's amazing. What the Minister is saying about the transport of batteries and dangerous goods does not apply to electric cars. This is about passenger cars rolling into the same car deck and that the rescue services at sea – Coast Guard – cannot extinguish fires in. This is a fact, Madam President. Stupendous was the word. Of course we should stand here and scream. It is clear that we should highlight the merits of the automotive industry and that alternative fuels have been developed that reduce CO2 emissions, but in the same way as the automotive and battery industries can be pushed forward by stricter rules, we must be able to do so in this case. Methods must be developed to extinguish these batteries when they burn and extinguish the electric cars. We need to develop methods that are not toxic. Madam President, I shall reprimand myself. There are methods to extinguish some of these fires. But they are almost more toxic than the battery itself so you must not use them, to use the words of the Director-General of the Coast Guard. This is a problem. Methods and regulations must be developed, and safety must be taken into account and pressure put on the automotive and battery industries. This is no contradiction with the fact that we are going to increase the number and proportion of environmentally friendly vehicles in the Swedish fleet. But we need to have greater security, because I do not think that in five six years' time the Government will want this debate to roll in the news broadcasts in Swedish media in connection with a major accident.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-356	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind Members that I commended the commitment to safety. I appreciate your commitment to safety at sea, which is important. What I criticised was the spread of the image that electric vehicles are dangerous, that an electric vehicle on a ferry can lead to huge risks for passengers and that this means that people do not dare to ride ferries anymore. It is important to remember that there are working rules on safety at sea. However, as with all new technologies, MSB and other authorities have the task of ensuring that they take on new knowledge of how fires are extinguished. There is, of course, every opportunity to ask questions to the responsible authority, MSB, to others who work with the rescue services or to the responsible minister for these questions and formulate them so that they land with the responsible minister. What I am responsible for is safety at sea, and that means that there are clear rules and procedures regarding the responsibility of the commander. We are in Sweden the world leader when it comes to maritime safety regulations, including based on our experiences, as I said earlier, by the Estonia or for that matter Scandinavian Star. The rules have worked and serve us well. But it will always be important for us, with new technologies and new vehicles, to update the regulatory framework and for it to be done internationally within the EU. It is particularly important that the masters, shipping companies and designers have knowledge of new ships. It is interesting now, because we are in a position where we will continue to invest even more in shipping. There I hope that we will have more both freight and passenger traffic with shipping, because it is climate-smart. Part of this – I lead the Electrification Commission's work – is to extend electrification, not only of the vehicles that board the ferry but also of the ferries as such. It is quite obvious that both shipping companies and others in that situation know the conditions for extinguishing fires and that they are using the existing maritime safety regulations. I would also like to remind you that it is not the government that produces action plans for individual vehicles. We give instructions to our authorities to maintain the necessary knowledge and develop the necessary plans for proper rescue and extinguishing operations. We also conduct international dialogue through our authorities and take responsibility for upgrading the regulatory framework so that the chain of responsibility is clarified not least to the masters and shipping companies. That's how it's supposed to be, and this responsibility takes on the government. I would like to say once again that I appreciate the commitment, because it is important that Sweden maintains the tradition of a high level of ambition in the field of maritime safety. If I am going to be personal here, and you have to allow yourself to be in the Chamber sometimes, I took office in the Parliament in 1994, right after the Estonia disaster. I have carried with me that people who would have become members of the Swedish parliament did not because of the Estonia disaster. For me, maritime safety issues have been incredibly important. It is about new technology but also about ordinary accidents in the event of bad weather. Therefore, the follow-up to the Estonia disaster has been incredibly important to ensure good constructions, good instructions and good rescue capacity within Swedish but also international shipping.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. This is certainly extremely important – if you then fly, ride a boat, car or train is completely uninteresting. Safety must always be the leading star at work. I am a great supporter of the Haveri Commission, which deals with investigations into air accidents. As a result of the work done in connection with each accident, there is no safer means of transport than air transport. There is very little damage and death in air traffic, given the amount of people being transported. And you have to have that guiding principle, no matter what type of means of transport you work with. When there is a problem with extinguishing fires in electric vehicles, one must be a little on the tip of the toes and see which extinguishing methods are to be used and how a fire on board a ship at sea is to be extinguished. We hear the Director-General say they don't have the resources to do it. It's a warning signal, at least in my world. It is not that an electric vehicle is more dangerous than any other vehicle. It's the fire in the battery that's dangerous. According to MSB, there are gases such as hydrogen chloride, hydrogen cyanide and hydrogen fluoride in lithium-ion batteries. It's gases that are fatal at worst. That's what we're dealing with. You have to have a plan to solve this when a fire occurs in a closed space. The answer I got to the interpellation was not clear enough, so there is reason to return. With this, I would like to wish the Council and also the President and the Bureau a pleasant summer in general.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-376	Madam President, I would like I can return the wish and thank Thomas Morell for many debates during this parliamentary year. There will certainly be more debates in the future. I'm looking forward to that. Once again, we have a great deal of expertise in Sweden when it comes to maritime safety, and that is something that we should be proud of and that Swedish expertise is spreading in the country. Speaking of the purely general issues that concern us who work with transport and infrastructure issues, an important part is also to increase the flagging, so that it is Swedish-built and preferably Swedish-powered ships that are present on our waters and to ensure that we have good competence on board. But, and it is important to point out to those who follow this debate, the safety rules also apply to other staff and other commanders. There is an international regulatory framework within the IMO in Sweden. At the moment, we are also campaigning to get into the IMO's board of directors to make even more of a mark in international security work.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-380	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund and Viktor Wärnick have asked me if I will work to ensure that in the forthcoming planning decision the government prioritises the expansion of double tracks along the East Coastal Line. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. When this government took office, the situation was such that for many years it had been underinvested in Swedish transport infrastructure. In 2018, the Government presented a national plan where resources increased significantly. In addition, significant efforts are now being made on the transport infrastructure in northern Sweden. The current infrastructure plan includes the extension of two phases of the East Coast Line to double tracks: Sundsvall– Dingersjö and Gävle– Kringlan. For Gävle – Kringlan, the Government's determination in 2018 of the national plan meant an increased effort compared to the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. The January agreement provides, inter alia, for the completion of the decided national infrastructure plan. In addition, it is stated that there will be further development of the railway in northern Sweden and that the planning for building the Norrbotnia railway as a whole will be intensified. The government has recently submitted a bill to Parliament with the largest financial framework ever for transport infrastructure. In total, the framework amounts to SEK 876 billion for the period 2022 – 2033. We do this to both take care of and develop existing infrastructure but also to carry out new investments throughout the country. A well-functioning transport system is an important part of the construction of society. The government will continue to invest in building Sweden strong and sustainable with infrastructure investments, not least in northern Sweden. It is much needed to meet the great needs of many years of lost investment and maintenance.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-383	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Government for coming here today and debating this important issue! I have not been in Parliament for a long time as the Minister for Infrastructure. He came in 1994, I was taught today, and I came in 2018. I remember that my very first speech was about a double track extension between Gävle, Sundsvall and Härnösand and the importance of it. Since then I have written motions and written questions, participated in seminars and written debate articles. I have also been involved in municipal affairs. If you want to be a little mean, you can think about whether I'm one-track in my mission. No, I'm not. But this is an issue that is so important to me that I think it is well worth repeating, and I will also do so until a decision is made to extend the railways into a double track. Of course, this is not about this being good for me personally. That's not why I get involved, even if I earn travel time when I go to Stockholm. But it's good for people, the environment and businesses. Madam President, I would like Over 1,000 billion will be invested in northern Sweden in the next few years. You can talk about reindustrialization. Thousands of new jobs will be created, and northern Sweden will be attractive to live in. There will be a need for large-scale migration in order to cope with this, and it will be necessary to have a railway capacity capable of responding to the needs of the new companies. In my hometown of Sundsvall, for example, a company called Renewcell is established. It's incredibly exciting. They recycle textiles – an area that there is much to do internationally. They will have a great need to transport both by rail and by sea. One thing that is common to all these investments in northern Sweden is that they have sustainability as a guiding principle. It is about making steel without carbon, batteries for electrification of the vehicle fleet and so on. Both people and goods will have to move, in particular the goods or goods. What will be produced in northern Sweden is largely done for the export market, and here the railways play a crucial role. But as it is today, there is neither capacity nor even rail in place to solve this and meet the challenges. Here I think a double track between Gävle, Sundsvall and Härnösand is a key. Madam President, I would like I said a key. The second key is Norrbotniabanan, which I wholeheartedly support and which I believe the government also supports, at least rhetorically. We'll see when it's ready. This is what I do not quite understand, Madam President. The government mentions in different contexts – the Minister for Infrastructure did so most recently in his response – that the entire Norrbotnia Line should be completed. But I have never actually heard the Minister for Infrastructure say that the whole new East Coast Line will be completed. If we just build Norrbotniabanan the problem will remain and only move when the trains come from let's say Luleå down to Västeraspby north of Härnösand, because there takes a single track down to Gävle. Then the investment will not be fully exploited, and I think that would be a pity. My honest question to the Minister for Infrastructure is: What is the logic of an extension of the Norrbotnia Line when it is not said that the new East Coast Line should also be built? I expect – and would like to hear – an answer to that.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-395	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Infrastructure for his reply to Jörgen Berglund and my respective interpellation. The issue of double-track expansion of Ostkustenbanan is of great importance to everyone who lives and works in my county of Gävleborg. The whole of Hälsingland and Gästrikland would benefit greatly from increased capacity on the railways, and decisions are urgent. The rail track along the east coast is among the most trafficked single-track railways in the country, and it is in dire need of capacity expansion. The railway between Sundsvall and Stockholm provides Sweden with important goods and competent individuals who commute daily and are transported along the current route. This extension would not only lead to a considerable improvement in time for the traveller and commuter, but also the possibility of a large relief for traffic on the roads, where goods are being transported too much today instead. Madam President, I would like I believe that a shift is required in the view of Sweden, which is north of the Dalälven river. The counties north of this river are central for the whole of Sweden to function. It is about that the industries, the entrepreneurial forces, the natural resources and all the hardy people who have set the clock every morning to go to work are needed for the sake of Sweden as a whole. Or to put it more specifically: Without supplies and production coming from or taking place in other parts of the country than the big cities, most of it would stop. Transport from the northern counties to Stockholm and further out to the rest of Sweden and Europe must be a priority. An extension of the east coast track to a double-track railway is therefore central for the whole of Sweden to work. In view of the planning decision that the government has to make in just over a year's time, there is therefore a great expectation of prioritising a double-track east coaster course. Recent calculations made by Nya Ostkustenbanan, a company owned by Region Gävleborg and Region Västernorrland together with many of the municipalities concerned, show that the socio-economic benefits are good. The regional and municipality-owned company has used the Finnish Transport Administration's calculation models, but instead of dividing the route, it has been assumed that it should, as it should, be a coherent investment for the entire route. The reason why this is new is that the Swedish Transport Administration originally chose to divide the route into 17 sections. However, it has been moved in the right direction to five functional stages. But that is not enough; the east coast course needs to be seen as the whole it actually is. A double-track east coast course between Gävle, Söderhamn, Hudiksvall, Sundsvall and Härnösand would bring a social economic benefit of SEK 45 billion. Net, after deduction of construction costs, interest expenses and operating and maintenance costs, it is still SEK 13 billion. This emerges after careful calculations, which probably means a higher social benefit in reality. Madam President, I would like Profitability is good for the whole of Sweden by expanding Ostkustbanan. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure: will the government also want to see the whole East Coast Line as a coherent investment? And is it not a wise measure to give priority in future planning decisions to the extension of the East Coast Line to double tracks?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-404	Madam President, I would like Thanks to the interpellants! I very much appreciate the commitment, and I must say that I also like the argument. How wonderful to hear moderate MPs discuss and engage in talking about industrial policy! It doesn't happen often. I sat here in the Chamber when Fredrik Reinfeldt, as Prime Minister, said: The industry sector in Sweden is basically go. It was the words of the country's Prime Minister, who said that the industry is on dekiss and on its way away. We're betting on the service community! Instead, bed making was subsidised, and street services were introduced. I and our current Prime Minister, who was then IF Metall's Chairman, Stefan Löfven, worked intensively on what we then began to call a new industrialisation strategy. For Sweden, if we are to maintain our well-being, we must take advantage of the industrial capacities and knowledge we have, be it the automotive industry, the forest industry, the mining industry or the pharmaceutical industry. We now see the result with 1 000 – 1 500 billion in investments in northern Sweden. Hybrid, Green Steel and Northvolt – this is a successful investment in new industrialization in Sweden. This would not have been possible with a moderate government. Already at that time we suggested that we build the Norrbotnia Line in order to complete good freight transport along the Norrland coast. The first thing that was done then was to lift Norrbotniabanan out of the national plane and reduce the plan. I do not hesitate for a second in terms of the commitment of the members of the region, and I appreciate that. But the fact is that you can still see that Parliament is about to vote on money for infrastructure, and then you will vote for SEK 30 billion less on the development grant. There will be less money to invest in infrastructure. I note that the spokesperson of the Moderates on infrastructure issues is in the hall. Please be welcome to discuss these issues with her in the break. The consequence of the Moderates' own proposals is reduced resources. Because if it is not Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm, Ostkustbanan or Norrbotniabanan, what is going away? In the infrastructure bill we have proposed SEK 876 billion, almost SEK 900 billion, the biggest investment ever, not least in terms of new infrastructure. Big efforts are already being made today. I mentioned Dangersjö. I mentioned Gävle – Kringlan. I have no worries about thinking that it is very good if Sweden can get a functioning transport system with rail, whether it is four track Stockholm – Uppsala, via Gävle, via Sundsvall or via Norrbotniabanan. That is why we are carrying out the greatest railway effort in modern times. We do so after years of underinvestment, when other governments chose to down-priority investment on the railways. Therefore, it was an important signal when we in 2018 were able to take the shovel and start building the Norrbotnia Line. Therefore, it was an important signal when we increased the investment on Ostkustbanan. It is under Social Democraticly led governments that we ensure that we invest in Ostkustbanan, on Norrbotniabanan and, for that matter, also on Malmbanan. We have in the vote that the members of this interpellation debate are to take part in a situation where the government is proposing SEK 30 billion more for the extension of the rail system than the Moderates are doing in their corresponding proposal. The basic question back to the two interpellants, Madam President, can therefore be: where is that money going to be taken? If it is not on Ostkustbanan, what projects do you think should be deleted from the current national plan?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-414	Madam President, I would like I had thought that this would be a discussion with arguments as to why this is important. However, the Minister for Infrastructure is using his entire second speech to attack the former alliance government. It's a known trick, both from him and from other ministers. Then he wants answers to questions from us. Then I must remind the Government that it is the Government that answers questions before the Riksdag, not the other way round. Nevertheless, I would like to make two comments to Tomas Eneroth. First of all, it was under the alliance government, which he so badly wanted to talk about, that the decisions about Gävle– Kringlan and Sundsvall– Dingersjö actually came. Secondly, the answer to the question of the 30 billion is quite simple: we do not intend to extend high-speed trains in Sweden for hundreds of billions. I think it's the government that's going to answer where he's going to get those hundreds of billions from. Madam President, I would like I mentioned earlier the importance of having a double track in a national perspective linked to industrial investment. Let me now zoom in and look a little more locally and regionally at what effects a double track would have. This morning I took the train from Sundsvall to Stockholm. It took 3 hours and 35 minutes. I'll later go the same distance back, 3 hours and 35 minutes. It's not exactly something you want to do every day. I also note that 15 years ago the same distance took 3 hours. Travel time has thus increased, which must be seen as quite unique. At a time when we call on people and companies to think about sustainability, we want to choose the train over aircraft and car, and then travel times cannot increase. They must be reduced. Madam President, I would like To spend the day, you usually talk about a travel time of about 1 hour. If I get on the train in Sundsvall today, I can go to Hudiksvall, a distance of about 80 km, in 1 hour. With a double track I would make it all the way to Gävle, which is 21 mil south of Sundsvall. This would mean that people's and companies' access to work, studies and skills would multiply in our two counties, Västernorrland and Gävleborg. To Arlanda, for example, it would take 1 hour and 45 minutes from Sundsvall. I am not ashamed to say that Sundsvall would probably not need an airport, at least not today's size. Then Arlanda could also become Västernorrland regional airport that takes us out into the world. I think that would be very good. Madam President, I would like At a time when unemployment in Västernorrland and Gävleborg is high, higher than in Sweden on average, and companies are calling for skills, it is crucial that people can move around in large areas to find work. With a double track, there would be a labour market region formed by what is currently four, or even five. It would be a labour market region with over 500 000 people, by far the largest north of Uppsala. I should also remind you that this area is two thirds of Sweden's surface area. Madam President, I would like Sweden cannot actually afford not to build a double track Härnösand– Sundsvall– Gävle. Sweden, Swedish companies and the environment need a double track. The EU, Madam President, has understood the importance and pointed out the distance eligible for co-financing by up to 50%. Even Brussels thinks it is so important. When, Tomas Eneroth, is the government going to make a difference and reason in the same way as it does in the EU?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-421	Madam President, I would like There is complete agreement among Gävleborg municipalities that a double-track east coast course is absolutely necessary. That's what Moderates, Social Democrats and everyone else, the Minister's party friends and mine, councillors and regional councillors, majority and opposition, inland and coastal, the entire Gävleborg bench here in Parliament. So it is not a partisan question. I am not seeking conflict either, if that is what the Minister for Infrastructure thinks. This is ultimately about conditions to live, live and work north of Dalälven. It boils down to a matter of priorities in the national plan. It is therefore gratifying that comprehensive calculations in accordance with Trafikverket's methodology show that the net benefit of a double-track east coast course is positive. The stretch Gävle – Härnösand is today a problematic bottleneck for rail traffic. It therefore does not help to expand other rail lines in connection with Ostkustbanan if Ostkustbanan continues to be the weakest link with congestion on single-track rails. For example, this bottleneck prevents the full exploitation of the potential of Botniabanan and Norrbotniabanan, despite the expansion of these runways, which the Minister mentions. I believe that we need to build up Swedish railways, not fragment them. Madam President, I would like It is very gratifying that large investments in industries, for example, are now being made in the counties north of Dalälven, but in order to make full use of the growth-promoting efforts, improved infrastructure is needed that can bring the products to the market in the rest of Sweden and also in Europe. We'll need a double-track east coaster course. Otherwise, Sweden's longest bottleneck, with 27 km of single-track railway, risks making things difficult and destroying all the good that is now planned and implemented. Labour market regions would be strengthened, people's travel times reduced and the environment spared. Madam President, I would like I would like the Minister for Infrastructure to discuss how the priorities of the forthcoming plan will be pursued, what criteria will be used and in what scenario he can imagine that a new, double-track east coast course will not be able to meet the requirements of utility which the joint, municipal and regionally owned Ostkustbane company is now able to demonstrate.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-426	Madam President, I would like Again: I really appreciate the commitment. I have to say that in the last speech there was nothing I object to. I think there is an excellent argument about how we enlarge the labour market region and why it is important to invest in rail. What I called for from Members, who are nevertheless elected to the Swedish Parliament and will soon be voting on resources for infrastructure, is a little consequence. It is not enough to talk well about initiatives in one's own home region. I really appreciate that there is a broad consensus. My ambition as Minister of Infrastructure has been to ensure that the regions talk together about common priorities. But the fact remains: when we vote in Parliament on resources for infrastructure, the members of this interpellation debate will in all likelihood, if they have not reported anything else to their group leader, vote in favour of less than SEK 30 billion for rail investments. Now I heard the answer: we take them from the high-speed train. In the national plan for the next twelve years, three objects are main rails for high-speed trains. It is Gothenburg – Borås, it is Lund – Hässleholm and it is Linköping – Järna. Are there any of these objects that Members think should be removed? Now it's a little bit of a moment of truth. I think it is excellent that we are expanding new railways, and that is why we have now invested SEK 876 billion and propose it in a bill. If you use less resources, you have to take the consequences of it. As far as Ostkustbanan is concerned, I am very much in favour of further expansion. I think it is incredibly important for the enlargement of the labour market region, for capacity and for reducing commuting times. There are strong regional reasons but also national reasons for continuing the major efforts being made. This also applies to the goods side with the triangle bet in Sundsvall which has been very important. I think it is almost SEK 12 billion in total that is being invested and that includes regional co-financing. That's good. It needs an industrial country like Sweden. We need it both to cope with the supply of skills and to reduce commuting distances and to relieve our roads from freight traffic as it is sometimes full on the E4 and the E6. We can do this by investing in shipping or, for that matter, in rail transport. This is why we have the record amount of SEK 437 billion in our investment in the development grant. It is also true that it costs not to invest. I think that the story of when a moderate government removed the Norrbotnia Line is a good description of this. What if it hadn't been done? Then maybe we'd opened the Norrbotnia Line by now. It would have been incredibly important for Skellefteå, Lule and the entire Norrland region with Norrbotniabanan. It would certainly have facilitated and improved the conditions for further investments in northern Sweden. But in those days it was more important to give priority to other things. That is why I am highlighting this discussion now. It is not to remind us of something that happened in the past but to say that it can happen again because it is nevertheless the case that the Moderates themselves have 30 billion less in the development appropriations on infrastructure in their draft budget. Again, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the commitment and, not least, the commitment to the region with regard to the East Coastal Line. It is important and it shows, together with four tracks on the Stockholm– Uppsala section and an investment in Norrbotniabanan, how to make regional enlargements and short distances. In particular, the illustration of the effects for Sundsvall Airport was interesting in this context, although Sundsvall also has a fantastically nice airport.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-436	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure wants answers about 30 billion from me but does not want to answer for himself where 300 billion should come from. Anyone who listens will have to think about the greatness. If you think this is an important initiative, which the Minister still highlights it as, it will be strange that he has so far not answered regarding the connection between Norrbotniabanan which he talks about warmly. It will come down to one-way tracks if this is not extended. The fact is that in these almost seven years the government has not decided on any new routes. The decisions already taken have been financed according to the usual procedure, as is the case. I have not even heard Tomas Eneroth say that he can at least make sure that you see this as a project instead of the five as it is now. He doesn't even want to say that. He thinks it's good, but he's not prepared to do anything else. Madam President, I would like I would like to make a comment on the triangular tracks in Sundsvall mentioned. I guess I'll have to inform the Minister for Infrastructure that it was also the Alliance Government that decided. There's far too little time when you're interpelling. I have raised two perspectives in the past, and it was about the major industrial efforts and the issue from a regional perspective. Another important aspect, Madam President, is the environmental issue. To understand what this means, I can tell you that if you're going to transport a ton and only release a kilo of carbon dioxide, you're going 20 miles by truck but 900 miles by rail. Only that in itself is reason to invest in this double track. Madam President, I would like What other investments of between 15 and 30 billion can match all the effects of the New East Coast Line? I'd like to know.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-443	Madam President, I would like Let us first clarify the question of the 30 billion which the Minister for Infrastructure has repeated here. So we have the same framework as the government, but we spend these 30 billion on maintenance. It's really necessary, isn't it? Let us not make a chicken out of a feather at this point, but maintenance is what we put the priorities on. So we spend 30 billion more on maintenance than the government does. One could also make a big deal out of that. Now let's get back to the Ostcoast Line. Despite the infrastructure minister's evasive response, I hope that the government will give priority to the construction of Ostkustbanan, which connects the Norrland coast with southern Sweden and further out into Europe. It is about shorter travel times, just as my colleague Jörgen Berglund has explained, for everything from Hudiksval l– Stockholm, where there will be travel time reductions from two hours and 40 minutes to one hour and 50 minutes, to Gävle – Stockholm, where it goes from an hour and a half to an hour, to mention two telling examples. It is also a question of improving the traffic situation on the roads. When more goods can be transported on rail, the load on the roads is reduced. The sad situation on the two-plus-one road between Söderhamn and Gäv le can serve as a good example of why heavier goods need to go by train instead of by truck. Madam President, I would like It is also about environmental benefits. The most environmentally friendly way to both travel and transport goods is by train. With a double track along the East Coast Line, faster trains could run the route for up to 250 kilometres per hour. I firmly believe that it is better to equip and upgrade current main roads than, as the government proposes, to build new main rail lines for high-speed trains in southern Sweden. Between 23 and 41 billion, a double-track east coast course is estimated to cost. It's a lot of money, but a vest fan compared to the 230 billion that Trafikverket estimates the high-speed rails will cost – if that's enough. We'll see about that. And the government has said they want to build. Madam President, I would like This is not a partisan issue for all of us who operate and live here. My hope is that this will become a reality.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-450	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again to Members for their commitment. I would like to remind Members that it was an S-led government that expanded the efforts on the double-track expansion between Gävle and Kringlan – it is an investment of nearly SEK 6 billion – to clearly mark. Now, of course, we want to be able to complete that effort. That's how it works. If the Riksdag agrees with the historically large framework of SEK 876 billion, we will commission the Swedish Transport Administration to begin work on action plans. Then Trafikverket will come back with proposals sometime in November, if the process works as intended. Then it is a referral, and then the government will take a stand and present an initiative during the spring. I will, if I may, tell Members that, in the autumn, I will go around and meet all the regions and have good discussions with regional and local councillors and others. Because it is true that at regional and municipal councillors throughout the country, regardless of the party colour, there is, just as I notice in this discussion, a strong commitment behind initiatives whether it is about Ostkustbanan, Uppsala– Stockholm, Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm, Ostlänken, Norrbotniabanan or Sydostlinken. All the efforts that we now have in national plans and want to continue to be able to finance and take responsibility for, there is a great deal of support in regional politicians, business and chambers of commerce. But here in the Swedish Parliament there is the small detail that there is a desire, not least at the Moderates, to reduce the investment on the new railway by SEK 30 billion. It will have an effect on the financing of the items now in the forthcoming national plan. That makes the question a little uncomfortable for two Members, with whom I appreciate the commitment to East Coast Line, when it comes to the fact that you are likely to vote in favour of a proposal which, if it were to go through, would save a new railway investment.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-455	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me what I intend to do about the investigation into Bromma airport. An investigator has been appointed to analyse and explain how the operations and operations at Bromma airport can be formally phased out. This involves, among other things, describing the legal and economic conditions and consequences of the closure of the airport. The investigator also has the task of describing and reporting measures to ensure the necessary capacity at Arlanda Airport in the event of a winding-up of the business. The assignment shall be presented no later than 31 August 2021. The announcement in the Riksdag does not reduce the need to highlight these issues.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-458	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. When I was preparing for this debate, I amused myself by searching the Parliament's website under the name Bromma. From the result, the commitment to Bromma is very strong here in the Riksdag. I also believe that the Minister for Infrastructure has discussed this issue a number of times at these seats. It is probably not a turn for either the flight or the airport itself this depends on, but more the importance of Bromma airport for accessibility to Stockholm. The government's actions do not inspire confidence. Already in 2016, a majority here in the Riksdag decided that Bromma will develop, an announcement that the government has completely ignored. When it has been raised in debates, the Minister for Infrastructure has argued that the circumstances are quite different now. Absolutely – the pandemic has affected aviation. I think we all realize that. But that does not mean that the government can ignore decisions in this House. Whatever the case, the government's actions regarding Bromma are now in direct conflict with that decision. Madam President, I would like Confidence in the government in aviation is, I would say, non-existent. This government acts recklessly with important infrastructure. Then the majority here in Parliament reacts that aviation is needed for the whole of Sweden to live. Last time it took the form of another announcement, which clearly states that the government should stop and not make hasty decisions in the midst of a pandemic. The speed with which aviation recovers is currently uncertain. In this situation, forcing a rapid investigation is precisely what the decision here in Parliament wants to prevent. The fact that the Government completely ignores the decision made by the Riksdag and chooses to proceed with the investigation is remarkable. The decision is clear: the decision whether Bromma should wait until it is possible to make certain forecasts, and that will not be possible by August. Madam President, I would like The investigation set up by the government was published at a press conference where a triumphant Bolund was very clear that Bromma airport would be closed and quickly closed. The Minister for Infrastructure has in several written answers and interpellation responses about Bromma returned to the uncertain situation of aviation recovery. Why, then, does the government choose to continue on the course with an early closure of an important part of Swedish infrastructure instead of following the Riksdag's decision? The least you can ask for is an extension of the investigation period.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-463	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its reply and thank Maria Stockhaus for a very important interpellation about Bromma airport and its importance as a lifeblood for the whole country and regional airports. It is certainly no secret that Bromma Airport has this significance, which has been highlighted in the debate, in terms of accessibility to Stockholm. During the pandemic I have had the opportunity to travel from Ängelholm Airport to Stockholm. You can see how the recovery comes very well. The other week, the Committee on Economic Affairs debated regional growth in 2021 – 2030. The flight is needed throughout the country. On Friday 28 May, it was for the first time since the pandemic began three planes on the plate in Ängelholm. Two of them were going to Bromma. It is gratifying from various points of view. Among other things, it is about the national team, who trained in Båstad before the European Football Championship. It's good to see. It is amazing that athletes can cross the country with fast and short routes to be able to participate in matches and practice sports. It is also a sign that the pandemic is really going down and that we are getting closer to normal after this time. The tourism industry is another part that has wet during the pandemic with restrictions. Air travel provides some of the contact points needed to get around our country, so that we can have a tourism industry in the future. Sustainability, conversion and fuel are also the focus when it comes to aviation. The aviation industry's goal is for domestic aviation to be 100% fossil-free by 2030. Locally at the airport Ängelholm Helsingborg Airport there is biojet fuel on the way towards the new one that will follow. You do what you can. You change to be the modern means of transport in the new world. After a long period of debate on aviation, the Government of Tomas Eneroth has also begun to talk about electric flights and the future. Madam President, I would like Regional airports are important nodes in a country like ours, with great distances. It is good for education, jobs and tourism along with family reunification and sports. We believe in transition and technological development, not dissipation. In this perspective there is Bromma airport with as an important node. Now the majority of the parties in the Riksdag have supported an announcement, which has been raised here by Maria Stockhaus. The government has a demand to withdraw the planned thoughts about the commission. The question of what the Government intends to do is justified. The answers that have been given today are not enough. Bromma should be given an opportunity in the long term by looking forward to what opportunities there are with aviation. What also makes this so strange is that the government is addressing the importance of change in other sectors of society. I can take examples from previous interpellation debates today where Per Bolund answered questions. What we wrongly call fossil-free steel is a conversion of industry to something that should be the new in the future and where you should have less CO2. The second change that was mentioned is about Volvo and electric cars. It is strange that all these parts and sectors around our country are on the map for the future, while when it comes to aviation it is careful to go on the line that this is something that is not needed. There should be no change here, and this mode of transport does not even seem to exist. Bromma is therefore one of the nodes that the Government does not see as part of jobs, development and growth in our country. It's tragic. I think it is a bad thing to ignore Parliament's decisions.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-472	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to certify that no parliamentary decisions are ignored. I take the announcements made and follow them very seriously and report to the Riksdag how they work. That is also why it was important for me to say that, on the basis of the decisions made by the Riksdag, I believe that it is useful for the Riksdag to conduct a proper investigation and clarify what the decommissioning of Bromma airport would look like. What about the clean-up costs? What is the responsibility? What capacity is there at Arlanda? Madam President, I would like I believe that both Members are confusing the design of the infrastructure with the view on aviation. Let me be clear that we are investing in aviation. We have given extensive support to aviation, not least during the pandemic, with everything from capital injections to conditions for better credit guarantees for flights, not least for SAS. We have given extensive support to Swedavia and to Sweden's regional airports. We have established a public service obligation. Since commercial flights did not make it, we had to procure flights from Gotland to the mainland and not least from Norrland to the rest of the country. So we have really invested in flights. In addition, we provide government resources for investments in electric flights. We have examined the conditions for biofuels in aviation and also propose how we will gradually increase the share of biofuels. At international level, we have pushed the issue of aviation and the driving forces that exist to ensure that aviation is sustainable. I see a clear signal from not least the Swedish people. We have had a debate on air pollution, and the flight decreased long before the pandemic. If we are to fly – and we want to, because we like to travel – it should be sustainable. Therefore, Sweden has pushed the issue not least in ICAO to be able to tax fossil aviation fuel in order to change the international regulations so that the aircraft can change. Here is the Swedish aviation industry too. Here is the Swedish industry too. We have a joint program Fossil-free Sweden and see how the aviation in Sweden wants to change. Heart Aerospace invests in electric flights; although it is for a small segment, it is an important industrial development. To confuse it with the question of Bromma, I find it extremely unfortunate. There are a great many representatives, including those who are strongly involved in the development of aviation, who see the benefits of collecting flights at Arlanda. The reasons are obvious. Arlanda has obvious problems competing for international direct flights. Sweden, which is a small export-dependent country, must be able to have direct flights out into the world. We now have two more than half-empty airports in the Stockholm region. I do not think it increases the conditions to recruit and attract international direct flights to Arlanda if it is an empty airport and if you with domestic flights should first get to Bromma and then take a taxi over to Arlanda to get on. There is a pretty good rational thought of collecting domestic flights at Arlanda. When I leave Växjö and want to go further up in the country, or for that matter out into the world, I do not need to take a taxi from Bromma out to Arlanda to go further. In addition, it would be good if we were now to change the aircraft to be able to collect the conversion efforts at Arlanda, regardless of whether it is charging infrastructure or biofuels. The problem is the Moderate inability to let go of the Bromma issue. This means that you risk something that is important for Sweden but also for the Stockholm region. It is about Arlanda's attractiveness and driving force. Of course, the investigation will be a good basis for further positions from the Riksdag. I also appreciate what Maria Stockhaus highlighted at the conclusion of her speech that there may be reason to extend the investigation. Let us see if it would be urgent for the investigator to present his report on 31 August.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-482	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the Minister for Infrastructure says that he takes decisions in this House very seriously. Not long ago we had in committee the so-called letter 75 where we follow up on announcements from Parliament. If you look at that compilation and how the government has handled announcements from the Riksdag in the area of traffic, that does not indicate much respect for the decisions made here in the Riksdag. As regards the decision on Bromma from 2016, I know that nothing has been done to meet that announcement about the development of Bromma airport. Madam President, I would like In the latest announcement it is very clear that we want to see a development of Arlanda. The directive for the investigation that the government has set up only focuses on ensuring the necessary capacity at Arlanda Airport in order to take over Bromma's flight. The question is who actually defines what is necessary flight. The definition that Per Bolund makes and the definition that people who live in the country who fly to and from Bromma does probably look very different to me. In the announcement, the Swedish Parliament calls on the Government to come back with a plan for the development of Arlanda, including the necessary decisions on environmental permits, and by December this year at the latest. In this case too, it is difficult to understand that, in that situation, when an investigation has been set up, the government does not choose to give additional directives in order to be able to comply with the announcement that we have decided on here in Parliament. Madam President, I would like As I have said before, the action of the government on the issue of aviation is anything but confidence-inducing. One reason for the announcement about Arlanda is how the government chose to handle the Arlanda Council. It was a group of well-informed and serious people who worked out a number of proposals to develop Arlanda into an attractive airport, in fact both for the future and to manage the flight from Bromma after 2038. But it was also about what I think we have a common interest in aviation. It is that Arlanda should be able to grow as an international airport so that we do not lose all direct routes to Copenhagen. After the Riksdag's decision, it is time to produce the Arlanda Council's final report, a report that contains many good proposals regarding the airport itself, but also transport to and from so that they can be done in a climate-smart way and not as today to far too much by car. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is: What does the government intend to do to satisfy the announcement of a plan for Arlanda's development? That's hardly in the directive of the investigation.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-491	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When it comes to how this relates to aviation and airports, there is nothing strange about having that discussion from different perspectives. Arlanda was up on the wallpaper in the latest post from Maria Stockhaus. Today in the morning we have heard that international flight bookings to Arlanda skyrocketed for July and August. There is talk of an increase of almost 2 000 percent, according to the booking data of IATA's coordinated reservation system. The measurement is made this year during the month of April and May and compares with 2020. It can be understood that the figures are high compared to during the pandemic we were in. Maybe it's not enough. But it goes up with a high and steep increase. Travelling in 2020 was 6,535,000 compared to 25,642,623 passengers in 2019. Now it increases over two months by 1,993 percent, to be exact. That's exactly what it's all about. Where does Arlanda go? What will happen now after the pandemic? It's an international airport. The government is talking about direct flights. As Maria Stockhaus mentioned earlier, we have had direct lines that we did not want that went to Copenhagen instead. I'll let the government decide. Do you want direct flights, or shouldn't you? What happens to international flights? This must also be taken into account when discussing Bromma as an internal airport. From my perspective, it has been important to save the airport during the period of pandemic. Ängelholm Airport has been taken over by municipalities to secure jobs, development and growth in the region. This is extremely important for the regions. It's way too early to say anything about Bromma. It must be allowed to have a development together with what is happening at Arlanda.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-497	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! I also appreciate the communitisation of the airport and the public entry when the market does not want or can operate the airport further. It is a strong commitment that exists in the municipalities around Helsingborg and Ängelholm. I really appreciate that. I think it's important to secure redundancy. I also think there is a concern here with the argument. We can see that direct flights are still being established in Copenhagen to an increasing extent. It is a region with 4.5 million inhabitants and with a strongly growing Öresund region. It is still a concern if the base at Arlanda is too small to compete. Madam President, I would like The question to Maria Stockhaus may be: Are the conditions for international direct flights to Arlanda improved by dividing domestic flights at two airports in Stockholm? The work of the Arlanda Council, which I led, included ensuring that we can still have a positive development for what is not only for the Stockholm region but for the country is an important international airport. I am among those who believe that the flight is in a good position to change. A change may be facilitated by the fact that the flight could gather at Arlanda Airport. Let's look into the conditions. This is where the Moderates decide. On the one hand, we want a plan for Arlanda's expansion. At the same time, it is said that the government must not investigate the matter. There is something called preparation requirements, and there should be documentation before the government proposes anything. I still think it's rather important that we investigate. Madam President, I would like That is why in the interpellation answer I was very clear to say that it also benefits not least the Riksdag to highlight the issues that are necessary to secure the capacity at Arlanda, for example. Finally, we should not confuse the infrastructure challenges with our approach to aviation. The flight is needed in an industrial country like Sweden, but the flight needs to be changed. The flight in Sweden now wants to change. That was not the case before. I have noticed that representatives of the aviation industry are probably more progressive than perhaps representatives of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats sometimes are. Now there are no longer the demands to remove the airline tax or some other proposals. Now it is rather: now increase the support for our conversion. Make sure we get the conditions for the reduction obligation so that we can have more biofuels in the aircraft. Look at the charging capacity and conditions for charging infrastructure for electric flights at the country's airports. From very many airports around Sweden they now want to be a trial and demonstration arena for electric flights, not least. I think this is a positive development. We will continue to do this in Sweden, because we have the ambition to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will become a country where we ensure that the transport sector assumes its responsibilities and reduces emissions by 70% by 2030 and to net zero by 2045. In the automotive industry and in the automotive sector it is within reach. I am also relatively optimistic about shipping, although there are challenges. In aviation, the challenge may be greatest, but there is now a strong change. If we can also put in place international regulations such as the EU ETS, the ETS, or ICAO rules on the taxation of fossil aviation fuel, we will have clear drivers and incentives. I am therefore optimistic and positive about the transition. With regard to Mr Bromma, I can only say that this is an issue that has been discussed for a very, very long time. I think it would be good for Sweden to come to a decision and ensure that we have a strengthened and secured capacity at Arlanda.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-507	Madam President, I would like I believe that the decision here in Parliament with the latest announcement on Bromma is very much about the government taking advantage of this opportunity and using Bromma as a pawn in a political game in an uncertain time when it comes to what developments will look like after the pandemic. One might wonder what it was that the Green Party had to go for so that they would have the opportunity to eat cake and celebrate that Bromma would now be laid down. Capacity and how to deal with it in the future is an extremely important issue, and I think that is what makes the reactions so sharp. For example, one can look at the actions of the Bra. In the first situation, they say that they may be prepared to move over after all. Then the negotiations on castle times begin, and then they realize that they will have no business. They have no conditions at Arlanda, and then they go back and say that they want to continue at Bromma. There is much in this process that is strange, not least Swedavia's report that no one can see. But in that report they also say that expansion is necessary if domestic aviation is to be able to move over and if it is also to be able to develop domestic aviation. I share the view of the Minister for Infrastructure that it is important that we look at developing Arlanda. There, however, the Green Party, the Minister for Infrastructure's government partner, has made it very clear that this is out of the question. The investigation that is now in place is not about developing Arlanda, but is just about ensuring that there is capacity to take over Bromma's flight – nothing else. There is nothing about developing Arlanda Airport. I would like to conclude by asking what it is necessary for the government to respect the majority of Parliament. The entire action on Bromma Airport, regarding both the announcement from 2016 and the latest announcement, is totally disrespectful towards a majority in the Riksdag.
i-5768QGRfjkzjM8KfKaSWqw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. Let me start in Parliament. As I have mentioned earlier in today's interpellation debates, I have been in Parliament for a long time. I came in 1994 and have the greatest respect for the discussions, proposals and decisions taken here. Therefore, it has been very important for me as Minister of Infrastructure to also be careful to follow Parliament's decisions. What has happened with regard to the announcements, not least in 2016, is that we got a discussion about air cams, which led to a sharp reduction in air traffic. Since then, we have also had a pandemic which means that virtually all scheduled flights between countries have ceased. We stand with empty capacity at Bromma, Arlanda and at many airports around the world. I don't know if it's a good idea from either the Moderates or anyone else to push on empty business to very expensive money. We should be careful about taxpayers' money. Swedavia has submitted a report to the Government showing that there are no market conditions to pursue Bromma further. We know from international aviation organisations that it will take quite a long time before the flight recovers – to 2025, 2026 or 2027. It is clear that there may then be opportunities to still investigate what the closure and decommissioning of Bromma's operations can look like and whether there are conditions to secure the capacity at Arlanda. I believe that such an investigation procedure would be of such importance regardless of the conclusion to be drawn. I do not see that this would in any way be an obstruction to the parliamentary decision. On the contrary, it would be a way of actually ensuring that we have a good basis for decision making in the future. I think it's important. I understand and have every respect that an opposition party wants to suspect and push. That's how it should be, and I'm sure it would be if the seats were changed too. However, I think that at this point we must listen not least to the various representatives of the business community, such as the Chamber of Commerce in Stockholm and others, as when a concern about what it means if we cannot get a capacity at Arlanda.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-517	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me three questions about rules for biogas cars and the state environmental car definition. Let me begin by emphasising that the government is making great efforts to re-establish the transport sector and our fleet of vehicles. An important part of this work is improved conditions not least for biogas. We have, among other things, introduced support for the development of biogas buses and for private purchase of biogas cars. We have commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to review the additional costs of gas cars during inspection. We have broadened the support for the production of biogas. These are important efforts to enable Sweden to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Sweden, like other EU countries, is now tasked with implementing an EU directive to strengthen the market introduction of electric and hydrogen cars. As far as public procurement is concerned, the EU directive requires 38.5% to be a pure light car. The proposal therefore does not prohibit the procurement of gas cars by the public sector. About two out of three cars procured in the public sector will continue to be gas cars. The proposal on how the EU Directive should be implemented in Sweden, including the amendment to the state-owned environmental car definition, is now in the process of being consulted on 28 June, and the government is prepared to listen to the views of the consultation bodies. For me, it goes without saying that we need strong action in several areas to switch the transport sector to fossil freedom. The best use of biogas as a resource must be made.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-522	Madam President, I would like A biogas car should no longer be defined as an environmental car. This is the consequence of the proposal that the government has now sent out for referral. Today biogas cars are defined as environmental cars. They are included in the bonus – the Malus system as bonus cars. You get 10 000 SEK in discount if you buy a biogas car. It's perfectly justified. We in the Left Party really fought for the biogas cars to be included in the bonus – the Malus system when it was introduced in Sweden. That's what happened. Why? Because biogas is a fantastic energy source that reduces greenhouse gas emissions by about 80 percent. Biogas is also circular in the true sense of the word, as it comes from farms in Sweden or from our food waste at home. It may also be sewage sludge that we do not want to use for anything else. We can rot that and make biogas out of it so that we can drive buses, cars and other things on it. As the Minister said, the government has promoted biogas in many different ways. There are investment grants to produce biogas. As I mentioned earlier, biogas cars, in all until now, are bonus cars within the bonus – the malus system. Biogas is also tax-exempt, and the government has now fought us an exemplary ten more years of tax exemption in the EU for biogas – great! The latest proposal from the government was that the extra cost when inspecting a biogas car should be removed. That is great and something we in the Left Party have fought for. It is therefore very strange that the government, on the one hand, promotes biogas but, on the other hand, that biogas should be punished when biogas cars should not be classified as environmental cars! Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal has received massive criticism from the environmental movement, biogas producers and Sveby. Here in my hand I have a petition from a large proportion of Sweden's biogas producers. The majors – Gasum, Scandinavian Biogas and Fordonsgas Sweden – have signed the petition. Everyone appeals to the government to change and do the right thing. Make sure to protect biogas cars like environmental cars! A new environmental car definition came in just a year ago, on 1 July 2020. There are biogas cars classified as environmental cars. Why, Tomas Eneroth, are we now putting our feet on that definition and removing the biogas cars from the definition? It is not the case that the European directive requires us to change our environmental car definition. It is true, as the Minister said in his speech, namely that the EU directive requires at least 38.5% of the vehicles procured to be clean and light vehicles. It's not biogas vehicles. Then there is a large space for biogas vehicles. However, if the environmental car definition changes, it sends out signals that the government no longer believes that the biogas car is an environmental car. It can have very negative consequences. I asked a question in my interpellation whether the government has carried out an impact assessment to remove biogas cars from the environmental car definition. How will this affect the biogas market and the promotion of biogas?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-530	Madam President, I would like I think this is a strange debate. Jens Holm is witnessing himself and even commends the government's efforts for not least biogas cars. These are premiums, investments, improved conditions and the latest inspection. That we then in the state-owned environmental car definition, where the state has about 30 biogas cars, says that the state should go ahead and procure clean cars is not something that affects the entire biogas market. This is about the 30 car models that the government has to procure as biogas vehicles. The 38.5 % rule applies to municipalities and regions. With the existing regulations, the share of biogas vehicles in municipalities and regions can even be increased. It does not concern private individuals at all. It was not that long ago that we had a discussion in the Chamber where Jens Holm talked hot for the expansion of electric buses in public transport. Now it's obviously quite a different tone. I think it is a good thing that we promote electric vehicles and that the state takes precedence. Then in these times one may think it is strange that Jens Holm is having a big discussion about this when Jens Holm now, not only in the committee, increasingly makes agreements with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats to conduct a policy that counteracts such a development. This is happening, above all, at a time when we are in danger of having a parliamentary situation with a government that will not promote the climate in the future. It is also the consequence of the actions of Jens Holm and his party at the moment.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-534	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister does not answer my questions, but the Minister tries to dribble away the cards and wants to debate something else, such as the rule of Sweden. It is an important issue, and it is an issue that will come up on Monday. For all those who follow the debate, I would like to tell you that we in the Left Party are always looking for a majority for the best proposals, including, of course, in the area of the environment and climate. Some of the areas that we are now getting through are an increased investment in electrification in Sweden. We will vote on this next week. We will ensure that the Swedish Transport Administration receives an increased grant credit so that they can do better maintenance work so that the money does not run out in November – and then the projects can be started again in January. We will ensure that there are pilots who work in a modern way and work throughout Sweden. These are some of the issues on which we in the Left Party have raised motions. We are pleased that, for example, Moderates and Christian Democrats choose to support the proposals. Madam President, I would like In this debate, it is ultimately about the environmental car definition we should have. Today biogas cars are defined as environmental cars. We got a new environmental car definition as late as a year ago. In the Government's proposal, biogas cars should therefore be removed from that definition. Does the Minister of Infrastructure think that we need to have an environmental car definition in order for the EU directive to be implemented in Sweden? Is that the reason why biogas cars should be removed from the environmental car definition? It is not the case that the environmental car definition only governs how authorities procure. I agree that it is the origin of the definition, but there are many who take back the environmental car definition, follow it and look at how an environmental car is defined. Well, it's defined this way. If you remove biogas cars, it sends a signal that they are vehicles that the government does not consider to be environmental vehicles. Is a biogas car, Tomas Eneroth, an environmental vehicle? The impact assessment for the biogas market, for the promotion of biogas cars, where is it in the proposal?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-539	Madam President, I would like Let me first make a more general political reflection. Nevertheless, I can see that it is now relatively often that the Left Party in the Committee on Transport and Tourism settles with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Now it is a question of causing a constitutional crisis when the Left Party has declared that it will vote for the Swedish Democrats' motion of censure on the government. How it will contribute to a more constructive and progressive climate policy is completely foreign to me, but it may Jens Holm can account for in some other context. This is about promoting biogas cars. We do so in a variety of ways with production subsidies and now, most recently, with the proposal for support for the inspection of biogas cars. We do a lot to promote biogas vehicles. We also think that it is reasonable for the state to take precedence. The state-owned environmental car definition, which only sets out what government authorities are supposed to do, reportedly contains some thirty vehicles. There it is reasonable for the state to take the lead and show that we can indeed also promote clean cars, as defined by the European Union. In that case, it would mean charging hybrids or, for that matter, certainly pure electric cars in the vehicles in question. This isn't going to have a big impact. On the contrary, the 38.5 % rule means that regions and municipalities can still increase the share of biogas vehicles in their procurement. Private cars are not affected by this. Rather, we increase the incentives to buy biogas vehicles with the inspection premium or discussion that has been put out as a mission to look at inspection costs. I do not share the concerns, but I have also been careful to send the proposal for a referral. I will listen to the views of the consultative bodies. I also believe that it is a misconception or a conscious way of attracting attention – I have every respect for that – but if you read the proposal carefully, it emerges that we have to implement a European directive. Sweden does. In this connection, we are strengthening the level of ambition of the state in terms of having more clean vehicles. That Jens Holm and the Left Party think it is a concern that the state wants to go ahead and have more clean vehicles is a bit strange. Why would that be a concern? Let us first consider the views of the consultative bodies on the referral that exists, and then let us discuss how we will regulate in the future. The important thing is that everyone is aware that there is a directive to implement. Sweden does.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-545	Madam President, I would like Once again, I am not getting an answer from the Minister. Where is the impact assessment for how this affects the promotion of biogas cars and biogas as an energy source in Sweden? Yes, I've read the memo from the government. I really do not understand why biogas cars need to be deleted from the definition that was introduced in Sweden only a year ago. As the Minister says, it is perfectly possible to reach up to 38.5% clean light vehicles, i.e. electric vehicles and hydrogen vehicles. But you don't have to remove biogas from the environmental car definition for that. Or do you have to, Tomas Eneroth? That's what I've been asking you all along. Why do you remove the biogas cars from the environmental car definition? And, Tomas Eneroth, are biogas cars environmental cars?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-548	Madam President, I would like As I say, I think the consequence is that the thirty biogas vehicles that the government has procured will eventually become electric vehicles. That is surely one consequence of the state's environmental car definition. Otherwise, there is no doubt that it is under the leadership of this government and under the leadership of Social Democratic governments that we have pursued a progressive climate and environmental policy and promoted both biogas production and biogas vehicles. We have also seen a dramatic increase in the number of biogas vehicles. We are obliged to implement the EU directive, and that means that we can continue to increase even the share of biogas vehicles in the country. Jens Holm belongs to a party that is now endangering this type of effort by supporting the motion of censure of the Swedish democrats on Monday and perhaps, in that situation, if the accident were to occur, ensure that we have a completely different climate and environmental policy in this country.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-552	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me if I intend to take any steps to promote seal hunting. He has also asked me whether I intend to work to facilitate hunting in protected areas and whether I intend to work in international contexts to obtain exemptions for trade in seal products from animals that have been killed during a licence hunt. Today, there are viable populations of grey seals and bays in the Baltic Sea as well as chubby seals in the Western Sea. The grey seal population in the Baltic Sea has experienced very strong growth in recent years and is now deemed to have favourable conservation status under the Species and Habitats Directive. Grey seals are our largest seal species and have a relatively high food requirement. This, together with other impact factors, can have negative effects on several different fish stocks. I am also aware that seals cause damage because they can take fish directly out of fishing nets and destroy fishing gear. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's decision to license hunting on grey seal, it is allowed to fell 2,000 grey seals during the period 20 April – 31 December 2021. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also decided to allow the hunting of 900 chubby seals and 420 bays during 2021 and early 2022. A scientific evaluation of the licence hunt on grey seal must be presented by June 2021. The government is aware that seal hunting is time-consuming and combines d with costs for the individual hunter. Nor is it possible for a hunter to sell seal skins or meat, for example, because of the EU ban on trade in seal products. The Council considers that the possibility of pursuing the issue of lifting the EU ban on trade in seal products is very limited at the moment. Prior to 2021, the Government of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has decided that a maximum of SEK 3 million may be allocated to the county administrative boards to be used for compensation for handling costs of grey seals that have been shot with the support of decisions of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding protection hunting and license hunting. In the run-up to future maritime, fisheries and aquaculture programmes, the Government also intends to propose the inclusion of an aid measure allowing compensation for handling costs of felled seals during protection hunting or licence hunting. In the case of hunting in protected areas, it has long been possible to carry out various types of activities such as hunting and fishing, if this does not undermine the purpose of protection. Overall, I and the government have taken several measures to facilitate the management of seal populations. We are following this issue very closely and will tirelessly continue the work of healthy seas, viable fish stocks and living coastal communities.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-557	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. After discussions and discussions with residents in the archipelago and active coastal fishermen, I have understood that the large seal population is a big and important issue. In the Baltic Sea today, the number of grey seals is estimated to be between 50 000 and 70 000 individuals. To that can be added a population of about 20,000 bays. Both species are classified as viable in Artdatabanken, and according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the population increases by 8 per cent a year. Experienced hunters with whom I have spoken report that seal populations are now threatened by overpopulation due to their rapid growth. Many seals are found dulled and in a state of starvation. A study conducted by Denmark's University of Technology in 2019 on saithe in the western Baltic Sea found that the individuals there ate more than 1,300 kg of cod each year and 130 kg of flatfish. Grey seal eats a wider menu depending on availability but prefers cod. Thus, the annual potential cod quota in the Baltic Sea is 52 000 tonnes. In the eastern Baltic Sea there is a ban on fishing for cod in 2021. In the Western Baltic there is a stop to fishing against playing cod. When there was last a cod fishing quota in the Baltic Sea – it was 2019 – it amounted to 7,000 tonnes. According to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, the damage caused by grey seals to fishing is significant. In an opinion to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, HaV states that damage caused by seal occurs in principle along the entire coast of Sweden and that the damage is extensive. In particular, near-coastal commercial and domestic fishing with passive gears is reported to be severely affected by seal damage. According to an old data from 2014, the financial damage then amounted to over SEK 33 million. According to HaV, there is no evidence that the damage has been reduced. On the contrary, there are great numbers of darkness. It is high time for a new and recent investigation so that we know the extent of the damage caused by the seal. Hunting for seals is permitted today on the basis of EU directives and Helcom's recommendation on seals. Under current national legislation, hunting for grey seals is permitted in the form of protection hunting and licence hunting. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the decision-making authority after consultation of the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority. During 2021, the licence hunt on grey seal will take place from 20 April to 31 December. A total of 2 000 grey seals may be set in a common quota for the counties in which the licence hunt may be conducted. On May 5 this year 126 seals were felled. Last year the hunt failed completely, one might say, when the quota was 2 000 and you shot only 1,023. Madam President, I would like The Minister says in his reply that the government is following this issue very closely. I think that is a good thing. But what tools are there in the minister's toolbox so that the quota can be filled this year and you can go from last year's 1 023 to 2 000? What tools does the Minister have to develop?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-565	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! I agree with what Magnus Oscarsson began by saying – that this is a big and important issue that affects many, not least because it affects the conditions for doing business for fishing in certain parts. The issue is also big and important because overpopulation, as one might see in these tribes at the moment, is not a good thing either. There will be competition for food, and today we can see dull seals because there is simply too little food. At the same time, I can see that this is a species that has been protected over time. This shows that measures taken, such as a ban on hunting, can in fact create populations in a positive way. When this happens you should manage them, and then you should use the tools available, which in this context is primarily license hunting and protective hunting. The government is now working on both of these tools. We introduced, for the first time in a very long time, the possibility of a licence hunt during this period. Then it is not as simple as the problem disappearing with this. Magnus Oscarsson has also explained in a very clear and good way the problems we see in this regard, not least linked to the amount of shootings in relation to the volume of possible shootings according to the license hunting decision. The decision concerned 2 000 shootings, and the number of seals felled this far during the period was 1,023, if I remember correctly. This is less than the number taken by protection hunting; there are two different forms of hunting in this context. That, of course, is not good. This may well be due to many things. When asked the responsible authorities, they say that they believe that both the coronapandemy, possibly, and the ban on cod fishing have affected this. Magnus Oscarsson himself mentioned that it is perhaps most of all the cod fish who have seen the problem, given that it is their cod that is the primary food for the seals. They have also had a great interest in shooting off. But hunting seals is hard. One needs to know one's thing, and it is necessary to work with incentives for this. However, what we can note and which is gratifying in this context is that more people report shooting seals today than before. In other words, more people are now present in the systems and making efficient management possible in the long term. When it comes to incentives, they are challenging in many ways, not least given that it is costly and difficult and that you cannot sell the meat. This is regulated by a ban at EU level, but above all by the fact that Sweden, which previously had an exception to this regulation in the EU, got rid of it when the WTO decided that it was not appropriate for us to have it, following an appeal from Norway and Canada, if I remember correctly. So we have both the rules of the WTO and the EU to deal with in this context. So far, none of these organizations signal that they are open to, or interested in, changing these decisions. But, of course, we are following this closely to see if there is any opening to raise these issues and to bring about constructive changes in order to achieve hunting ethics, for that is what it is ultimately about in this context. I think, of course, that it is unethical to shoot animals and then not be able to take care of the meat and the skin, but instead have to burn it. We have currently dealt with the situation through the existence of a cost of handling. I would be happy to come back to it and to what we do more in this area in the next speech.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-576	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Like the Minister, this is a very big issue for many who live and work in coastal areas and are completely dependent on being able to get fish in their nets. I would like to hear a little more about the tools of the government, as I mentioned earlier. What are the concrete measures and proposals in the toolbox that can actually improve so that more seals are shed? During my discussion with experienced hunters, they report precisely how the seal population is now threatened by overpopulation due to its rapid growth. Many seals found are dulled and in a state of starvation. On a question from my colleague Elin Lundgren, who drew attention to the famine situation of several hunters on the Hälsinge coast, the Minister refers to the ocular inspection by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management in connection with the fur change in May and June. However, the concentration of seals in this part has been highlighted for a long time, which raises the question of whether the management of seals should not be given a new direction in which the conditions for hunting may be extended. The hunting of seals requires a good boat and above all a hunter with great knowledge. But – now comes the usual – the hunter must also be prepared for lots of bureaucracy, for there needs to be close dialogue with authorities on reporting, permits and more. The sharp demarcation of hunting towards Natura 2000 sites and other protected areas also leads to a high concentration of seal strains in these areas, resulting in overpopulation and starvation. One factor that raises the threshold for hunters to hunt seals is that some county boards charge a fee for applying for hunting in public waters. The need for a procedure to be carried out for each hunter must be seen as unnecessary when the County Administrative Board could just as well announce a general hunt for public water during the times that are intended. My question to the Minister is, Madam President: will the Minister work towards a simpler and smaller regulation for hunters to hunt for seals so that the quota can be filled in 2021? As we talked about before, it has not been filled more than a little more than half. Last year 1023 seals were felled by a quota of 2 000. And we have a stock of seals the size of between 50,000 and 70,000. You have to think about what that means. The public debate in Sweden is that seal is cute – and it is absolutely sweet. But it's not cute when they die of starvation. In the debate, we really must call for the tribe to be brought down so that it really makes a difference, for the seals themselves, but above all for the fishermen to see the difference.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-583	Madam President, I would like I think that Magnus Oscarsson and I are basically quite in agreement, both about what the problem picture looks like and about that long-term incentives are needed for us to get a development that means that one wisely manages the seal tribe. That is what this is all about at this point. It is challenging – I think we agree on that too. But the government has taken a large number of measures linked to this in order to achieve exactly what Magnus Oscarsson is asking, namely to make it easier, better and smarter so that this can be handled in a good way. Not least, the introduction of licence hunting was such a measure that licence hunting is supposed to take place in a simpler way – you don't have to apply for deferment, and you don't have to have an authority decision for each conviction. At the same time, we are trying to find compensatory compensations given that the way forward is complicated when it comes to getting permission to sell the products, which of course from a hunting ethics perspective would have been desirable at the moment. But when it is not possible, we work with other tools until it is hopefully possible. For example, it can be to ensure that the felling fees are paid for the additional cost of handling the meat. There is currently such support to be applied for. We are also looking at extending this possibility in the new maritime and fisheries programme, which we are now working on for the next programming period – adding it as a searchable element there too in order to deal even better with the current situation. At the same time, we are looking at the overall picture linked to this. We want a healthy Baltic Sea, viable fish stocks and a healthy and well-managed seal population. These parts are of course partly connected, so measures in some affect the conditions in other parts. We have worked very hard to target funds to get better aquatic environment and climate in the sea. We spend 200 million a year on that. Sweden has been active in the discussions that have been about the cod-fishing stop and that situation. We have also been active in taking national decisions in order, for example, to introduce licence hunting. But that is not enough; I can agree with Magnus Oscarsson on that. In addition to this, we are allocating money for wild game pests. In this regard, HaV has SEK 20 million annually to distribute. Of these, 5 million go to preventive measures, and 15 million goes to compensation for damage caused by the seal. It is clear that it would have been much nicer to use, above all, the last 15 million, which goes to damage, for something that would have been forward-looking rather than just dealing with problems. That is why we need more measures in place that prove to be effective. When it comes to the preventive parts of the county boards' work, it can certainly look different how you work. Here we have quite recently adopted a national seal management plan. We have also given the regions – speaking of what Magnus Oscarsson asked for – a mission to revise their regional management plans based on the new national plan that now exists. Some county administrative boards, especially those with a lot of problems, such as the L thanstyrelsen in Stockholm County, have been good and are well ahead. They have worked with preventive measures such as seal fences and noise interference, which are examples of tools in this context. I'd like to see more of that.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-591	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I listen to what the Minister says and hear that there are some barley there that I think are positive. What I want to highlight as important is the fact that there are county boards that charge a special fee. I think the Minister should now take that along and think about it. Another thing is the number of darkness that we talked about. Here are the data from 2014. It's been so long! You have to see how much it costs today. We know that the seal population has completely exploded. It is clear that if this were to happen on land, you would have a completely different feeling about it. The Minister and I have talked a lot about boars. But in the ocean you don't notice it that way. It is only the poor fish who notice that the seal is there again and again. That is why it is so important that something is done. The Minister mentioned the great concern that we must not use seals for anything. In the past, seal was used in archipelago environments for paint. It can be used in clothing and for bags, furniture and art. But as the Minister was on, you can no longer do so. I wonder: when was the last time the Minister raised the question of whether the ban could be lifted and that Sweden could make an exception? Or does the Minister intend to do this in a context where she can change?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-596	Madam President, I would like Let me thank you for a good debate. I always appreciate constructive debates. I would very much appreciate it if, in the future debate on this particular problem, we could jointly consider what tools we would like to see that do not exist. I note that we very much agree on the problem picture. Magnus Oscarsson also notes that the government is actually doing a number of things in this area that are good and in demand, but it is difficult and challenging. The specific issue that came at the end – precisely when to raise the issue at international level – may I perhaps come back to. We make an overall assessment of all the issues that are in each portfolio, whether they are for consultation, require decision-making or acceptance at EU level or, as in this case, at WTO level. We do that all the time. This issue is not on the agenda at all at the moment. An individual country can, of course, take it up, but if an issue is to be put on the agenda, it must be assessed that it can at least be moved forward. Otherwise, there is a risk of a setback in the handling. At the moment, we are not making the assessment that it would move the issue forward if we referred to it as a single country. We believe that we should wait and see if anything else is happening in this area, given that the situation we have in this area is not reasonably unique to Sweden. We have had a situation – the whole debate suffers from it – when seal stocks did not have favourable conservation status. All over the world, pictures of clubbing seal cubs to death came out. This picture remains in many Member States. I think it will sit there until one feels that the seals are actually many and cause problems. We are waiting for a few more to be prepared to hook an arm with Sweden. In this situation, it is interesting and smart to raise the issue at international level again.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-603	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked the Minister for the Interior if he will work to ensure that the government makes proposals that will make the sandwichers able to change and continue to be a prerequisite for a living countryside. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Good access to both commercial and public services is essential to make living, operating and living in all parts of the country attractive. Daily stores and fuel stations are of particular importance because they often serve as service points, i.e. as a hub for other service types, as agents for e.g. postal and parcel services, payment services and pharmacies, and sometimes also some public services. It is the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency that makes regulations regarding environmental regulations for fuel stations in accordance with the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods. According to the regulation on cisterns with connected pipelines for flammable liquids, existing hot galvanised pipelines in soils which are not moisture-insulated may be used until 1 July 2022 without corrosion protection. This is a requirement that has been included in the Authority's regulation since 2014. The purpose of the regulation is to keep the risk of fire and explosion as low as possible in the handling of flammable and explosive goods and to promote an equivalent level of protection and safety for handling throughout the country. In other words, it should be equally safe to refuel your car in all parts of the country and at all fuel stations. Between 2015 and 2020, the Riksdag has allocated more than SEK 1 billion to efforts aimed at supporting fuel stations and grocery stores in rural areas in various ways. This total includes both national state resources and the funds financed under the rural development programme. The government continues its efforts to facilitate, among other things, the small fuel stations. Therefore, additional funds have been added to the rural development programme for the years 2021 to 2022, and in the so-called "p rogram Amendment 7", among other things, an additional SEK 160 million has been allocated to the investment support for commercial service. Programme Amendment 7 was approved by the Commission in April 2021. The Government has also allocated SEK 50 million in 2020 – 2022 for fast charging along major roads as well as increased funding for the Climate Cell, which also sandwich owners can take part in, in order to increase access to future fuel throughout the country. Furthermore, on behalf of the Government, the county administrative boards of the country have developed regional plans for infrastructure for electric vehicles and renewable fuels. Good accessibility throughout Sweden, through a reliable, robust and long-term sustainable transport system, is needed for people and business to be able to live and operate in all parts of the country and for Sweden to stay together.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-610	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my question as to how sandwiches run as family businesses or by individual small businesses will be able to change without being able to take advantage of the funds needed to make the investments needed for the environment and for safety. On one side there are funds from the government, and on the other side are the station owners without being able to seek them. I can state that the Government's response does not give an answer to how this is to be solved, at least not if it is believed that the goal is that the gas station owners and gas stations should remain and exist after 1 July 2022, when the pipelines should be replaced and plasticized tanks should be in place. One alternative is that the government will let these sandwiches fall. Another option is that the government takes a move to ensure that they can exist and that the service does not disappear. I'm thinking of community care. It could be home help, and it could be emergency services. But we are also talking about the tourism industry. In the northern part of the country it is very visible that scooters used precisely in the tourism industry thoughts. We can see on the Norwegian side. We all know that we have a pandemic and have had a pandemic that has struck with full force against the tourism industry. Normally caravans of mobile homes and caravans provide income for inland municipalities, such as Vilhelmina. These sandwiches are also tourist points that offer fishing licenses, maps and directions for outdoor activities. They allow these places to have a form of life level. Without them, it will be very empty. The local population and those who already live in sparsely populated areas should be able to get to and from work. There's a lot of distance. I have read the Government's response to Sydsvenskan that it is extremely important that it is a reasonable distance to a gas station. There, 20 minutes are lifted as unfortunate in order to get to the nearest point of sale. Of course, it is not ideal to have to get there in those minutes, because it will be over 20 km. But the reality is considerably different. There are marked differences. We can talk about distances that take up to an hour to drive home, and then you can't refuel. Two years ago, after a meeting in the Riksdag on sparsely populated areas and the importance of service points in the countryside, I decided to follow a young girl who has taken over a family business up in Pajala, in Kitkiöjärvi. For her it was not possible to take over the family business. Either you have to clean up the gas station, which there is no money for, or you have to invest with money that you don't have to be able to reset, and then you have to cancel. Government! There is a lot of road and a lot of forest to pass when you go in the northern part of Sweden. Macks and country shops are very important service points. They have fuels and essential basic everyday activities for the local population. The Minister for Rural Development listed a number of funds. It is 1 billion in state funds, money spent in rural programmes between 2015 and 2020. It is 160 million in EU funds, and it is 50 million SEK in 2020 – 2022 for fast charging. But the fact remains. You can write and say that even sandwich owners can take part of this, but it becomes a clean paper product. In addition, it will be as a letter in the mail that the station owners cannot afford to reschedule. Instead, someone else has to take over the cost if they go bankrupt and can no longer exist. This is evident from the information that is being disseminated in our country. Madam President, I would like Will you take a retake for the remaining time so that the stations can remain after July 1st, the Government?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-619	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! I share the interpellant's view that it is very important to have both sandwiches and grocery stores in the countryside. It is a prerequisite for living, operating and running businesses throughout our country. Therefore, the government has systematically and long-term worked to ensure that there is support that both grocery stores and gas station owners can apply for for operation and investments. It is quite a considerable amount that we have set aside for this. You can, for example, look at the country merchants. We can see that this is likely to have meant that there has been a halt to the reduction in the number. We're even seeing some start-up, which is the first time in a very long time. The importance of this should not be underestimated. I would say that the gas station or grocery store is today's new church in the middle of the village. That is what many times makes a collection of houses more than just a collection of houses. It will be a hub that can deliver service, not just in the form of a litre of milk or a litre of gasoline. In fact, you are often a hub that acts as a representative for, for example, pharmacies, mail and Systembolaget. This is therefore very important and very urgent. Then there is the question of the gas stations, linked to the requirement and regulation that is now in place to ensure that underground pipes meet a standard so that there is no risk of explosion or fire. This is a difficult challenge, especially for individual gas station owners. There I fully agree with Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. However, I have to say that in some sense the question is twofold. Some are about what you do to meet the gas station owners' need to invest in a good way. The second part is, of course, about how to ensure that there is access to fuel, whatever it is, at a reasonable distance throughout the country, so that you can refuel your car. It's not necessarily the same thing. As far as the latter is concerned, I can see that we are actually seeing an increase in the number of small sandwiches, if they are removed within the framework of the large companies, at the moment. It does not really sound like that in the debate, but that is what the statistics say. However, it is primarily mobile devices, which are unmanned. But of course they provide fuel, which is very important for all the areas that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson listed. It is about ensuring that there is an infrastructure that allows you to live and live throughout the country. It can be achieved with that part. As regards the part dealing with gas station owners and gas station owners' needs and challenges linked to MSB's regulations, there is investment aid to be applied for. They're quite generous. I think you can get 80% to 90%, depending on the system you are looking for. I can also say that the fuel sector has picked out a very small proportion of the billion that has been present in these systems. And the County Administrative Board reports that so far there's not much pressure from the fuel side on that part. It can certainly have to do with possibly not having the ability to handle the small part that is left over. I am prepared to discuss concrete proposals on how to achieve this, but I have not heard such a thing so far in the debate from the opposition.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-628	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your speech! Yeah, there's a lot of money. But the gas station owners don't have the funds when they're going to search. They're very small and don't have the muscles to sleep out with this money. It's hard to become today's new church in the middle of the village if you can't reset. Let me take an example from the northern part of the country. A gas station owner in Harad would be out of town with $2 million until he could apply and get the money back. The gas station owner and others need a so-called bridge loan, that is, they need to borrow money for a short period of time to be able to lay pipes, plastic the cisterns and remake the gas station, so that it becomes in the basic condition that MSB has now requested in terms of security and protection. It was not possible, therefore, to find anyone who wanted to spend these funds, even though the government is talking about all this money that there is to be sought for the gas station owners. There were a dozen "nos " from those who could leave money — banks. So how did it end in Harad? Well, the councillor had to get into the bank and persuade it to get short-term loans and then get funds from the rural development programme. It is indeed an extraordinary act and an act in crisis if a councillor has to get into the bank. I imagine that is not the development we want. So it was on my hair that it worked out. This gas station owner would have checked out now in June if this had not been possible. When it came to this place, the home ministry would have to drive 60 miles to refuel without that gas station. If these sandwiches disappear, the living countryside, where you can live and work, will not work. I don't think it's weird. I think it is exactly as I have said and as the Government also says. If there are no applicants, it may be because you are not able to apply because you are not able to do what is expected of you. Madam President, I would like It is not that the gas station owners are cutting gold with a knife in these operations. The Minister for Rural Affairs also knows this, given her background in an inland municipality in Halland – although the distances in inland municipalities in southern Sweden are different from those in northern parts. But it is clear that there is a problem. Even in the part of the country I come from, Skåne, people will be able to get around, and many places are located outside the urban areas. If you work shifts in healthcare, for example, you must be able to get there and then you must have fuel for the car at a reasonable distance. In Sydsvenskan Sofia and Magnus Westin in Dösjebro in Kävlinge municipality write about their combined gas station and trade: If one of these parts is missing, we will have a very hard time getting by. The Government has also raised the importance of services such as mail, pharmacies and more. I think it will be problematic if service points are closed down in the future. I will come back to my solution to the problem in my next speech.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-639	Madam President, I would like I think there are several reasons why the search pressure is low. Perhaps you cannot take part in this because self-financing of 10 – 20% can be difficult to manage. But the most important reason I have taken note of when I have travelled around the country and met gas station owners and supermarkets who were interested in receiving investment aid to make investments in their business but could not spend the money: the bank said no to a short-term loan. I think that we politicians together should be clear that it is unacceptable that the banks do not take their social responsibility better. They must be prepared to provide short-term loans when they know that the borrower will soon receive money. In this way they contribute to rural growth. It should be in the interests of everyone, including the banks. Having said that, I have, of course, taken note of the problem and included it in the debate on the new programming period. It is not possible to make advance payments of the loans in the EU portfolio, but we are looking at whether it is possible to find a system for the assumption that the new CAP is supposed to be simpler and more flexible. This is not pre-negotiated, and we will see if there are any openings. However, on the basis of what was on the table when the Council had negotiated its position, we believe that there is a possibility. It would mean a lot if we could find a practical measure to ensure that the money that actually exists goes to what we want them to go to and to people who want to invest to keep our countryside going. Not everyone may be aware of the aid available either. Above all, one may not be aware that there is a combination of support to be applied for. I noticed that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson grazes a little bit at the Climate Klivet. She should not, because it is yet another financial tool that could contribute and top it up in these contexts. The basic requirement for receiving funding from the Climate Centre is to make an investment that contributes to increased climate benefits in rural areas. If you make an investment, handle the regulations that exist and offer, for example, more sustainable fuels, this is a fully possible source of funding in addition to the sources of funding that we have already mentioned. I do not think we should despise any source of funding at this point. I think we should be careful that we do not have a debate about not having to have the same safety requirements in rural areas as in urban areas. Sometimes the media debate breathes a bit of that, but that would be deeply unfortunate. You can apply for a delay at MSB to have more time to do what is required, and we also need to help get this information out.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-647	Madam President, I would like The banks do not assume their responsibilities," says the Government. No, and it's a year from now until the transition is complete. If funds are not available and if you see opportunities in the new CAP to deliver solutions, the government can make sure that money is paid out so that the gas station owners catch up and can continue their important activities for the whole country to live. The government says I'm snooping at the climate. No, I don't. I'm not sneezing at anything, but I find that there are a lot of funds to apply for but that it doesn't work because the sandwich owners can't sleep out with money. That's the tricky part. It doesn't matter if the funds cover 85, 90 or even 100%. This is the harsh reality. Regarding MSB and various requirements, it is important to me that we have a basic security. Another side of the coin is what those who do not have access to fuel do if they have very long distances and the gas stations disappear. Then maybe they'll store at home, and then we'll have a new problem. People should not have to drive six miles in the job or otherwise in order to be able to refuel, so my advice to the government is to come back with a proposal that will help the station owners to set so that we can continue to live, live and work in the countryside.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-651	Madam President, I would like I think there is a great consensus that we should use all the tools available as constructively as possible to help those sandwich owners who are in a tough situation. Let me note, however, that this is the result of a law adopted in 2011 and a provision from 2014, i.e. under the government of Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. I think it was a good decision, so I'm not criticising them. There is clearly a consensus that the requirements are reasonable. A long time has been given for the transition, which I think is a good thing. Money has also been set aside. Nevertheless, we see problems, and of course we should not turn a blind eye to them. We have ensured that there is so much money in the systems that is being demanded. I think we need to work together to get information on the existence of the funds. We also need to inform our regional politicians that they are actually sitting on money. They are also on investment loans, which could be a way of dealing with banks not lending in the short term. Investment loans are not meant for this, but it could work as an emergency solution. We also need to inform you that you can actually be deferred if you are in distress. Overall, many tools have been made available, and I remain open to constructive dialogue on solutions other than those we have found in the toolbox so far or whether there are ways to screw them that we have not seen – given the conditions that exist in that we have an EU regulatory framework to deal with.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-656	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson in Luleå has asked me which analysis is the basis for my assessment other than the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding the end date for rip hunting. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me on the basis of what facts, what empirical evidence and what research I have based my position that winter hunting on ripa has a negative impact on the biological conditions of the rip tribe, if I have made the position that the solid research that shows that the impact of hunting on the tribes is not considered negative plays a lesser role than the wishes of various interest groups and if I have made the position that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment plays less role than the wishes of different interest groups. It was over 20 years since a systematic review of hunting times was carried out. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has provided the Government with solid evidence. The Government has subsequently referred the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal. It is a major review, and in a decision like this, there are many different and sometimes widely differing interests to be met. As far as the rip hunting is concerned, I can see that the consultation bodies disagreed on the start of the hunt and the end of the hunt. The government came to a decision that hunting times should be harmonised, that is to say, the same in all areas where hunting is permitted. This would be earlier in Älvdalen Municipality, Jämtland County and Västerbotten and Norrbotten County above the so-called Lappland border, but later in the rest of Dalarna and in the rest of Västerbotten and Norrbotten County. The government has sought a good balance between the various interests that need to be taken into account. Overall, the process of developing new hunting times has been good and rigorous. The government has taken note of the criticism of the decision regarding the rip hunt and considers that there are grounds for some adjustments. The government therefore decided yesterday, 17 June 2021, to change your hunting time for ripa. The government's new decision means that the hunting end will still be 28 and 29 February in Älvdalen Municipality and in Jämtland County and 15 March in Västerbotten and Norrbotten County, above the so-called Lappland border. J the end of the Act in the rest of Dalarna and in the rest of Västerbotten and Norrbotten County will be February 15. The new decision also means that general hunting for ripa will continue to be allowed in Värmland, Gävleborg and Västernorrland County, with the same hunting time as previous years.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-662	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
i-dDkzn4HvpAWCikqHqUcj4	The background to the review is that through the hunting regulation, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to review every six years the hunting times that are regulated in the regulation and, if necessary, propose changes. This is the first review that has taken place since the mission was left in 2018, and in that investigation there was no doubt about the current time limit of the rip hunt to be found. On the contrary, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considered that it was possible to increase the hunting time, at least below the patchland limit. In the consultation round, the hunters' various interest organisations, the Norrbotten County Administrative Board or the Sameting had no objection to the hunt continuing until March 15, as it usually does. Well-reputed bird scientists believe that the rip tribe remains steady and definitely not threatened by hunting. In addition, natural predators are more likely to create population dips. Birdlife Sweden and Naturskyddsföreningen, whose principle for all hunting is that Swedish game should be protected if hunting is not absolutely necessary. They both claimed that it would only be possible to hunt rip until February 15th. On 6 May, it was time to take a decision on the subject. Did the government follow the line of the majority? Did they do what the local authorities thought? Did they do what the Sami wanted? The right answer is no, no and no. Did they do what the birdwatchers on Öland wanted? Answer yes. In its reply, the Government states that the Government has sought a good balance between the various interests that need to be taken into account. The Government further says that overall the process of developing new hunting times has been good and rigorous. I would like to say that this statement is not in line with the truth, Madam President. It is probably one of the most de facto decisions that this government has taken. Nevertheless, it is of course extremely gratifying that the government has recently chosen to back off the strange decision to some extent, but at the same time it is important to ensure that in future processes we do not end up in this situation again. Against this background, my question remains: what analysis was the basis for a different assessment by the Government than by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding the end date for rip hunting?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-670	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is good to say that we always thank you for the answer, no matter what it looks like. But here I mean it, actually. I would like to thank the Government very much for the answer that came yesterday with the government decision taken at that time. It is gratifying that the Government and the Government have released the prestige, that they took on board the criticism that has come and that they have changed the decision. I have previously submitted a written question to the Government, which was answered, but as I understood it, no concrete answer was given. What I asked for were specific answers. The day after I received the answer to the written question, it was time for Question Time in this House, and since Minister Nilsson was one of the ministers who were here and answered, I took the opportunity to ask the question again – what was behind the decision. The answer that came then gave a little more meat on the legs. The government said there was a balance between different interests and biological reasons. The leading and collective research on this is clear. The population of both dalripa and mountain ripa is not affected by hunting, but there are other parameters that record instead, such as predation or how the weather is during the hatching period. So there is no biological reason to shorten the rip hunt. If this is the case, the scientists are in complete agreement. It is therefore clear that there are other interests and organisations, which apparently have very good entrances to the Government Office, which have instead been involved in shaping the decision. In his reply to Question Time, the Swedish Government, Mr Nilsson, said that you cannot just listen to hunters and their organisations. Of course, we should have a broad process for this, but here we are talking about a great cultural heritage. It is about the quality of life of those living in rural areas, and it is actually about food. I note that the Minister has become well aware of the size of this issue, not least through the internal contacts that have taken place within the Social Democratic Party. There are many leading Social Democrats in the north who have been very clear in their criticisms, and I note that many trade unions have been clear in their criticism of the decision. Madam President, I would like The announcement made yesterday is therefore very gratifying. The government changes its mind, just as the Government opened up to Q & A when I asked if it would be possible to poodle and redo and do the right thing. The government said they could if the decision turned out to be wrong. It's very pleasing. As we heard earlier in Mattias Karlsson's speech, there have been slightly different views on this with the government and its expert authority. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency actually had an extension of the hunting time in its proposal, with four different dates for completion. Here was the proposal to have a common date for closure in the country. Harmonization has been a recurring word from the Government. But apparently this was not the case. I note that when it comes to the issue of the wolf that is so important to Värmland, the government is very happy to listen to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency as an expert authority, but this is clearly not the case here. The government has boasted of the process, but that process has not been good enough. Why did the government make such a wrong decision when it had such a solid basis? Why did you go against your own authority?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-681	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants for the questions. I should like to begin by saying that, when a decision of this magnitude is taken, it is preceded by a solid process. In this case, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency produced a proposal in dialogue with a large number of stakeholders. Then this question has been referred twice. Over 100 referrals have been received. If I remember correctly, we made 47 adjustments to what was the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regular proposal. For me, it goes without saying that if you send things for consultation, as you do when dealing with these kinds of questions, you do so because you really want to listen to what the consultation bodies have to say, and you weigh their views against what are the authorities' views in order to achieve a balanced balance at the end. In 45 of these 47 adjustments, I have noted that, for example, the Swedish Hunter Association says that they are happy that they have been listened to in relation to a number of these adjustments. Of course, we have listened to all stakeholders and tried to find a balanced balance all the way. I received a very clear question from Mattias Karlsson about the analysis on which the proposal was based. Of course, in the first decision we took, we looked at what it looked like and what the proposals looked like. There were requests from the consultation bodies, both for a later hunting start and for a previous hunting finish. For example, reference was made to the fact that two thirds of the hunt is conducted in the first 10 to 14 days and that the post-winter hunt on the population that has survived the winter is likely to have a greater impact on the biological condition of the species. At the same time, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposed a harmonised time but a longer time. It was the overall basis for the decision that we made. As a whole, I would like to say that this decision on hunting times, which includes a great many hunting times, was very well received. There are comments on the particularities of this from various stakeholder organisations. But it was received better than one might have expected – given how strongly emotional these issues are from many stakeholders in this context – with one exception. And it was about the hunt for ripa. There came the reaction immediately. For example, the Question Time that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson referred to was just over a week after we had made the decision. Even then we noticed that there was something in this that we might have valued wrong, given that constructive criticism actually came. There were also some non-constructive criticisms. And the tone has been somewhat raw, and I have to mark that against. But there were also constructive criticisms here that showed that we had not taken sufficient account of all hunting interests. We weighed mainly the interest in hunting against the interest in nature, and in the interest of hunting we have valued the cultural and social interest too low. But we have also valued the nutritional interest too low. This was clear to me when we began to look at, look at and weight all the referrals. In such situations, I have no prestige. I am very keen that we should have a policy in all areas, including this area, which, as far as possible, is based on facts and science and which has a reasonable balance. It was therefore not strange for me to change the decision yesterday, but I am glad that we could do it so quickly.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-686	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government. I think that both I and the Member from the Christian Democrats really appreciate the fact that prestige has not been allowed to go on this issue. But although it is gratifying that the government finally listened to the extremely strong opinion and backed back in the decision on the rip hunt to what was in force in the past, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the overall research have not been fully listened to. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency wanted the same hunting time throughout the area, i.e. an extension in the southern parts of Norrland. In its reply, the Government stated that it was important to harmonise hunting time throughout the area. Then of course the question remains: Why does the government not follow the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal? The government uses harmonisation as an excuse to shorten hunting time. Now, however, the same argument is not being used, but it falls completely away when a smaller area might have more hunting time. Another question is why the hunt for eider suddenly disappeared. According to a press release, the Government explained that it can return when an international management plan is in place. However, it might as well remain valid until the management plan was in place. My question is therefore: why was the eider hunt sacrificed in the new decision?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-689	Madam President, I would like Of course, I understand that there is a dialogue with many parties on this and that it is being consulted for a reason. It's obvious. However, it is one thing what different organisations mean and another thing what the research and expert authorities say. I would like to correct the Government's position on something she said in her previous speech on hunting. There's no hunting going on after winter. The 15th of March is very much winter in these areas where the hunt is taking place. So there is no hunting going on after winter. Who is it that says that the hunt for the spring winter affects the tribe, as I felt the Government said earlier? What is clear is that it is not the scientists who say that it is the hunting of the spring winter that particularly affects the tribe. On this they are unequivocally in agreement. It is absolutely right that the Government and the Government have valued errors in this matter. And, of course, I agree with the Government on the raw tone. If you have different opinions, you should be able to stick to the matter. There I fully support the Government. I would like to ask the Government the same question that Mattias Karlsson asked. I also noted that yesterday there was a press release proposing this change to the rip hunt. But at the same time, the eider hunt was withdrawn. Was it to give one leg to the other government party to have them on board the boat, or why could the hunt for eider not continue as before until this management plan is in place?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-695	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the question from Mattias Karlsson about why you haven't fully listened to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and why you don't fully follow the basis for this whole hunting decision, which is a very big decision with a lot of hunting times and where we didn't just make an adjustment but more than 47. Then I have to ask: Is it the opinion of Mattias Karlsson and the Moderates, and possibly Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and the Christian Democrats, that we should have taken part in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal in all parts of this hunting decision? In that case, I can only note that, for example, the Swedish Hunters' Association had felt that they lost 45 important points that they recorded and that the government did not care about. There are a large number of organisations here in addition to what has also recorded questions about this and who have thought that the government is tone deaf and not listening. In fact, I do not think that this is what you mean, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and Mattias Karlsson, but you pick out some and think that in that particular part we should follow exactly what the authorities have said. However, if I am reasonably up-to-date on what policy you normally conduct and account for, there are quite a few adjustments that you think are quite correct. If we hadn't done them, you'd have made interpellations about why we didn't listen to the organisations Y, X and Z. Nevertheless, I think this should be included in this debate. I think you should always listen to constructive criticism. I've done that, and that's why I've changed. However, changing a decision, especially this quickly after the decision has been taken, is very unusual. What happens is that you can't change just a few things without reopening the whole issue. Given that we needed to open the case so soon after we made a decision, we chose to also deal with the eider in this context. There were proposals, not least from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and other heavy organisations, which showed a poor stock situation for the species. It was shown that this is the subject of international organisations looking at the situation and demanding that we get an orderly management plan. However, the eider stock is shared with other countries, and in Sweden we share the stock mainly with Finland, Åland and Denmark. Therefore, Aewa has the task of developing a management plan for the eider throughout our area. It was announced that this would be reported in October, so when we initially discussed the issue, we thought to open and adjust when we had the management plan in place, instead of making two decisions. Now, in recent weeks, we have been given indications that it will probably not be ready and that that decision may possibly take a year. Given that we still opened the case now – and in order to avoid having to open it very many times, because it would not have been very good for any involved party – we chose to make a decision now: Given that this may be delayed, we choose to pause the hunt until there is a management plan in place. Hopefully we will receive signals from Aewa that the management plan will be in place in a reasonable future and that it will then be possible to start hunting in accordance with it. However, if we make the assessment that it will be delayed, we have also given a parallel assignment to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to develop a national management plan – or prepare to use what is Sweden's commitment in Aewa and make a national management plan out of it – as soon as we know where the issue stands. When we have a national management plan, it is my ambition to be able to hunt according to it.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-703	Madam President, I would like I use the argument with the Environmental Protection Agency because it has also been the government's argument. It was used when it came to the harmonisation of hunting times – when the hunting time was shortened – but the same argument is not used now that the hunting time could possibly have been extended in some parts of Sweden. I also believe that there are many eider hunters out there who feel that the eider hunt was sacrificed in this decision. It would have been possible to wait for the management plan before taking this decision. Hopefully there will then be, and I also understand the problem of opening up the matter several times. I would also like to say that it is extremely appreciated that the government has nevertheless put aside the prestige and chosen to make a new decision regarding the rip hunt and rip hunting of the times. I would also like to remind the Government that an interpellation under the Parliamentary Order should be answered within two weeks. My interpellation, which we are debating here today, among others, was submitted a month ago, on 21 May. On 26 May, I received information from the Ministry of Industry that the response to the interpellation would be delayed and that the debate would take place today, 18 June. The reason for the delay was stated to be previously booked arrangements. In view of the fact that yesterday, the day before this debate, the government decided to back down on the decision on riphunt s times, it is easy to suspect that the reason for the delay was not calendar shocks but rather that the government wanted to change this de facto decision.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-707	Madam President, I would like It is the case, Mr Nilsson, that other decisions in this regard have also been criticised. This applies not only to decisions about the rip hunt and what came yesterday around the eider, but also to other decisions – or partial decisions perhaps we should call it – on the question of whether hunting times have been criticised. Then perhaps the rip hunt is the biggest and heaviest part and therefore the one that has attracted the most criticism, but I note that it also applies to other parts – just so that it is clear. I note that the Government did not take advantage of what I threw out around biology and which the Government presented during Question Time. It was about the balance between biology and various stakeholders. It is very clear that biology does not record. Finally, the decision on hunting time came very late. It really had to come a lot earlier. Now it's 12 days until the new hunting year begins. A hunting year begins on July 1st, so that's where you change. It will have time to print hunting tables, and information will have time to go out so that people have the new hunting times. This means that the decision itself comes very late this time. Why is it that the decision could not come earlier? The Government has often talked about the solid process, and we note that the solid process did not last. If you have had such a solid process, you should have a good basis for decisions and be able to make a decision that comes out in time, but here you were very late. What was the basis for that? Besides that, I'd like to wish the Minister a nice weekend.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-712	Madam President, I would like In fact, I will first respond to why the interpellation debate is being held today, given what was suggested about the delay. I think it was a little brazen, let me say. If one had bothered to look in our calendars, as one might do, one would have known that the first week I was in Brussels negotiating CAP. After that, I followed the restrictions and recommendations from the Swedish Public Health Agency and the City of Stockholm, which meant that I sat in family quarantine at home for seven days. After that, we were told that there were no interpellation times in the Chamber until at the earliest that date. It is therefore the exact origin of the interpellation debate being held today. Then one may perhaps be a little flattered that the opposition believes that it is so dexterous that one can know exactly when one is able to resolve an issue with which one has tangled – and also to a specific date when one needs it in this House. I wish I could do that many times, but I have never managed to do that piece of art so far. Having said that, I also want to be clear with Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, who says that there were other decisions that were criticised. Actually, that's what I said. I said, of course, that there are points of view on the particularities of the proposals and that everything else had been strange. But not least given the explosive power in and the feelings surrounding many of these decisions, I still feel that the whole has been well received by almost everyone. So far, I have not heard anyone criticise the whole and the overall balance of this decision. Then there are comments on particulars – on individual hunting times, on individual regulations or on the fact that we have listened or not listened to a particular stakeholder, where we have sat down and struck a balance. I understand, however, that the whole is well received, and that is because we have had a solid and good process. We have also referred the question twice, which is the answer to why the decision came as late as 6 May. We were keen to try to listen as much as possible, and we have also made corrections in cases where things went wrong.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-717	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the investments in the food strategy reach Swedish farms and have an impact. The overall objectives of the food strategy are a competitive food chain where total food production increases while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. As Ann-Sofie Alm mentions, major efforts have been made within the framework of the food strategy. These include, for example, the assignments to the Swedish Agency for Growth to identify rules that impair competitiveness, growth opportunities or innovation capacity for companies in the food chain and to identify any shortcomings in transparency and application of regulations. The Swedish Agency for Growth also has the task of simplifying government contacts digitally, including by creating services for coherent guided processes. The latter assignment to the Swedish Agency for Growth was expanded this year by a mission to develop services to streamline and simplify the registration or application of permits for environmental impact activities for companies in the food chain. This was done to provide the conditions for efficient and rapid case handling. I see that these are tasks that will, in the long term, facilitate the administration of businesses in the food chain – not least for farmers, as they are affected by a large number of complex regulations. In its evaluation and follow-up of the food strategy for 2020, the National Agriculture Agency has concluded, among other things, that the value added of the food chain continues to increase and that the proportion of innovative companies is comparatively high in the food industry, trade and restaurant sector. Nevertheless, the rate of processing does not increase. In the Government Office, we are now fully working on a strategic plan for the common agricultural policy for the years 2023 to 2027. The plan shall be submitted to the European Commission for approval in December 2021. During the spring, the Government has submitted a proposal to the Riksdag that includes proposals for a new law prohibiting unfair trade practices in the purchase of agricultural and food products. The Act implements Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair trading practices between undertakings in the agricultural and food chain. Legislation is expected to strengthen the position and bargaining power of agriculture in the food chain and thus increase the profitability of primary producers. The new Act is proposed to enter into force on 1 November 2021. The National Agriculture Agency has the task of monitoring the development of the food chain and evaluating the results of the food strategy. The Swedish Agency for Growth has the task of coordinating the work of the Food Strategy. Through, among other things, these two missions together with the long-term efforts of the food strategy, I feel confident that we can monitor the development of the food chain and ensure that the efforts of the food strategy have an impact.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-724	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for taking the time to be in this House and responding to this never-ending story. There is no human being who thinks that you can get a long new Volvo V90 at the price of a used Renault Clio – except when it comes to food. Then people seem to think that you can pick up a foreign piece of meat from the freezer counter and get that lovely feeling that it tastes divinely good and that the body is simultaneously filled with pure original power from soils that generations have cared for tenderly and for a long time. It is like the price tag, which is like a large imported fig leaf, suddenly conceals climate threats, antibiotic resistance threats and the need for domestic food production through war and crisis. Another thought in the same class is that you can feed on cheap imported vegan food while you can go out to the country for recreation and believe that service and open landscapes with biodiversity should only be there to enjoy. It is possible to minimize such thoughts, but it is serious that we do not value more the resources, knowledge and talent of our food producers. If we do not value them higher, we give priority to the well-being, health and profitability of our farmers, and we will continue to lose our primary producers on a large scale. That is why, Madam President, I have raised this debate with the Minister. I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, but my answer to that is that it is not good enough. Farmers in rural areas have still not seen anything of our Swedish food strategy at farm level, but, on the contrary, the regulatory burden on them increases every year. The fact that the Swedish Agency for Growth has been commissioned to reduce the regulatory burden – and money to do this – does not help as long as the farmer does not see any regulatory simplifications. I live in the more beautiful part of Sweden, near Norway. We have worked there for a very long time with border barriers in various forums. We should also have such a forum for regulatory simplification for Swedish agriculture. We should introduce a regulatory simplification commission, otherwise we will soon have no farmers left in our country. Madam President, I would like I have promised to work for the safety of our country. The fact that Sweden can produce food for its food supply is a basic security, but we must politically facilitate everything that we can facilitate in this House and at government level in order for this to happen. It is pure injustice that Swedish farmers produce the most high-quality food but only have the conditions for a rather poor economic result. It's a bit like producing a long new V90 but only getting paid for a used Renault Clio. The question remains: When will Swedish farmers at farm level see that our Swedish food strategy gives effect to the farmers so that they can produce more?
i-Ps8yP6dZQ6LyXQCEqjWvKM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, for the question! The issue is important in many ways. I would like to say that by investing in the green industries in the long term and strategically, we are not only creating the conditions for jobs and growth in rural areas, but that this is also quite rightly given the climate challenge we have. These are sectors that can in a real way be involved and also contribute to other sectors' opportunities for transition. Therefore, it feels very good that for the first time ever we have a food strategy in place in Sweden. A strategy is by its very nature long-term, and therefore the objectives of the strategy are also long-term. Much of what is the basis of the strategy is about increasing the profitability of agriculture – I think this is what the Swedish farmer wants most of all, not least given the description that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm gave, which it is easy to agree with. There are many ideas here, both among consumers and among others. There is now an investment in research and innovation. We are more than doubling the funds that the state is adding to research and innovation, precisely in relation to the green industries, with the latest FOI bill. The collaborative arenas created by the food strategy mean that large and small players in different parts of the value chain, which are different from each other, can together help to find innovative solutions, not only in terms of product development but also in terms of new business models and other things. We see that this is bearing fruit here and now. It is also about investments in exports. That you have a good profitability and a higher processing rate, which is a expressed wish in the strategy, and that you do not have to produce quality as a Volvo but get paid as for a Clio is based on getting sales in a large market that is prepared to pay for premium products, which Sweden actually has and which can be produced on a larger scale than only within Sweden's borders. The strategic effort to help more companies, especially SMEs, out on the world market is very important. I would like to say that this is already visible to the farmers, although I understand that they find it frustrating to have rules and such pieces. In the near future, we have launched a number of projects to make it easier. Nevertheless, we see that we do actually have positive figures on most of the agricultural issues at the moment. Despite the pandemic, exports have increased by 6% from last year. Almost all types of production have increased their value during this period. Even milk weighing was, for the first time on forever, greater in the first quarter of this year than it has been in the past. I won't say it's a trend break, because it's not possible to say after a weighing up, but this wasn't expected. There too we see that there is a demand for Swedish products. Despite many misconceptions, which I think we all do a little bit of when we shop, we have conscious consumers who actually contribute and make a difference right now. The industry itself took the initiative on the label from Sweden. It has had an enormous impact, much greater and faster impact than anything I think we could have politically legislated or regulated. Consumers who have to choose from the shelf can make a simple choice. When you directly see that a product is produced in Sweden, we see that you make that choice to a large extent. I believe that this type of incentive and conditions to do more of it is an untapped potential in the further work on developing the strategy.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-743	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I fully agree that the power here lies with consumers, but we also have a huge power to influence the conditions. When it comes to profitability, the peasant practice is quite simple. Mother nature and the weather offer the conditions that exist. And just as the Minister says, let us really hope that this is a trend that is started and not just a single phenomenon. It is not at all long ago that we had the 2018 drought and a 50% harvest reduction. Therefore, I think it is wise for us in the food strategy to focus on long-term decisions and allow our food producers to have such a profitability that they can invest in the future, for example in water storage for years of drought. But Swedish farmers are obliged to comply with a comprehensive legislative and regulatory framework regarding environmental issues, animal health, animal welfare, food safety, land use, water protection, work environment and chemical use – I can make a fairly long list. Environmental housekeeping has shown that Swedish farmers' regulatory burden has increased by 120 per cent in 20 years. Swedish farmers deliver safe, safe and nutritious food, which hopefully Swedish consumers have now discovered so that they use their power. But we must not stifle producers under regulatory burdens. That is why I would like to know, Madam President, how the Minister and the Government take a position on the simplification commission proposed by the Moderates. Another very important question for the Swedish food strategy to become a reality is how we tackle the violent animal activism. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister what measures the government intends to take to ensure that zero tolerance prevails against these activists. The whole government must see the seriousness of food producers being threatened with life, frightened to silence and terrorized until they are no longer able to carry on their business. The Minister of Defence could confirm that Swedish agriculture is a self-evident and safe part of our total preparedness. The Minister of Justice should be able to put sharp proposals on Parliament's table on increased time limits and tougher penalties for those directly involved in the action, but also those who have helped. Madam President, I would like When does the Minister think we can classify violent animal activism as pure terrorism? I would also like to know how the Minister intends to move forward in order to achieve zero tolerance against violent animal activism.
i-HvMxCwkLqTUr1r62qiSFYP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, for follow-up questions! If we start with the rules, I think that we are all politically very passionate about being able to make it easier to be an entrepreneur, regardless of the industry. However, it is easier said than done many times, not least for the group that works in the green industries and then perhaps mainly those who work with food production, i.e. Sweden's farmers. It is, of course, due to a great many things, including the handling of food. Food should be safe, it should be traceable, you work with animals and we have animal welfare legislation. You work in activities that are in close harmony with nature, which means that you need to ensure that emissions and other things are regulated. I think that's hard to get away from. I also believe that consumers increasingly expect what they buy to be produced safely and of good quality. However, I believe that a great deal can be done to make it easier. Just to have activities that are good doesn't mean that you can't work with standardized processes, that you need to search in many places and so on. All those things are things that I think Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm thinks that a regulatory simplification commission would work with. I don't mind. But I can imagine that in principle all the assignments that such a committee or committee would post are placed at the Swedish Agency for Growth, at the Swedish Board of Agriculture specifically linked to food producers and at the Minister for Economic Affairs in general for all nutrition. I am happy to talk about concrete ways of making things easier, and I think we have the same level of ambition. I can also say that we have the same level of ambition in terms of zero tolerance of animal activism. I assume that it is a matter of course for most people that this should be the case. This government has made it clear that this is not acceptable and that we should have put in place measures to tackle it. Now I do not know the status, because I am not the one dealing with this, but I think we have matters on the way here but which have not yet passed. It is about everything from allowing camera surveillance on a farm, for example, to detect, prevent and arrest individuals. However, it is also a question of reviewing criminal offences and penalties in this context. Then, of course, the area of the Minister of Justice is much larger than just this issue. We have gang crime and other things on the agenda that make very many legislative proposals coming now, and this is part of them. Here we can see that there are very few individuals, but they cause a lot of damage. And let me be clear: I have no acceptance or tolerance whatsoever for violating traders in the way that is sometimes done. Opinions should of course be allowed, but they should be done in a completely different way and not like this. I want to ask a question back to Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm. I understand that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm shares my view that one of the most important things in this context is to create profitability for primary producers and for small operators in the chain. Here we have the Food Strategy, and I have explained a little bit about different parts of it. But another proposal, which is perhaps the most important from a profitability perspective, is on the implementation of the UTP Directive. There the government submitted a proposal to the Riksdag which the Moderates first said no to, because they did not listen to what neither the LRF nor the Food businessmen said about the importance of this. I have now taken note of the acceptance of this. But I'd love to know how the Moderates thought there.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-758	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your question. We Moderates are never worse than that we can change when we find out things that change the picture and the basis on which we stand. It is important to do so here. I would also like the Minister and the Government to be a little more responsive when it comes to speeding up the whole Food Strategy, so that profitability ends up at farm level much faster, because it is becoming a matter of urgency. I understand that the Minister believes he understands the Moderates' proposal regarding the Regulatory Simplification Commission. I would just like to point out that we do not believe that it is the Swedish Agency for Growth that should make the regulatory simplifications. Here you have to work with follow-up and analysis together with the parties in the industry, because they are the ones involved and it is they who can tell you what is wrong. If you go through Tillväxtverket it is almost as an excuse, because they are not daily in the business. Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask a question about environmental permits. Today it takes an average of three years to get an environmental permit tested. Renhav at home in Sotenäs municipality is a school example of how it should not be done. I hope that the Minister will be able to take note of their stories at a later date. This is urgent and urgent, because our farmers must not stop producing food. It is a vital question.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-763	Madam President, I would like When the questions are urgent and exciting, time is not enough. I have great respect for that, but I think that we might be able to speak on these issues outside the Chamber as well. I will start with the last question, because that is, of course, an important part. It is about creating legitimacy for the work that we are doing and that we can show that we take seriously the problem descriptions that come up here and try to find ways to solve them. On this particular example, I said in my first speech that this year we have given an assignment to the Swedish Agency for Growth to look at how to streamline and simplify the way for companies in the food chain to register or apply for permits for environmental impact activities. It is specifically pointed out given the problem we have seen. It is about providing the conditions for efficient and fast case management. I assume that the authority will do so in dialogue with those concerned, because that is the way to get the best basis for decision-making. I can say that it is great that everyone is willing to take on constructive criticism. It is good that the Moderates finally accepted UTP. I can only hope for the same theme. Profitability is regulated by many things. We have the strategy and everything we have described in it. Much of it is long-term, and some are short-term. Perhaps the most important issue for the industry was UTP. Let's get it in place. It changes the power conditions so that you can get better paid for the quality you produce – super important. But we also have the feeding and the proposal to be able to regulate it when the damage to agriculture is too great if we are unable to solve the problem of cooperation. There the Moderates also say no. I realise that I cannot ask Ann-Sofie Alm a question about this, but I had hoped that we could have a constructive discussion on all the elements that affect the conditions of agriculture. It's about both creating profitability and wanting and being able to make the valuable contribution that agriculture is making to ensure that we all get high-quality food on the table every day.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-769	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure Swedish food security for the Swedish wild boar administration. The issue of wild boar is highly topical, and it is extremely urgent to address the problems caused by wild boars. In order to make hunting for wild boar easier and more efficient, the government has decided to allow night guidelines and moving lighting when hunting for wild boars. The Government has also submitted a bill on 22 April 2020 21:183, to the Riksdag on the feeding of game, which allows the county administrative boards to decide on a ban or conditions for the feeding of game in individual cases. The so-called wild boar package of the Food Strategy, decided by the Government in 2020, will contribute to more wild boar meat reaching the market by facilitating the meat's path to consumers. The Finnish Food Authority recently presented a proposal for national legislation to enable hunters to deliver wild boar meat directly to consumers. As many game strains continue to increase, or remain at a high level, continued adaptive game management is important. Last year the shootings amounted to more than 146 000 wild boars, an increase of almost 34 000 wild boars shot compared to the previous year. A national management plan for wild boar is important for the objective of a controlled wild boar strain reducing crop and land damage and the number of traffic accidents involving wild boars. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has the overall responsibility for our management, has, on behalf of the Government, developed a national management plan for wild boar where results and action targets are stated. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency must monitor at least every three years, starting in 2022, the performance targets in the management plan. I consider it extremely urgent that the damage caused by the rest be reduced and have therefore commissioned the county administrative boards to revise their management plans in line with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's overall management plan. For me, the issue of Swedish food security is very important, as is the limitation of the damage caused by wild game.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-775	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. The wild boars cause nearly 700,000 traffic accidents every year. They represent a significant destruction of capital in the form of broken lawns on football fields, golf courses and in villa gardens – not to mention agriculture. The Swedish boar strain must be radically reduced. Wild boars can no longer be marginalised as an isolated rural problem or even an isolated Swedish rural problem. They have simply become too many, and it is now quite clear that farmers and hunters alone cannot solve the problem. I am pleased that we in Parliament agree with the Government on the improvements that have been made in the hunting area regarding boars, for example when it comes to what the Minister said: night guidelines and moving lighting in hunting. I firmly believe, Madam President, that wild boars fit better on a coal bed grill than in the grill of a car. I am also pleased that the Moderates have pushed the issue of making it easier for hunters to deliver wild boar meat directly to consumers. There is no hunter chasing animals without wanting to take care of the animal, and therefore reliefs of both costs and administration with the testing of the meat will make that more meat comes on the plate and that the wild boar strain can reduce slightly. Madam President, I would like The wild boars are bouncing up a lot of capital for our farmers. SLU estimated in 2015 that it was approximately SEK 1.1 billion. Since then, the wild boar strain and the cost of the severance increase have increased dramatically. I have the great happiness of living in the small beautiful part of Sweden, in western Sweden, which lies between two coasts – we have the West Sea, and we have the Lake Vänerhavet. So I live in the borderland of Norway. Norway is currently raging against us Swedes because our dramatically increased wild boar strain wells across the border without them being able to stop it. Of course, it causes serious damage on the other side of the border. Norway has classified wild boar as an invasive species. I therefore wonder, Madam President: what does the Minister think about doing as Norway and classifying wild boar as an invasive species? Or what answers does the Minister intend to give to the Norwegians, who are currently directing anger against their neighbouring country, against us? I think that perhaps there may be reason to encourage more hunting of wild boars through economic incentives to hunters and landowners in northern Västra Götaland, in the borderland of Norway.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-784	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, for the question! Now all I feel is that I have to counter when it comes to who lives most beautiful in the country. I live in Halland, which is Sweden's front page. I would also like to say this in this context. One of us has the wrong number in the papers, and I think I am right: 7 000 wildlife accidents a year are caused by wild boars. There is quite a difference, so I felt that I still wanted to mark it. Having said that, this is, of course, a huge problem. There are enormous costs both in the context of road accidents and in the context of the damage caused to agricultural land by wild boars. There is no doubt about it. That is why we have also taken a large number of measures, and we are actually ticking off with new measures as soon as we have quality assured them to put on the table. One of the first decisions I made as a minister was to put forward proposals that, in principle, wild boars could be hunted around the clock, all year round, with the exception of the period during which sows have young. Apart from that, it's actually quite possible at any time. There is a need to link incentives to hunt boars. There I share Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm's analysis: It is based on, especially if you want to increase the incentive, that there is provision for the meat. That is why, quite soon after that, we gave a number of assignments to the Swedish Food Safety Agency and others to come up with proposals on what measures were needed to enable us to realise more wild boar meat directly to consumers. It is both about the individual hunter being able to sell certain volumes directly and about passing it through game facilities. It is also about what is needed for the public sector to be able to drive some of the development, for example through school meals serving wild game to early teach our children that game is a climate-smart and good option to choose. I think a lot of people think that wild boar meat isn't very good. I also think that a lot of people maybe sometime – it was for me – have got a piece and tried to cook it, and that was not at all good. Wild boars and wild boars demand, like everything else, that you know what you do when you cook it. We therefore need to train both to create demand and to make it possible to channel these systems. My picture is that we now have the necessary proposals for this. Perhaps the most important thing in this context is to ensure that we have records. The main reason for registers is traceability. Here we come to the last proposal on which we decided only a few weeks ago, namely that we are now subsidising trichinae and cesium tests from the state side. It is an important part of this, not because the cost is high, but because it really shows how important it is that there are no obstacles, neither large nor small, to have a policy of bringing down the tribes. It is central and urgent. Then, of course, I have noticed Norway's irritation with the large boar tribe in Sweden. I can certainly respect it. But to start with this with invasive species, Sweden decided back in 1987 that we should not see wild boar as an invasive species, given that we had it in our fauna historically. Invasive species means that you do not have or have had a species in your fauna and decide that it will not enter. Somewhere it feels a little bit like that train's gone. When it comes to the question of Norway and what I say to Norway, I say this, and now I am slightly expanding it from just dealing with wild boar: I am deeply concerned about Nordic cooperation and its ability to deal with a crisis. I think it is more of a concern to prevent commuting both for work and cross-border trade as has happened during the pandemic than perhaps the boars themselves are. The Norwegians, however, are welcome to come here and hunt them down.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-794	Madam President, I would like I'm sure the Norwegians will be happy to come here and hunt boars. We used to talk about feeding. The Swedish food strategy has so far been a bit like a bait but unfortunately only left the authorities in Sweden. We have not yet seen the increased profitability at farm level. It is therefore, of course, important to ensure that pests and predators are covered by legislation that makes it possible to run soil and agriculture in Sweden with good profitability. What makes increased food production and better profitability difficult, we must work together, both in here and in the Government Office, to ensure that it disappears. The wolf is another aggravating factor in the profitability of animal husbandry and safety in loose dog hunting and in order to avoid watching nights through and guarding lambs and sheep. We Moderates want to reduce the wolf strain to the lowest possible level that is decided, that is 170 animals. The same is true of wild boars: When they become too many, they do great damage, so the hunt needs to be facilitated. It needs to be easy to get rid of the meat, as the Minister says. When it comes to training to increase demand, we have all heard that an apple a day does good for the stomach. That message works. Getting an interest in food from the local area at a young age is very important, so maybe we can create a new slogan: There should be peace and quiet in school but be wild on the menu. Could it be something, maybe? Madam President, I would like In the beautiful coastal areas – the most beautiful, where I live – lies the municipality of Munkedal. It is not large to the surface, but we have a fjord that goes straight through the municipality and also almost 500 lakes. Around these lakes grows an impenetrable reed. It's pretty hard for hunters to get through, even in the daytime. Therefore, it would greatly facilitate hunters and landowners if they could use drones with a camera in search of wild boars. I would therefore like to ask the Government how it sees facilitating wild boar hunting by using a camera drone. Madam President, I would like It is clear that Swedish farmers need better competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries' farmers. From a political point of view, we must be able to agree on this and help instead of overturning. The basis is that profitability must increase. If farmers have to plow down big money that bad game management causes, we have failed. We Moderates have proposed a regulatory simplification commission because it is necessary. We have also proposed, and we have received the support of the majority here in Parliament, to move game conservation issues from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to a new wildlife conservation agency. It has been quite a long time since that decision was taken here in Parliament, so I would like to ask the Minister what the planning for the establishment of this new wildlife conservation agency is like, what is the state of play and when we can see this wildlife conservation agency on the ground?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-801	Madam President, I would like I think that there is not much that is as simple in Swedish politics as to think that we have too much boar. Actually, I don't know anyone-- at least I haven't met anyone so far-- who doesn't share that picture. I also think that the government has shown very clearly that it is prepared to act. Of course, we make sure that it is quality assured, legally assured decisions that we make, and it takes its little time. We are making sure that there are records and that we are not sloppy about something that can be harmful to consumers' health. Bad decisions could jeopardise the positive development that we want here, so it is a bit important. We're working on those questions. I am also very open in all the debates and dialogues I have when I meet stakeholders with the fact that I am happy to take in new proposals. I have noted that the LRF, I think, highlights the proposal on drones, and we are looking at it. It is associated with great difficulties but is absolutely worth looking at, perhaps. The only proposal I have said blankly no to is actually Scots money, for the simple reason that all the evidence from other countries where this has been tested on other species shows that the end result is more of what you have Scots money on. Then you get completely opposite incentives. Then you want to raise to be able to shoot off and pick up a money. The most obvious example is when trying to do this with rattlesnakes in India. It was a complete disaster. It's a tool that's been tried and doesn't work, and that's why we shouldn't have it. Let us also discuss what options are available. If they are reasonable and appropriate, we will introduce them. One of the issues that is important in this context is the feeding directive, which I mentioned in our previous debate. Why don't I pick this up, too? The LRF, which is the organisation that represents the farmers who say that they have enormous damage to their property, believes that this is very costly and that this feeding thing does not always work. The government therefore first sent a proposal to the parliament, which was voted down, to ban feeding, from which it could then make exceptions. That's what Parliament said no to. Among other things, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm's party did. They said: We understand that this is a problem, but we want a reverse order. We want it to be allowed, but it should be possible to impose bans. Then we made a proposal according to this principle, a proposal that the Riksdag had ordered, and sent it to the Riksdag. Then the Moderates still say no. In the previous interpellation debate, I could not ask Ann-Sofie Alm about this, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask her: What are the motives for not listening to the peasants? Of course, the law and the proposal that is on the table should primarily be put together – but in cases where it does not work with collaboration, county boards should be able to say that, under certain conditions and in certain areas for certain species of animals, given the damage that exists to either traffic or agriculture, it is prohibited during this period or under these conditions. What is the reason why the Moderates do not agree with this proposal given the high tailings that I note that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm has around Moderate ambition and will in this area? It is probably one of the more concrete things that could make a difference. As far as the Wildlife Agency is concerned, we have debated it several times before. I am thinking that I may have the opportunity to say something more about it in my final reply, but the answer to the question is the same as the last time we discussed it that there is a preparation going on and that there is, to my knowledge, no funding at the moment. I have noted that neither do I in the Moderates' movements.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-810	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to the Minister for his reply! With regard to the question put by the Minister, the proposal that came back to Parliament is not legally certain, and it goes wrong. The short answer is that we would like to see a bigger investigation to make sure this is right. I think we need to work together on that question. When it comes to game management and not being financed, you can also see it as an order from the Riksdag because there is a decision on this. It usually works out with funding if a government really wants to implement what the Riksdag has decided. Madam President, I would like In fact, I believe that Prime Minister Jennie Nilsson has very good intentions. I also understand that it is extremely difficult to try to improve and act in the right direction when you are locked and tied up in a government with the Green Party. It is perhaps an extenuating circumstance when it comes to the fact that we do not get there faster by getting to profitability at farm level, but that does not help the Swedish farmers. Here we need to work more long-term and together in broad political agreements that are sustainable over time also within the wild boar management. I think this is far too important a question of Swedish food production to be held accountable and to have to make shudder in relation to ideological input into a government that might actually want to go another way. Swedish food security is incredibly important. It is vital now and in the future.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-816	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to make it clear to Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm that the whole government is behind the food strategy that is on the table to strengthen Swedish food production. The whole government is also behind the other initiatives taken, often based on farmers' perceived problems with profitability or other related to UTP directives or feeding systems and which are sent to the Riksdag. I can also say that it is good to think about the legal certainty of a proposal, but now this proposal is a proposal that has passed the Law Council before it has arrived here. I also note that the Moderates do not have any major problems with taking committee initiatives and sometimes propose that legislation be decided directly in Parliament. For everyone who, like me and, I think, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, is a bit of old school politician– we are politicians because we really want to change the world for the better and be constructive in all parts– is the political climate we have in general at the moment troublesome. I feel that game theory is what governs. I am surprised and disappointed at the Moderates both in relation to the UTP and the Feeding Directive. I think these are issues that we have talked about, had under-discussed discussions about and listened to, and then they do not stand for it. If we are now to speculate on what is the reason why other parties are doing what they are doing, I cannot help thinking that you have orders from above that no matter what the government sends to Parliament, you should convict it if you can – whether it is good or not and whether it affects the industry or not. It is not a climate that benefits Sweden's farmers. I hope that together we can find a way back to a better and more constructive political work aimed at being able to disagree on the substance in the last row, but above all to put Sweden's best interests first.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-821	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me whether I will work to ensure that Sweden supports the proposal presented in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, for an exemption from the intellectual property acquis regarding vaccines against covid-19 and whether I will work to ensure that Sweden, in cooperation with other Nordic countries, for example, will have a joint vaccine production and a joint vaccine research. I share Delgado Vara's view that the primary objective is to combat the pandemic. It is a question of international solidarity, and no one is safe until everyone is safe. Sweden has therefore been a driving force in ensuring global access to covid-19 vaccines, both politically and financially. This shows not least the commitment within the international vaccine cooperation C ovax, where Sweden with a contribution of 2.4 5 billion is the world's largest financier per capita. On 25 May 2021, the Government also presented a plan to increase the number of donated doses to at least three million to contribute to the EU's 100 million dose donation target in 2021. The government will continue to work to ensure that we get as much vaccine as possible to as many people as possible as quickly as possible. However, the main obstacle today is not intellectual property but rather the lack of production capacity and export restrictions applied by several countries. Intellectual property law already allows countries under the TRIPs Agreement to use so-called compulsory licences for domestic production during public health crises, like a pandemic. However, countries have made use of this possibility. One explanation for this is that several vaccines are technically demanding and difficult to produce. Even during the pandemic, intellectual property has been an important driver for research. With this in mind, the European Union is not ready today to completely disregard the role that intellectual property has played in the fact that in record time vaccines have been developed for you which can now be distributed. The removal of patent protection does not provide any more vaccines here and now. The EU has now developed its own trade and health initiative within the WTO and has therefore proposed a way forward to increase the production of vaccines. These include reducing export restrictions and facilitating the use of the compulsory licensing system in the TRIPs Agreement. However, we welcome the statement made by the EU Heads of State or Government in May that the EU should be open to discussing the impact of a so-called waiver on global vaccine availability. To ensure a global supply of vaccines, we need trade that works. Throughout the crisis, we in Sweden have opposed export restrictions both within the EU and globally. Countries holding on to vaccines must share. We have therefore put forward our own constructive proposals within the EU on how to remove barriers to trade in medicines and medical goods. The EU is one of the world's largest vaccine producers, and according to the European Commission, over 6 00 million doses of vaccine against c ovid-19 have been produced in the EU. Fifty percent of these 3,00 million doses have been exported to more than 90 different countries. At the same time, other major producer countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom have different trade restrictions on vaccines. The new Director-General of the WTO, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has taken a recognised initiative to bring together world leaders and the vaccine industry to find solutions to the issue of adequate vaccine availability and distribution by, for example, training and relaying skills. Her so-called third way has received general support. In my opinion, the aim is to pass on skills and increase production capacity, to support Sweden's and the EU's initiatives on trade and health and to resist export restrictions. The proposal of the Director-General of the WTO is thus closely established in Sweden. If we are to get out of the pandemic, we also need to equip ourselves for the future. The global crisis that has hit us has made it clear that international cooperation is needed in order to tackle future pandemics quickly. The government sees opportunities to improve pandemic preparedness and at the same time strengthen the Nordic region as a global leading life science centre and life sc in the ence region through a deeper Nordic cooperation. Therefore, Sweden initiated a Nordic Ministerial Dialogue on 9 June, where I and Minister Baylan, together with Nordic colleagues, discussed the possibilities for Nordic collaboration for long-term enhanced innovation and production capacity for vaccines and biological drugs. Sweden presented to the meeting a proposal that countries' respective innovation authorities should jointly conduct a pilot study in 2021. The ministerial meeting instructed officials to develop a more detailed proposal together.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-833	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Hallberg for his reply. I think it is positive that we are looking at how we could cooperate on vaccine production in the Nordic countries. In fact, it was also a proposal we made with the Nordic Green Left in the Nordic Council. I have previously written an interpellation regarding patent rights and covid-19 vaccine. One reason why I am referring to this again is that I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Covax system, in which the rich countries share their vaccines jointly and severally, is a failed system. Of the 2.5 billion doses of vaccine that have so far been administered worldwide, Covax has accounted for less than 4%. Only 0.8 per cent of the population in low-income countries has received their first dose. These figures have been updated today. Yes, Sweden's contribution is important. But this is actually a structural problem. There are studies showing that if the right groups had been distributed globally, the mortality caused by the virus would have halved. Moreover, production is still insufficient and distribution is inadequate. This is where patent rights play a role. It is not intended that only high-income countries that have vaccine production or can afford should be those that are largely vaccinated. What we are seeing now is that new variants of the virus are spreading rapidly. There is of course a risk that more variants, more deadly ones, will arise. It is therefore important to increase production. For that we need not only one solution, but several. Covax is a way, but it is not fair or effective. What is needed is action along the entire production chain, so that production does not stop because of restrictions and so on. However, we also need to remove legal and contractual barriers that exist to allow more countries to produce vaccines. Having a plan for this for the next pandemic is something that needs to be implemented. We cannot allow global public health to depend on whether or not patent rights are paused. The government has had several opportunities to support the proposal to pause patent rights but has repeatedly chosen to say no, while country after country realises that there is a need for a widening of production and distribution and is therefore changing sides with regard to patent rights, such as the USA, France and today also the European Parliament. Although the European Parliament voted to pause patent rights, the European Commission and the Swedish Government oppose this. The Minister gives the same arguments as the European Commission, i.e. that intellectual property rights do not lead to increased production of vaccines needed to counteract covid-19. But the truth is that right now there are manufacturers with the capacity to produce more vaccines and other drugs at factories in Bangladesh, Canada, Denmark and India, to name a few countries. But they cannot contribute because they do not have the right licenses. Patents are thus an obstacle to them here and now. Instead of trying to update the compulsory licensing system, it is easier to go on India's and South Africa's proposal to pause patent rights.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-839	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas and I fully agree that the vaccine is our way out of the pandemic and that we must be fully supportive in this situation. Of course, it is only when the whole world is vaccinated that we are all safe. The fact that we are all contributing to the fight against pandemics is a matter of international solidarity. That is why Sweden, as I mentioned earlier, has opposed export restrictions since the outbreak of the pandemic, which make distribution more difficult. It is also an important issue. One can be proud that the EU has exported half of its production to the world. However, there are also strong voices in the EU to prevent this – first, the EU will ensure that all citizens in the EU get a share of the production that takes place there, and then it will be possible to export. This is the wrong way to go. Sweden and a few other countries in the EU have recently voted against the extension of these export restrictions. It is also a question of solidarity. As far as Covax cooperation is concerned, I agree with Delgado Varas that there is absolutely room for improvement of the system and that it is urgent. That is the dialogue I have with the pharmaceutical companies, Madam President. It is a matter of putting pressure, together with the pharmaceutical companies, various states and regions and the WTO, so that Covax cooperation works better. It's not perfect today, but that's what we have. We must have an international system in order to be able to contribute and distribute the grants that exist. Sweden is, as I said, the world's largest donor per capita. The pandemic is an emergency, Madam President. We wouldn't be standing here today without a mask if we hadn't had the vaccine. In fact, we would not have had this opportunity to ease restrictions without the vaccine, which has been developed at record speed. A year ago we thought it would probably take three, four or up to five years to get a vaccine in place. Now we have had large, strong pharmaceutical companies that, with the strength they have built up in the companies, have managed to produce vaccines quickly, in fact, in less than a year. It's record-breaking. These are complex and new production techniques, especially with regard to the current Pfizer and Modern Vaccines in Sweden. This means that it is also complicated to produce these new vaccines. Then I come to the question of releasing the patent protection of pharmaceutical companies and going too far there. We will certainly discuss whether intellectual property protection can be adjusted at the moment, because it is not absolute. We believe that the concerns raised in the WTO discussion can be addressed through flexibility. We need to review whether compulsory licences and such mechanisms work. So far, however, the possibility of compulsory licences has not been used to the extent that it should. Many believe that the process is too complex and needs to be simplified. There I agree with Lorena Delgado Varas. This should not be an obstacle. But we also need to ensure that we train countries that have production capacity so that they can distribute but above all produce this vaccine, which is complicated. In fact, there are pharmaceutical companies that have voluntarily released their patents. But it has not yet been possible to start the production of these, such as Moderna's drugs, because it is such a complex process. This is a difficult question. I fully agree that we should be solidarity-based, but there are no simple answers. If we drop too much patent protection, we are in a much more difficult situation in the next pandemic when it comes to making pharmaceutical companies dare to risk as much as it is financial to produce a vaccine in record time.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-846	Madam President, I would like I agree partly with the Minister's description, but not entirely. The truth is that a pause in patent rights would lead not only to increased production, where more can contribute, but also to an increase in technology transfer and exports without fear of restrictions. I'd like to take this opportunity to break a myth. The temporary abandonment of the patent monopoly will have a negative impact on any future innovation in the development of vaccines and medicines, it is claimed. Pharmaceutical companies and their lobbies argue that abandoning such monopoly rights during a devastating global pandemic would create problems in terms of promoting innovation, endangering future medical innovation and making us more vulnerable to disease. But it is not true that scientists would have no interest in developing lifesaving vaccines and medicines without the promise of a patent monopoly. I think that this issue needs to be further investigated. I cannot help but stress that public funds are what have driven the development of medicines, vaccines and technologies needed to treat covid-19. Public money should be used for the public good and not primarily to facilitate and increase the profits of pharmaceutical companies. Nor has the European Commission called for pharmaceutical companies to be better at refraining from using public funds or in any way giving the public money invested back to the people. It must be pointed out how much the States have invested in the development of vaccines. It is not that the pharmaceutical companies have been responsible for the development of the vaccines. On the other hand, they have been very good at applying the research and starting production. There, our companies here in Sweden, for example, have done a great job. But the development of vaccines and drugs is usually publicly funded. That must be included in the discussion.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-851	Madam President, I would like That is quite right, as Lorena Delgado Varas says. It has been a collaboration with public funds and the private funds that exist in the pharmaceutical companies to quickly finance the vaccine development that has gone so fast. At this very moment, it is a joint risk taking by states, the European Union and the European pharmaceutical companies. There would have been no one who would have been able to draw on the expertise of applied research mentioned by Lorena Delgado Varas and develop the effective vaccines if the pharmaceutical companies had not been there at the bottom. We have been involved in funding it from governments with public funds. But it is based on the fact that we have a number of pharmaceutical companies that are viable and capable of action and which co-finance this. It is an interdependence, as Delgado Varas also describes. I would like to stress that one assumes the other. Public funds have been important in the development process. I do not think we really disagree on the issue itself. We need to be flexible at this point. We need to look at all kinds of solutions. I stress, as I have often done in this context, that it is a matter of having a dialogue with the pharmaceutical companies, the European Commission in this case and perhaps also with individual governments. It's about trying to find a solution together. That is precisely the solution pursued by the newly appointed Director-General of the WTO. She is now having discussions with the industry. At the moment, cooperation and licensing are taking place at a global level. That is where we have to put it to train the production units that are around the world and also set up new production units in Africa and Asia where there is no near-production of vaccines. These dialogues are also conducted with companies globally on, for example, licensing for Astra Zeneca and Johnson & Johnson in India, South Africa and Russia. This is an example of something that I think is absolutely crucial at this point. It's urgent. The WTO may be sitting on the key to what the Director-General of the WTO calls the third way. It has even been decided to open text-based negotiations involving the so-called waiver proposals of South Africa and India. The EU is ready to discuss all proposals. The European Union must be in this situation, and this also applies to the Waiver proposal. The Swedish Government is behind this. It is about seeing what concrete effects a so-called waiver, a temporary removal of patent law, can have on global vaccine availability. It is important to raise it to a global level, a multilateral level, within the framework of the WTO. What Sweden does is important. What the EU does is even more important, because it is bigger. But it is above all about what we do globally. There the European Commission is very focused on working within the framework of the WTO. The European Commission recently presented a constructive proposal in May. This is a broad approach, as is the WTO's response to the Corona crisis. That proposal is well in line with Swedish interests. Madam President, I would like The last word has not been said here, but we must be flexible. I want to get back to this. To force the removal of intellectual property rights against the will of pharmaceutical companies may, I believe, damage in the long term. This requires dialogue within the framework of multilateral cooperation.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-865	Madam President, I would like Dialogues have been held for a very long time. I am thinking mainly of the HIV medicines that needed to be produced globally. There the pharmaceutical companies were not willing to release the patents. Many health care organisations, medical organisations and countries point out that this is still one of the bones of increased production and preparation for future crisis plans. The so-called third way includes, among other things, a proposal to simplify the use of compulsory licences under the TRIPs Agreement which allows the government to act during a public health crisis, which is this. There are significant obstacles to making compulsory licences a practical solution to the current serious supply shortage. Researchers in the UK recently published a comprehensive legal analysis on the Trip exemption proposal. They noted that existing Trips' flexibility on compulsory licensing is not capable of managing the current pandemic context in a useful way. When governments use compulsory licences, they still risk long legal proceedings after being sued by pharmaceutical companies. It's happening right now. To sum up, the global public health crisis caused by covid-19 requires different elements – where we agree – to accelerate the process, reduce suffering and stop isolation and its consequences. Unfortunately, I feel that the government chooses to protect the profits of pharmaceutical companies instead of protecting global public health.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-871	Madam President, I would like I have to start by opposing the last comment made by Lorena Delgado Varas. It is not about protecting the profits of pharmaceutical companies in the short or long term. They are, of course, important for the pharmaceutical companies to be able to take action and build an organisation so that we get vaccines for future pandemics. What it's all about is protecting the world's population. We have a responsibility for this in the Swedish Government. I would like to say that Sweden is one of the most responsible and supportive countries. I will come back to our contributions to the Covax cooperation and our constructive dialogue in order to constantly improve it. But it is also about us constantly seeing that we should have open and free trade. We will ensure that the vaccine flows freely in the world. Since the beginning of the crisis, I have said that any measure that can increase access to vaccines is worth discussing. The most important thing we can do here and now is to increase production capacity. I would like to come back to the European Commission's proposal in May. This includes both trade and intellectual property as a prerequisite for developing vaccines and medicines. It is based on the idea of the Swedish initiative on trade and health that we presented last spring. There is support for increased production and for pushing for voluntary licences to ensure that the system of compulsory licences in the TRIPs Agreement is actually used. If compulsory licensing has not been used to date to the extent that it should have been done, the process is too complicated. Likely so. Then it must be corrected. However, it can also be about not being able to produce the vaccine. Then we must train in dialogue with pharmaceutical companies so that there are a lot of production units around the world. Sweden will continue to be a constructive and solidarity force for the whole world to be vaccinated. Nobody's safe until everyone's safe. The Swedish Government knows that. Therefore, we are a very clear voice for the vaccine to reach the whole world as soon as possible.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-880	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me how I view the situation with a house building that is the lowest in 100 years and what measures I intend to take to increase the production of villas in Sweden. Larry Söder states in the interpellation that house building would be at the lowest level in 100 years, while pointing out that the production of villas has increased by 2 percent in the last ten years. I do not see how these statements can be reconciled. It is true that the share of small-scale buildings in the total number of completed apartments has fallen in recent years, but this is mainly due to the fact that the number of completed apartments in residential blocks has skyrocketed. The fact that this construction is increasing is, of course, gratifying, because it means that we can remedy the housing shortage. However, the number of completed apartments in small houses has also increased – from around 8 000 per year ten years ago to between 10 000 and 12 000 in the last four years. This compares with the fact that in the mid-1990s, only around 4,000 apartments were completed in small houses per year. As I have pointed out in my answer to a previous written question from Larry Söder, I believe it is urgent that municipalities create the conditions for consumer demand for housing to be able to meet a supply that meets the needs, in line with the target set by the Parliament for the housing market. It is therefore desirable for municipalities to create the conditions for more small houses. I have previously informed Larry Söder that the government is working on several fronts to create better conditions for mixed housing. Among other things, the government has submitted a bill on private initiative aimed at enabling faster detailed plan e processes. The Government has also commissioned several authorities to review their claims on areas of national interest. This review aims at a significant reduction in both the number of claims of national interest and the overall distribution of these areas. I can also note that it has recently been reported in the media that several small house manufacturers find it difficult to deliver small houses at the rate that customers demand. This gives reason to believe that the image of what limits the building of small houses is more complex than Larry Söder wants to claim.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-887	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which I think is perhaps more frustrated by having to discuss small-scale housing than any response to the problem itself. I believe that it has never been more difficult for a citizen to buy a villa of his own than it is today. According to the Swedish Brokerage Statistics, the price increase in the country has been 19 per cent in the past year. In some areas, prices have rushed by nearly 30%. There were also new statistics today showing that the growth is continuing. I think this is a signal that there is a large deficit of small houses in Sweden. From many quarters there are signals that people increasingly value larger areas and more rooms. During the pandemic, many people have had to adapt their housing to the requirement to work more from home. In the longer term, however, it does not mean that people have changed their mind in any way they want to live. Survey after examination has long shown that about seven out of ten households would prefer to live in a villa or terraced house. Rather, the Corona crisis has brought with it that people have brought forward their will and their need to live in a villa. The construction rate of villas is according to SCB at the lowest level in 100 years. I have diagrams with me, directly taken from SCB, showing what I'm saying. We are horribly bad in Sweden at building small houses. The decade 2011 – 2020 is the worst decade in the statistics I have with me, which goes back 100 years. In the 1990s, to which the Minister refers, we had a much higher rate than the last decade. That's what SCB says. Small houses account for only 20% of new production in Sweden, while they account for twice as much in the rest of the EU. This is true despite the fact that Sweden does not lack buildable land or the competence to build many more small houses industrially. In fact, more land in Sweden is used for golf courses and ski slopes than would be needed to accommodate 1 million people in garden cities, communities with mixed, small-scale settlements, where everyone or most live in small-scale houses and terraced houses but also in multi-family houses. If this is what many studies show, namely that seven out of ten want to live in small houses, if living in small houses is economically beneficial to the individual, as many studies show, and if building small houses and garden cities is even more ecologically sustainable, as new studies show – why is the government fighting against the construction of small houses? That is my main question. What is the minister's ideal residence? Does the Minister wish to share with citizens what housing is accepted by the state and what housing will be combated by all means available? The rhetoric that it is the responsibility of the municipalities no longer holds up. There are many parts of the state budget that are the responsibility of municipalities or regions that are actually dealt with in a state budget. The municipalities are supported or punished if they do not do what they consider reasonable at national level. According to Today's industry and Karolina Skog, the government wants to go the other way and introduce a property tax. I would like to ask two questions: what is the ideal residence of the Minister for Housing on which government policy focuses? Does the government's policy in any way take into account the citizen's own choice and dream of owning a home?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-897	Madam President, I would like Let's pick up some things. First of all, as the honourable Member is of course very well aware, there is no notification whatsoever from the government about introducing any property tax. Of course, the honourable Member knows this, so I would appreciate it if we kept the debate to what we are going to discuss here. It is about my mission as a minister and what the government does, not what individual parties are out writing about. What is my ideal home-- well, how people want to live depends on the phase of life. I do not question in any way the great will to live in small houses. On the contrary, I think that mixed housing is by far the most desirable because I also know that people in different times of life need different types of housing. It can be when you divorce, when you get older and the dwelling becomes too large or, for that matter, when you are just leaving home, from the home where you may have grown up with your parents. Secondly, we also have to find out a little about shares and actual construction. If we built 4,000 villas a year in the 1990s and now 12 000 villas a year, there are three times as many today. True, the proportion has fallen, but it has been because we have gone from an extremely low level of building of dwellings in multi-family buildings to an actually historically high level of construction now, higher than in decades. We must therefore distinguish between what is the actual number of dwellings in the housing market and what is the proportion. It will be quite crucial for how we then approach these questions. The honourable Member also says that what he actually wondered about was that it was more difficult than ever because of the high prices, which is something other than the question in the interpellation. Clearly, we have had a huge rise in prices and we need more housing into the housing market. Here it is also the case that different types of housing affect each other. The moving chains are not insignificant in this, because we have a large generation who bought villas and small houses with very favourable rules a few decades ago. Today they are older, but thankfully healthy, and remain in these homes. We need to find ways to stimulate migration chains in different ways, and that is something we are working on, not least through a variety of reforms. In fact, I would like to ask the honourable Member a question. I know that in the shadow budget of the Christian Democrats there is no investment aid for any particular type of construction. It is also the case that the planning monopoly is municipal, which means that citizens who think it is being built too little have every opportunity to directly influence it in their local democracy in the municipality, to the municipal council. That is why, Madam President, I would like to know what the honourable Member means when he says that we are opposed to the construction of small houses. What reforms and decisions does the honourable Member think the Government or Government have taken, which means that we should actively combat the construction of small houses? I would argue that, on the contrary, this government has consistently been clear about the importance of mixed and differentiated housing but that we have a great need to add more rental rights to reasonable rents on the housing market, because there is an enormous need for it. Madam President, I would like It would be interesting to know what we are doing and what Larry Söder would like to point out which means that we would counteract the construction of small houses in the municipalities.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-905	Madam President, I would like Let us look at the number of small houses that have been built in what decade. It is quite possible to access SCB's website and look up the various decades. During the decade 1991 - 2000, some 100,000 small houses were built. During the decade 2011 – 2020 about 80 000 were built. The minister says it was worse in the '90s, but that's not true. Not according to SCB, and I believe in SCB. We are thus building on the number of smaller houses in the decade 2011– 2020 than we have in the last 100 years. Why is that? The Minister talks about the increase in the prices of villas. Yes, prices have increased. But what is the reason why house prices have increased? Well, it is the market prices that determine, that is, the supply is far too small against those who want to buy. Then prices increase. In other words, we build far too few small houses in Sweden. Why do we build too few small houses in Sweden? Because the government is acting unilaterally and only wants to build rental apartments and build only to densify the cities. Investment support only goes to rental apartments. I do not see in the government budget that there is any incentive to build more small houses. If I am wrong, the Minister is happy to tell me, but there is no incentive in the crown number of the government budget that says that you should build small houses, but it is rental apartments. I believe that we must tackle the problems that exist. The Minister is absolutely right that there is a plane monopoly, but we can also encourage the municipalities to plan more. The studies carried out with different municipalities show that it is not the case that they do not want to plan small-scale houses, but they give priority to what they can get investment aid for and what is easiest to plan, namely rental apartments, possibly together with residential flats, but not small-house parts. They take longer, and the parts are smaller– so they come further down the priority. My simple conclusion is that we must stimulate the municipalities to plan more and complete more plans. This means that we can also plan for small houses. It is simple mathematics, which means that more plans are made in Sweden. More small houses are being built. If more small houses are built, the house prices will also be flattened. That means that there will be reasonable prices. One thing can be done, apart from all the other measures I have raised with the Minister in previous interpellation debates. I believe that the government's policy is one-sidedly focusing on rentals only. It is easy to see that there is a need for rental apartments. There are queues in each municipality that want a rental apartment. Perhaps the Minister should introduce some kind of control of whether you actually want a small house, so that the Minister sees that there is a need to build small houses in Sweden. The Minister says that she wants a policy that seeks to build based on the needs that exist; that people should be able to strive for their own housing. The government's policy today needs to change in order to meet the need for small houses. The Minister does not actually say that I am wrong in that part, that is to say that there is a firm need to build small houses in Sweden. I have more suggestions, if the minister wants to hear.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-916	Madam President, I would like We agree that there is a need for small houses, and there is also a great demand. It is visible on prices, on household loan rates and pressure to make it easier for first-time buyers. I also know that there is a great need for rental apartments for reasonable rents. There is one group that does not come into question at all in order to consider buying small houses or, for that matter, the right of residence. We need housing for several parts of the market. I am also aware that when there are functioning migration chains and there will be a movement in the housing market, there will also be more houses released. This does not mean that we do not have to build small houses, but it means that we can achieve a better balance in the housing market if we also have better mobility. I never got an answer to what Mr. Larry Söder really thinks the government is doing to actively counteract the construction of small houses. How does the honourable Member see that it is actually the citizens of the municipality, where you own land, who are involved in deciding how to use that land, that you have the democratic opportunity to influence through the municipal council? Does the honourable Member wish to restrict this and that the state should steer the municipal plan monopoly more firmly? Or is it the case that the Christian Democrats are running – which would be interesting to know – a state investment aid for the construction of small houses without it being reflected in the budget? Is there a figure or a model? If so, does it intend to combine it with the existing investment aid, which the Christian Democrats voted away a few years ago with the 2018 budget and where, I am sure, there was no investment aid for small houses? It would be good to know what this government is doing, according to the honourable Member, to counteract the construction of small houses. Are the Christian Democrats pushing the issue of state investment aid for small houses?
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-920	Madam President, I would like I will be clear again about what I spoke about in my previous speech. State investment aid for rental rights contributes to the construction of rental apartments only. In other words, they only run the type of construction that Sweden can manage for rent instead of dividing it into small houses and rental apartments. I believe that existing investment aid should be abolished. Let the market handle this, and then let the municipalities get a stimulus to be able to plan more small houses. We have talked about this in several debates, and I am aware that the Minister is aware of this. But she wants to argue in some way that something is being done for the construction of small houses in Sweden. But you don't. I can give you some examples of what proposals we Christian Democrats have, so the Minister can take them along over midsummer and think about whether they are good ideas. We think it is good to have a planning incentive for the municipalities, where they also plan small-house areas. Then you will investigate how the municipalities can overplan and compensate the parts that it becomes too little of. We think it should be built rental apartments, flats and small houses, but it should be in the form that allows small houses to be built to the extent needed. We also think that the county boards should be allowed to identify suitable areas for buildable land in order for the work to go faster. We also think that credit restrictions should be reviewed so that more young people can get their own owned housing. The Minister has said nothing but that I am right in saying that it is socially, economically and ecologically best to live in small houses. Then I do not understand why we have a government that works so that there should not be small houses in Sweden but only apartment buildings. Investment support is a clear example of what the government is doing. A lot of money is being put there. Take them away, and let all the flowers bloom.
i-a2446afbff6bdfe1-927	Madam President, I would like Then I will start at the end that from my point of view and from the government's point of view it is not a struggle between different forms of housing but a desire for it to be built mixed. We need both small and multi-detached houses and both owned dwellings and rented dwellings – premises and dwellings. However, I note from the honourable Member's speech that the Christian Democrats want to abolish investment aid for rental rights and instead spend money on stimulating the construction of small houses. It is a direct transfer of money from rental apartments, from the people who need housing in rental apartments, to the building of small houses. That is how I see those proposals. I'm not behind that. The government disagrees. We have built more rental apartments in recent years than in many years. If we go back and look at the two mandates of the Alliance Government, we see that it was built minimally with housing. As far as I am aware, there was no investment aid or incentive for small-scale houses either, but also for rental or multi-detached dwellings in municipalities. The municipalities have every opportunity to plan. What we need to work on is that it should go faster and be simpler and that, just as the honourable Member is at it, we give the opportunity for those outside the housing market to take the step in more easily. When we can eventually hopefully present proposals for a start-up loan for first-time buyers, it will also make it easier for those who want to live in small houses. However, removing investment aid for rental rights in a situation where we have just started to catch up and have just begun to graze the housing debt that has been built up – not least for eight years of alliance government but also under the governments before that – would be a major failure, because if we do not provide enough housing in total on the housing market, we will continue to have a situation where prices go up and it becomes more difficult for the relocation chains to function optimally. I'd love to see small houses, but I certainly don't want to touch on investment support for rental apartments.
