i-f69c2a2c13238947-2	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating another government proposal that is hitting hard on those who depend on the car. It is a proposal that imposes additional burdens on those who work and do the right thing. The government wants to adjust the standard calculation used to determine the value of car benefit. The aim is stated to be that the benefit value should better correspond to the cost of holding a private car and that neutrality should be achieved between income in the form of car benefit and cash salary. The latter seems to be a good aim. Of course, the levy shall be the same regardless of whether the compensation is paid in the form of a cash salary or any other benefit. In fact, however, this is just another of countless government proposals to raise taxes. The question has to be asked: is access to a company car equivalent to ownership of a private car? No, Madam President, it is not. For, as the name says, a company car is a car used in the ministry. It is a work tool without which many would not be able to do their job. The plumber, electrician, painter, seller and many other professional categories need the car to get to their place of work, to drive between the places where they carry out their duties and to transport their tools. It does not work to transport a three-metre tube in the subway. And the subway, Madam President, is only in Stockholm. This is something that the government seems to be unaware of or otherwise chooses to completely ignore. No other conclusion can be drawn from the design of the government's anti-car policy. Many workers have no influence on companies' choice of car. It is usually not the employee who chooses the brand, size, driveline and equipment. Cars are often provided with stickers and other promotional messages, and the car benefit is often valued significantly higher than the employee's private needs. Madam President, I would like The timing of the introduction of the proposal is rarely ill-chosen. When the pandemic has changed the conditions for many companies, entire industries are on their knees and many companies are on the brink of bankruptcy, there is certainly no need for new tax increases. The so-called adjustment of the car benefit is nothing more than a tax increase on labour. The Government estimates that it will give SEK 2.33 billion to the Treasury. An additional EUR 2.33 billion will be an additional burden in an extremely worrying situation. This happens when unemployment is record high, the fourth highest in the EU, despite the Prime Minister's promise that Sweden would already last year have the lowest unemployment rate. This is a completely wrong priority and directly irresponsible by the government. The proposal has upset many people. This week I received e-mails from an entrepreneur, a consultant in the energy industry. He usually drives about 4,000 miles per year, but not this year, because he has not been able to visit any customers at all because of the pandemic. It will be difficult for him to pay for a benefit he has not used either in the job or in private. And he's not alone. Many have heard from them with comments, and they have all been negative. It is ordinary people who are concerned that they will not be able to afford the forthcoming increase and that they will have to buy a private car, then usually with significantly lower environmental performance and significantly lower safety. About 300 000 people are currently taxed for preferential cars in Sweden. The proposal will mean a tax increase of about $400 - $800 a month. People who depend on the car are already affected by the recently introduced car tax increase in bonuses – the Malus system and the sharply increased fuel prices in recent years. In addition to the negative effects already mentioned, the fact that the change in preferential taxation takes place in a half-yearly shift creates a lot of extra unnecessary administration for companies, but also for other operators, such as the Tax Agency, finance companies and leasing companies. Three different calculation models will have to be dealt with in the benefit scheme. In particular, as always when the government makes its ill-considered proposals, this affects smaller companies. Madam President, I would like In addition to the already mentioned disadvantages of the proposal, it is highly doubtful whether it will lead to any environmental benefits. The cost increases in the benefit system are likely to delay the conversion of the fleet. The companies are usually the first with the new technology, and it is the service car market that has introduced most new electric cars and charging hybrids, which have then been sold on to the private market. In the last year, around three quarters of all electric cars and charging hybrids were registered in companies. If companies will be able to offer preferential cars to a significant extent, sales of new environmentally friendly cars may fall and the renewal of the car stock may stop. It is not a desired development. However, as usual, the fine words of the government about the environment and their decisions and practical actions are not intertwined. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-15	Madam President, I would like The Government has put forward a new proposal at Parliament's table. Now the issue is a relatively peripheral one about the calculation of car benefit. On closer consideration, the question may be somewhat greater than it suggests, as the tax is increased by 2.33 billion. It is a green tax shift, that is, the government's tax policy as a whole, and it is a question of state finances. Approximately 300 000 people are taxed this year. No account is taken of those who receive a further 25% increase in preferential taxation. This is equivalent to SEK 400 to 800 per month. That's a lot. The tax mainly affects men, since 80 per cent of those taxed for benefit are men. According to the bill, this adjustment has a negligible effect on economic equality between men and women in the country. In 2019 the average salary of those who have a van was SEK 51 400, and the car benefit is most common in commuting municipalities near the city. When we are in a situation where the national economy is facing huge risks due to the pandemic and a restart must be made, the government proposes that we increase the tax on preferential cars. With clear focus, companies are meeting, which is the engine of economic development. The proposal to adjust the calculation of car benefit is basically about increasing the tax a little extra and a little more than the other tax increases that have already been made. Tax increases have been made on transport, fuels and not least through bonuses – the Malus system, where taxation has been stepped up in several steps. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have pointed out how bonus – malus has been a method of withdrawing money for increasing social costs for which the government is responsible. The government is now bringing forward a tax that involves even more of the same commodity instead of solving the problems. How is it that in most cases the government chooses to increase the tax on basic components of the national economy to finance growing social costs rather than reducing the costs of social problems? These in turn generate new societal problems. Now onions are placed on the salmon, and tax increases tighten the thumb screws to push the motorists with the wrong car and into a dead end. One problem with the proposal is that no account has been taken of anything other than a preferential car or a privately owned car. L easing has not been included. Nor have gas cars been taken into account. Gas cars are the type of car that is closest to the cut-off point, i.e. the car that receives the highest supplement to preferential taxation. Electric cars are slightly more expensive, so they get slightly less increased tax. Nor has it been taken into account whether the car is used as a work tool or whether it is used in private. Should it not be the case that it is precisely the private sector that would be subject to preferential taxation and not when using the car as a work tool? There is generally a lack of an overall view of how different instruments affect those who depend on the car as a means of transport and work tools. Therefore, you need to do a complete review of the regulatory framework for car benefit where the purpose should be broader than a regulatory simplification. The review also needs to include parking and other variable costs. It is also the case that the reduction in the benefit value of environmental cars is moving towards the 2030 climate target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport. The proposed increase in costs risks delaying the conversion of the fleet. Perhaps we should give a bonus to anyone who leaves their car to the scrap yard to remove the dirtiest cars instead of making sure that the cars that are really needed are affected. I ask you to accept reservation number one.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-28	Madam President, I would like The government is proposing changes in the benefit value of cars. The proposal has several shortcomings and is very strangely designed. That is a pity, Madam President, because there is absolutely reason to make changes to the benefit system. The system creates a distortion between preferential cars and privately owned cars. This is problematic because in practice many people cannot choose a preferential car because they cannot access it via their employer. According to the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the actual car cost has increased by 40 to 45 per cent since 1997. During the same period, the benefit value has increased by 10 to 15 per cent. At the same time, the possibility of a preferential car is important for many small businesses, and a large part of new car sales takes place via the benefit system. Therefore, a change in the system must be made wisely. Unfortunately, the government's proposal for changes is anything but wise. The proposal means that expensive preferential cars, which cost over SEK 650 000, will have a lower benefit value, while the tax increase will hit those who drive a preferential car with a price of around SEK 357,000. The Financial Control Agency has shown that the more expensive cars – those that are now going to get a lower benefit value – are more driven by those with higher income. The government's proposal therefore has a dubious distributional policy profile that does not at all rhyme with how it is usually sounded from the Social Democrats in the debate. The fact that the cheaper cars bear the cost of the tax increase, while the most expensive cars receive a tax reduction, also means that the government's proposal puts women in a preferential car at a disadvantage, since the average benefit value of the car is higher for men than for women. Nor does this rhyme with the way it is usually sounded from the Social Democrats in the debate. In addition, the Government's proposal increases the cost of several types of electric cars. We Christian Democrats are questioning all these strange priorities. Madam President, I would like As I said, there are reasons to change the system of preferential value. But instead of reducing the tax on expensive cars and increasing it on cheaper cars, we Christian Democrats are proposing that a greater proportion of the tax increase be paid by those who have relatively expensive cars. Compared to the Government's proposal, our proposal means up to SEK 300 lower tax per month for those with preferential cars worth less than SEK 357,000. Our proposal has a better distributional policy profile than the government's proposal and means that people who live in less densely populated areas, and who generally drive somewhat cheaper preferential cars, receive a tax reduction compared to the government's proposal. The removal of the reduced benefit value of environmental cars should not have happened either. According to our proposal, environmental cars would then have been able to have a reduced benefit value in agreement with the rules in force before January this year. Thus, environmental cars had not been hit so hard by a benefit-value adjustment. Madam President, I would like The changes in the taxation of preferential cars proposed by the government are neither sensible nor balanced. That is a pity, because there is reason to make changes, not least in order to reduce distortions between privately owned cars and preferential cars. I therefore support the Christian Democrats' reservation, reservation 2.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-39	Madam President, I would like The cost of a car should be the same whether you buy it yourself or get it paid by the employer. That is the aim of the change that we are now debating. It is based on something very fine, namely justice. Justice, on the other hand, does not really mean the same for everyone. Some think that it is fair that those who have the opportunity to have a lower taxed preferential car should also receive it, even if they are relatively few when looking at the whole population. I have often been asked why those who have a preferential car should be taxed and why everyone should have it as bad, as it is usually called. For me, that's a pretty preposterous question. Why should a person who has the opportunity to have a preferential car also receive a lower tax than other people have on their car ownership? It is today a system that rewards certain solutions over others and strikes very unfairly. We are now going to change the conditions for preferential cars, and it is of course the case that those who will have to pay more in the future are not so happy. But the changes also come from the fact that today it is more affordable, that is cheaper, to pay a car to their employees than to pay wages in cash. It has not been the ambition of Swedish tax policy that those who have the opportunity and position to get a car paid by the employer should have an advantage compared to those who do not have that opportunity. Basically, the tax system should be designed so that it does not matter if employees are paid with cash or other benefits, such as cars, travel or anything else. At least it should not be advantageous for employers to get away with paying with cash that the employee can use for whatever it wants. This creates justice between those who have such an opportunity and those who do not. There are about 300 000 preferential cars rolling in Sweden today, and they are less taxed than all the other about 5 million passenger cars that we have in total. Of course, as we have heard here before from the speaker's chair, we can reason whether the people who today are allowed to use cars that are really needed in the profession should also be allowed to use them privately – cars that are custom-made or rebuilt to be commercial vehicles and are counted as work tools. It is this group that today's system may work okay for, and they will of course need these cars in the future. There is a risk that companies will not think it is as good to let their employees use the cars even after working hours. We have heard the Christian Democrats here talking about the distribution profile. Professional vehicles are, of course, the most expensive group of cars, precisely because they need to be specially adapted because they are used in a way that an ordinary private person does not use a car. It will then be very strange to talk about the distribution profile, that you should keep the adjustment down for more expensive cars so that they will continue to pay more. We don't think that's reasonable. We think that this is a very well-balanced proposal, in which we both take into account the cars as work tools and ensure that taxation is as equal as possible for everyone who has a car in Sweden. Another argument we have heard here today from the speaker's chair is that the rules would be too simple and do not take enough things into account. That is exactly the opposite of what it usually sounds like in this speaker's chair. Usually you find the rules too complicated, that they are too difficult to use and that there is too much administration for companies. It is also an aspect that we have taken into account in the proposal. Now we get it against us because it is too simplistic and does not take enough into account. I think this is gonna be a little weird. We all want a simple system. We cannot adapt our argumentation here in the speaker's chair to what is right at the moment and which one happens to want to flirt with right now. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the motion to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-51	Madam President, I would like Patrik Lundqvist put forward some arguments in favour of increasing the tax on car benefit. That was fair, there were regulatory simplifications and simplifications in the system. If he now believes that there is a difference between salary and cash and car benefit, why not lower income tax? It would be a lot easier. It would also be more honest if the Social Democrats had admitted that the government needs the money. It is a pure increase in taxes on labour, for the government needs money to invest in even more subsidies and be able to devote itself to even more waste, such as free years, family week and more. We have enormous unemployment in Sweden. Would it not be better to ensure that people come to work and pay taxes and thus contribute to money coming to the treasury? Madam President, I would like A company car is a work tool that the employee needs to do his job. So far, the government is not taxing other tools, such as computers and desks that other workers need.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-57	Madam President, I would like The question that Boriana Åberg is asking is a bit strange, I have to say. There is no government in this country that has been talking in a very long time about having no tax on preferential cars. The fact that we choose to tax them is for the same reason as everyone else. Of course, the state needs money to do a lot of different things, including investing in more education and ensuring that people actually get an opportunity for a job. It is no secret that we think that public investment in education and other things is much smarter ways of achieving lower unemployment than tax cuts. What Boriana Åberg is after is really to promote tax cuts at all costs for the benefit of those who already have a lot of money. I think that will be very obvious here. We need money in this society, and we need to use it wisely. A wise way to use the tax money is not to have a lower tax on preferential cars instead of spending the money on education, for example, to create jobs for our future.
i-RNRcQ6E5hHcTV5aticKsfN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Lundqvist, for your answer. Patrik Lundqvist thinks that raising taxes on work tools is the right way to go. The Social Democrats are like a craftsman who has only one tool in the tool belt: a hammer. With this hammer you hammer in raised treasures on everything. New taxes and increased taxes are the solution to all problems. Higher taxes on working, higher taxes on getting to work, higher taxes on industry and agriculture, property tax, tax on pension savings, tax on plastic bags, tax on refrigerators, on computers, on clothes and on shoes – the list can be made very long. This is a damaging policy that the Social Democrats have actually tried already. It led to the 1990s crisis, where hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs. Have not the Social Democrats learned anything from history? Why repeat old mistakes?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-62	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg claims here that we only have one solution. As you know yourself, you also know others. Tax cuts are at least the most widely used tool in the Moderate Toolbox. With more revenue for the state, however, we can buy more tools to use for community building, just like any other company does. They use the money they have and invest it in order to have a better future. This is exactly how we want to use the state and public operations in Sweden. We also know from countless studies that this is a much better way to create a society where everyone gets an opportunity, instead of some running away and having unhemultimately much money while others live in poverty.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-64	Madam President, I would like We are discussing today proposals for a change in the calculation of car benefit. The starting point is that the benefit value should in principle correspond to the cost of owning and driving a corresponding privately owned car. The model on which the calculation is based is intended to include all costs of a privately owned car other than fuel. A fundamental principle of tax legislation is that of uniformity and neutral taxation. This means, among other things, that the tax charge must be the same regardless of whether work compensation is paid in the form of salary or in the form of a benefit, such as the benefit of a free car. The proposals in the bill aim to ensure that the rules for car benefit, in addition to steering towards more environmentally friendly cars, will mean a neutral taxation between benefit and cash salary. Madam President, I would like The current standard for valuing car benefits has remained largely unchanged since its introduction in 1997. The reason for the proposed changes is that, according to many, the valuation today is below the market value. This may mean that the tax system rewards, for example, fossil-powered cars in relation to other goods and services. It also means a tax advantage for cars relative to cash pay. The interest-related amount, which is a factor proposed to change in the bill, is meant to correspond to the capital costs of the car. I do not see any reason to go into the details of the proposal, but the calculation of the interest-related amount today is based on the assumption that the purchase of the car is financed with equity and reflects the interest income after tax on a risk-free investment equivalent to that capital. We can expect at least one third of private buyers of new cars today to finance their purchases with credit. As a result, the current structure of the interest-related amount leads to an underestimation of the cost of capital. Madam President, I would like The second element proposed to change in the bill is the price-related amount, which is supposed to correspond to the other costs of a car's ownership, primarily the depreciation of the car. In a study carried out by the Swedish Tax Agency in 2018, the Authority found that the average depreciation over three years amounted to just over 40 per cent, which is more than what forms the basis of today's calculation. In addition to some different studies in specialist press, no further in-depth Swedish studies have been carried out with regard to the depreciation of passenger cars. At the same time, there is probably no clear indication that the percentage depreciation is higher among expensive cars than among lower-price cars. This is how the system is designed today, which means that the current flat-rate calculation overestimates the depreciation of more expensive cars. The increase in the benefits of the proposal may lead to some beneficiaries opting for cars with lower prices or giving up their vans altogether. They can also mean choosing a smaller car that is very likely to have lower CO2 emissions. Or private cars are used to a greater extent, and then other instruments are ticking off for environmental car management. Or other benefits are simply offered.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-73	The increase in the benefit value of car models may result in some preferential car owners choosing a car with a lower price for the next car change, thus avoiding an increase in the benefit value. Others may choose to keep existing cars longer than planned, thus avoiding being affected by the new rules. I would like to point out that a new purchase is needed in order for there to be other rules. Otherwise, the old rules apply. Madam President, I would like The new car price will also be reduced with the new rules for environmentally adapted cars to the nearest comparable conventional car. The number of newly registered passenger cars in 2020 was just over 300 000. The proportion of climate bonus cars was equivalent to nearly one third of newly registered passenger cars. The Swedish Tax Agency has proposed, among other things, an annual review of this with reductions for environmental cars. We think that is a wise idea. We choose to focus on it and follow it up in the future. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-77	Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports the Government's proposal to adjust the flat-rate calculation used to determine the value of car benefit. The proposal amends two components of the calculation: the interest-related amount and the price-related amount. The starting point is that the benefit value should in principle correspond to the cost of owning and driving a corresponding privately owned car. There is, of course, a purpose to that. Then it is also reasonable for income in the form of car benefit and cash salary to be taxed equally. On the basis of existing legislation, more equitable taxation between car benefits and other income can also be achieved. It should also be noted in this debate that the current standard for valuing car benefits has remained largely unchanged since its introduction in 1997, with the exception of some adjustments in connection with the introduction of the Malus scheme for new light-duty vehicles. The Standard therefore results today in a valuation of the benefit that is generally well below the market value. This means that the tax system rewards fossil-powered cars in relation to other goods and services. It also means a tax advantage for cars relative to cash pay. Then it is not the case that the proposal affects everyone, high and low, as they want it to work in the debate, but an increase affects on average people higher up in income distribution more, both in SEK and percentage terms because car benefits are more common among people with higher incomes. The higher the income distribution, the greater the impact. I think that this proposal is fair. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-81	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Taxation, Public Health and Consumer Protection, entitled 'Adjusted calculation of car benefit'. The Government's proposal has been developed within the framework of the January Agreement, and the Liberals support the proposed change to the car benefit. The aim is to find greater neutrality between car benefit and other income. The amendment will enter into force on July 2021. I will not go into the details of the proposal here but will dwell on the potential environmental impacts. The liberals assess all instruments in the transport area on the basis of the high climate targets decided by the Riksdag. Sweden's objective is to achieve net zero emissions in 2045, and transport in particular has received an industry-specific target. By 2030, CO2 emissions will have decreased by 70% in the transport sector compared to 2010. It's a very tough target. If we are to succeed in such a short period of time, a variety of measures are needed. The most important measure is electrification of road transport, complemented by fossil-free fuels to reduce emissions from the existing fleet. Liberals have the basic principle that those who generate emissions should pay, and we want to avoid subsidies. However, we believe that, in the event of technological leaps and with our tough timetable for 2030, it may be justifiable for a short transitional period to provide certain subsidies to speed up the transition. This is an important entry point when the Liberals assess instruments. How are we going to get the fastest possible transition to electrification while meeting people's needs for road transport in everyday life and allocating the cost in an acceptable way? We believe in bonus – the effect of the Malus system to get car buyers to choose rechargeable cars and to speed up the technology shift. It is important that charging hybrids are included in the bonus part, as they are an important intermediate step to the electric car for many car buyers and form the majority of sold rechargeable cars today. The system is self-financing, and the bonus should end when rechargeable and fossil-powered cars are comparable in price. Then market forces manage the transition. We also want to see an environmental reduction in the benefit value of business cars for the simple reason that the vast majority of all rechargeable cars sold are corporate cars. By keeping that sale up, we create a second-hand market of cars at price levels where many more consumers can afford to buy a rechargeable car. Through the system, companies also take a large part of the depreciation that takes place during the first three years. Today, car buyers with regular income cannot afford to buy an electric car because it is too expensive. We are in a technology shift where cars and also buses, trucks and machines are electrified. In all technological shifts, the first copies will be considerably more expensive before the new technology has come through and mass production has started. This makes passenger cars too expensive in this case at first so that people with regular incomes can afford to buy them. What is happening now is that companies in particular are responsible for new car purchases of rechargeable cars and paying for the greatest depreciation. When these cars then enter the second-hand market after about three years, the price of the cars has fallen so that more can afford to buy them. This means that companies pay a considerably larger share than the state to make the new technology quickly available to ordinary people. In 2020, more than 300 000 new passenger cars were sold in Sweden. It is estimated that more than half of newly registered cars were sold to companies, of which about 40 per cent were preferential cars. The share of chargeable cars in total sales was just over 30 percent, and we see that the majority of these were sold to companies. Current environmental management reduces the benefit value of an environmental car to the equivalent of fossil-powered vehicles. This combined means that changes in the benefit value system can have a major impact on the sale of rechargeable vehicles. Beneficiaries can choose cars with lower prices and thus exclude a choice of a chargeable car or waive the benefit car entirely. This combined with the temporary additional reduction in the benefit value of environmental cars being removed at the turn of the year can reduce the number of new rechargeable cars on our roads and thus our ability to achieve our climate goals. Liberals will closely monitor the development of the sale of rechargeable cars to enable changes to our instruments in a downturn. We don't want to lose momentum in climate change.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-94	Madam President, I would like What we are debating today is an adjusted calculation of car benefits. It is a small victory in which we in the Green Party are trying to redo and do the right thing so that it does not continue as it is today when it pays more to get a car than to get paid. The standard, which is very old and used to calculate the tax when you get a car benefit, makes the car valued lower than its actual market value. This moves in an environmentally unfriendly direction while at the same time violating the principle of neutral taxation. Of those who are today car benefit recipients, as has been mentioned earlier, around 80 per cent are men. 75 percent of them earn more than $1,000 a month. 52% of these exist in three metropolitan regions. This compares with 40% of the population living there. So they are very over-represented. It is also in these metropolitan regions that public transport should work best. This is a climate-damaging subsidy of cars to largely wealthy men in the metropolitan regions. The proposed change in car benefit has good distributional effects. Median pay for the benefit car owners is SEK 51 400. Madam President, I would like There is probably more car driving today than is necessary because of this poor system and the travel allowance. We want to change the system of preferences in order to speed up the transition, and then an adjusted standard is a simple and obvious measure. However, it is only a small piece of the puzzle of several. As has been mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair, we must reduce the emissions of cars and the total transport sector in order to achieve our climate and environmental objectives. Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate, we have also heard, from those who oppose the proposal, that it is a tax on labour. But it is actually a principle that we are now adjusting. It is therefore not a tax on labour, as is claimed. Nor is it something that will put rural areas at a disadvantage, given where the people who receive increased preferential taxation live. We have also heard that a person cannot transport three meters long pipes on the subway. This is something that I can relate to especially, as I have been working on taking a boat out to my various missions. I can assure you I didn't do it on the subway. But I didn't have my own car to do it either. It was the company car that made it possible. There is a clear difference there. So this does not apply to a tax on company cars. Often companies are keen to assist with the tools, materials and tools needed to carry out their tasks in a good and safe way. But this does not mean that you have to have a preferential car to carry out the mission. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the bill.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-103	Madam President, I would like Rebecka Le Moine regards the proposal as a partial victory. However, several consultation bodies fear that the proposal will lead people to choose to have their own cars instead of paying more to use a preferential car. The Greens tend to speak out in favour of the collaborative economy, but at the same time they oppose it by preventing workers and employers from sharing cars. In addition, taking the car home reduces employers' need for parking spaces for all their vehicles. This makes it easier both for urban planning and for the environment. Mismanagement with parking spaces is by the way something that leading environmental parties in Skåne have, among other things, been evil about during several terms of office. Unnecessaryly large hard surfaces are mismanaged with land and also prevent the absorption of rainwater. In government, however, the Green Party is now making decisions that lead to this very thing. As a result, these decisions and the Green Party are directly harmful to the environment while trying to maintain a picture of the opposite. Why?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-106	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Boriana Åberg's creativity in this line shift. This is something the Green Party has been fighting for a long time. This is fully in line with what we see as necessary to reduce the environmental and climate emissions of the transport sector. At the same time, we are entirely in favour of the collaborative economy that the Green Party has been pushing for decades. I do not think that one can in any way make that connection without having a big ounce of imagination and creativity. The cars used in the job can, to a large extent, be company cars, which are not included in this proposal. Turning to car pools and other sharing economic contexts is also not in contrast to the proposal. The current benefit has remained unchanged for a long time. It favors rich men in big cities. The proposal is in no way in contrast to the environmental work that the Green Party has been working on for decades. This is a small step, but in the right direction, towards non-subsidisation of owning a car, not, moreover, for those people who are the most wealthy and who live in places where there should be good public transport.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-112	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Rebecka Le Moine. I didn't realize I got an answer. But Rebecka Le Moine will have new questions and new opportunities to satisfy my curiosity. People in service jobs cannot use business cars when they need to go out on missions at three o'clock in the night. Then it is not possible to get by public transport to the car park where all the service cars stand and then get to the place where you will carry out your mission. The referral bodies are very clear that the proposal will hit Swedish jobs and lead people to choose to buy private cars with lower environmental performance and probably more emissions. I wonder which cars emit the most carbon dioxide. Are these old cars or new cars? Is it desirable to renew the fleet of cars against charging hybrids or pure electric cars? If this is desirable, why is the Green Party impeding this transition? Does Sweden need growth to cope with environmental problems or not? If yes, why is the Green Party pushing the policies that hit hard on jobs, entrepreneurship and mobility? In the past, the Green Party has been included in its programme to strive for zero growth. Is zero growth still the Green Party's vision for the future?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-116	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for the questions! I appreciate them. Even in this chamber debate, we come up with growth criticism. I always think that's funny. First of all, the claim that you cannot leave at 3 a.m. if you do not have a car of your own is not true. I also have experience working on inconvenient working hours. You can plan with your employer and borrow the company car well in advance, perhaps after work, in order to carry out your assignments early or on awkward working hours. There are many examples that it can work without its own car. I am a little curious about the assertion that with this proposal we will have much more hard surfaces and parking spaces. I would like Boriana Åberg to come back with some kind of research or support for that claim.
i-b6833c430e1f4e22-0	I do not have any more lines, Madam President. ) When it comes to whether the Green Party is still critical of growth, I say: Absolutely! It is a debate that is increasingly linked to the climate issue and the climate crisis, which we are in the midst of, and also to the natural crisis. So much research points to the connection between exponential, uninhibited growth and the environmental impact and environmental disasters that are the price we pay for it. My conviction and that of the Green Party is, of course, that we cannot have exponential, unbridled economic growth on a limited planet when we know more and more clearly than ever that we have to manage that planet. That, in fact, is the economy. That means management with resources. We have to save our resources. We can't have exponential growth for all eternity.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-122	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the government's handling of the special payroll tax for the elderly and whether the reform has achieved its purpose. The Swedish National Audit Office has concluded that this is not the case and that the necessary evaluations should be made. In response to the Government's letter on the matter, the Center Party has written a follow-up motion in which we suggest that the Government should further monitor and evaluate the payroll tax. Without initiating a debate on the matter, I would therefore simply like to express my support for our reservation on the matter.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-124	Madam President, I would like On the same subject, too, I am not going to initiate a debate on the matter, but I have been instructed on behalf of the committee to ask only for the committee's proposal and for the motion to be rejected.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-125	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. The termination of the Swedish Tax Agreement with Greece means that the Agreement will expire on 31 December 2021. The agreement will therefore no longer apply from the tax year 2022. For previous tax years, the agreement remains applicable. The reason for the termination of the agreement is the targeted legal framework recently introduced in Greece which separates the tax treatment of income received by residents from other countries. This means that people moving from Sweden to these countries can receive a particularly favourable tax on income they receive from Sweden. This is a 7% tax on pensions and capital income. As regards the taxation of all forms of pensions, the Swedish tax treaty policy has long been that the source State, i.e. the State from which a pension is paid in a cross-border situation, should have the primary right of taxation. As a result of the tax agreements preventing Sweden from taxing the income concerned, the overall rate of taxation is very low, and it creates incentives for people to move from Sweden to these countries, in this case Greece, mainly for tax reasons. This was not the intention when the agreements were concluded. Of course, in an increasingly common Europe, citizens should be able to move and write in any Member State whenever they wish. At the same time, we Social Democrats believe that it is the nation states that own their tax policies, and it should not be subject to any European uniformity for devaluation purposes. A relatively high tax charge on broad tax bases is and remains the basis for building and developing welfare, regardless of the country in question. In relations between Member States, it is therefore important, for example, to close holes in the tax system through tax treaties. With Greece, this is happening at an early stage. Strong reasons for terminating the agreement before a new tax treaty is in place. According to the Government, waiting for a negotiation means that a matter of fundamental importance for Sweden is subject to a bilateral process over which Sweden does not unilaterally prevail and where the counterparty lacks incentives for a quick agreement. It is therefore in danger of creating a lengthy process during which tax planning can continue. The agreement with Sweden dates from 1961 and is archaic, and it also lacks provisions which now constitute minimum standards for tax agreements, which have been drawn up within the framework of the tax base erosion and profit shifting project. The Agreement's rules for the exchange of information also do not meet current international standards. Moreover, the whole agreement is archaic, which makes its application more difficult. Greece is a net contributor to money from the EU Recovery Fund, which came into being in connection with the Corona outbreak, while Sweden pays more money to the fund than we get back. This makes it particularly remarkable that countries such as Portugal and Greece want to attract other EU citizens with low taxes. It is gratifying that all parties are behind the government proposal.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-134	Madam President, I would like The Moderates feel that it is fundamentally regrettable that the tax agreement with Greece is facing dismissal. Decommissioned tax treaties are something that should be avoided. It creates uncertainty and reduced predictability. However, it is unreasonable, Madam President, for Greece to receive substantial financial contributions from other countries of the European Union while offering tax-driven schemes that erode the donor countries' tax bases. As has been said earlier, Sweden's tax treaty with Greece is a very old tax agreement which there are good reasons for renegotiating. The tax agreement lacks, among other things, central standard provisions for tax agreements, those arising from the BEPS project, base erosion and profit shifting. The Moderates assume that the government acts swiftly and ensures that the necessary changes can be made in order to get a better and fairer tax agreement between countries in place. The statement by the Minister of Finance undermines Sweden's position and counteracts Swedish interests when she tries with excessive rhetoric to blame those Swedes who, for various reasons, choose to exploit freedom of movement within the EU and settle in countries such as Greece and Portugal. We believe that a Swedish Minister of Finance should be on the side of Swedish citizens and not criticise those citizens who comply with current laws and regulations. I noted, Madam President, that Anna Vikström also reinforced this in her speech when she said that Swedes move to Greece solely for economic reasons. There are many different reasons why people move to Greece. For example, November, December, January and February are four reasons. However, it is not reasonable for countries such as Sweden to assume a high level of financial responsibility for the economies of southern European countries through large loans and grants, while countries such as Greece have tried to secure tax exemptions for certain groups from other countries. This is a system that Sweden should not accept. In this context, it should also be pointed out that there are good reasons to reduce the so-called SINK tax in the future in order to bring about a more balanced taxation of Swedes living abroad. The government's increase in the SINK tax from 20 to 25 per cent in the previous term of office was unjustified. Despite these comments, the Moderates support the Committee's position on the Government's proposal because it is unreasonable for countries to require support from Swedish taxpayers in the form of grants and loans while offering tax-driven arrangements in order to erode Swedish tax bases. That is also why the Moderates, Madam President, have submitted a specific opinion on the matter.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-139	Madam President, I would like For a long time, Sweden's governments have been relatively passive on the issue of the renewal of the Swedish tax agreements. We in the Swedish Democrats have pointed out in our budget motions the importance of continually renewing the bilateral tax agreements so that they better reflect the international reality. It can be noted with some irony that the Tax Committee and the Riksdag only discussed and repealed a regulation on double taxation agreements that we had with the Soviet Union in 2019 – something that can be taken into account for how outdated and sometimes obsolete Sweden's bilateral tax agreements can be. This should clearly illustrate the need for their renewal. Madam President, I would like As has been said before, the tax treaty that Sweden has with Greece is very old; it was signed in 1961. It is one of the oldest tax treaties we still have. It is even older than the tax treaty we had with the Soviet Union, which was signed in 1982. The government now chooses to terminate the tax treaty with Greece even before a new agreement is in place. We find this regrettable and show something about the government's negligence in dealing with tax agreements. As regards the current tax agreement with Greece, Sweden has waived the right to tax certain income such as pensions, dividends and capital gains from the source State. The intention is that they should be taxed up to a reasonable limit in the country where they live. In 2020, the Greek Government has introduced a so-called FP regime. If you are a foreigner and a pensioner and have income originating outside Greece, you can apply for FP status and can then receive income from abroad with only 7% taxation. At the same time, the average Greek citizen has to pay up to 54% in tax on his income. We also know that Greece is one of the countries with the most difficulties in getting its decided taxes in place. At the same time, it is one of the countries that receives the most funding from the EU. Given that Sweden has now also decided to contribute around 150 billion to the Corona Fund established by the EU, which only the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party voted against and which Greece is now very likely to have large parts of, it is hardly reasonable to sponsor a tax-driven move-in from other EU countries. Madam President, I would like Although we do not oppose the proposal in substance, we see that there is no overall view of the tax agreements. What we are opposed to, however, is the heated rhetoric used by the government representatives to advocate the termination of the tax agreements with Portugal and Greece, which have used prejudiced and derogatory epithet on those who have chosen to move to these countries. Tax agreements are already so outdated and old-fashioned that renegotiating these agreements is legitimate without such an epithet having to be thrown into the media debate. Madam President, I would like Those who live abroad and are to tax their income in Sweden have the opportunity to apply for what we call SINK-tax, a special income tax for foreign residents. It was raised in 2018 by the current government from 20 to 25 percent. On this issue, we Swedish democrats believe that the rate for SINK should be restored to 20% as those living abroad often have to pay for services and services financed in Sweden through the tax bill. Madam President, I would like Finally, we can only hope that the government will get a new tax treaty with Greece as soon as possible. At the same time, there is every reason for the government to take a more comprehensive approach to renewal, including our other international tax treaties, in order to bring them more modern, fairer and in line with the internationalised world in which we live.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-149	Madam President, I would like As we have heard, the tax agreement with Greece was signed in 1961 and is thus one of Sweden's oldest tax treaties with other countries. It has never been renegotiated, and that, of course, speaks for the fact that there are several parts of the agreement that need to be changed. No, it is never desirable to have an uncontracted permit, but the Center Party supports the view that there is still reason to do this because there is currently little incentive for Greece to start negotiations on a new agreement in parallel. As we have also heard here, Greece introduced in 2020 a special tax regime whereby, under certain conditions, several income, such as dividends, capital gains and pensions, are only taxed at 7% in Greece. This is contrary to the agreement, and contracting parties must respect each other. There are many reasons why companies and individuals choose to settle in countries other than Sweden. Personally, I find it difficult to believe that taxation on occupational pensions is the strongest reason. That is why, Madam President, tax systems should be predictable and not changed by one party, as happened in the case of Greece last year. It is therefore particularly regrettable – I would like to emphasise that it is very regrettable – that representatives of the government make it sound like Swedish citizens acting on purpose and will only for one purpose: to escape tax. I hope that from now on we will avoid this kind of rhetoric from the representatives of the government. Having said that, we still support the proposal.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-155	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stating that all parties agree with the proposal to terminate tax treaties with Greece and also with Portugal, which we will discuss in the next debate. This is an agreement that was concluded very many years ago to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and wealth. Last year Greece introduced special tax rules allowing pensioners moving to Greece to pay only 7% in tax on income that has its source outside Greece over a 15-year period. The tax agreement with Greece now means that Sweden as a source state with the new rules is prevented from taxing dividends, capital gains and pensions in the way that Sweden can and wants. These revenues can often amount to very large amounts. Since the right to tax under the agreement ceases immediately when a person becomes resident in Greece, tax planning can take place with a relatively short time horizon. That is why, like the government, we believe that the agreement needs to be terminated. Otherwise, this risks creating a lengthy process and, in the meantime, tax planning can continue, which would be totally unacceptable. Nor should we fall for agreements that attract rich citizens.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-159	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a trade-dependent country. The value of Swedish exports represents almost half of our GDP. We have a number of large exporting companies that employ a great many people. In order for this exchange to work as seamlessly as possible, it is important that Sweden has well-functioning tax agreements with other countries. It is therefore fundamentally regrettable that tax treaties should be terminated without a new agreement in place. It creates uncertainty and reduces predictability, so there is absolutely nothing to be done casually. In this case, however, there are reasons for the termination of the agreement. The functioning of a tax agreement requires mutual respect between the contracting parties. The fact that Greece has introduced specific tax rules for certain groups shows a lack of respect for Sweden as a contracting party. At the same time, Greece is receiving substantial support from countries such as Sweden, which several have mentioned in the past. That is why we also support the government's proposal to terminate the agreement, but I would strongly urge the government to work hard to get a new agreement in place as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like I also share the criticism of the heated rhetoric of the Minister for Finance. Helena Bouveng, the fellow Member from the Moderates, mentioned several good reasons that a person may have for moving from Sweden. Unfortunately, May may also be added to that list. I support the committee's proposal.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-164	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I have quite a severe pollen allergy. That's why my nose is clogged. It's not because of anything else. I would have liked this report, which deals with the termination of tax agreements with Greece, and the forthcoming report, which deals with the termination of tax agreements with Portugal, to have been dealt with in a joint debate. There will be a lot of repetitions. But now it's what it is, and I guess it'll get a little nagging. For me and the Liberals, there are two different starting points in these reports. One is the principled perspective of the agreements themselves. The second is an ideological starting point, which I shall return to in the next debate. If we stick to the tax agreement with Greece and why we Liberals have supported the government's proposal to terminate this particular agreement, it is about Sweden not being able to conclude an agreement with a country that does not take responsibility and lives up to its share of the commitments. Agreements that are only respected by one party, Sweden, risk undermining confidence in the Swedish tax system. We cannot have such a system. It also runs the risk of eliminating the EU's internal market and the common rules of the game if a party fails to live up to the tax treaties entered into. Greece has unilaterally introduced special tax rules for people who choose to leave Sweden and settle in Greece. The fact that people choose to live in another EU country is not the problem. It is part of European cooperation that people themselves should be able to choose where they want to live. So this is not the basis for the criticism that this debate is about. Instead, it is a question of preventing Sweden from implementing taxation according to the principles that should guide the tax agreement. That, of course, is not acceptable. Moreover, as colleagues have pointed out earlier in the debate, the agreement with Greece is one of the oldest. It is about time we got a new and updated agreement that both parties are behind. I would also like the government to have tried to get a new agreement in place before this agreement is terminated. There is a risk that individuals and companies will end up in a vacuum if we do not get a new agreement in place after the end of the year. That, of course, is not good. In the situation we are now in, where Greece does not live up to its part of the agreement, there is no alternative. However, it is of the utmost importance that the government immediately initiates new negotiations with the Greek Government, so that we have a new agreement in place. Madam President, I would like I was going to stay here in this debate. All the arguments that it is necessary to terminate the agreement have already been put forward. However, I would like to take this opportunity to mark, at the end of my speech, also against the Swedish Minister for Finance and the kind of rather populist move that she took the opportunity to make in March, when we and the government had agreed together that the agreement would be terminated. Then she used the press and media epithet and concepts of people from whom the Liberals strongly disapprove. I shall return to precisely the ideological aspect of this, but I will do so in my speech in the next debate. With this, I would like to endorse the proposal and refer to the specific opinion of the Liberals.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-177	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating two tax treaties to be terminated – the first is about Greece and the second is about Portugal. Many arguments and information have already been put forward. This is not a desirable situation in any way, but it is a necessary last resort. As has been said, Greece has since last year opted for pensioners with income from other countries in the EU to pay only 7% in tax. The current agreement prevents Sweden from taxing dividends, capital gains and pensions according to the current contract policy that Sweden has. As I said, the agreement is old, 60 years old, and lacks minimum provisions to prevent tax evasion. The government has communicated to the Greek government that it is ready to renegotiate the agreement but without hearing for it. In the Green Party, we are fighting against tax evasion and against destructive rules and agreements. Competing countries with offering the lowest tax on capital, profits or income is a race to the bottom that risks eroding the base of the welfare state in the long run. Instead, we want to see a policy for a common minimum level within the EU and for corporate tax, for example, also globally. Madam President, I would like A state of contractlessness is not desirable, but it is less desirable to end up in a situation that goes against Sweden's contract policy. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-183	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. With this proposal, it will no longer be possible to move to Portugal to take out private occupational pensions entirely or almost tax-free. The proposal provides for the expiry of the tax agreement with Portugal on 31 December 2021. The agreement will therefore no longer apply from the tax year 2022. For previous tax years, the agreement remains applicable. The reasons for the termination of the agreement are the targeted rules introduced in Portugal, which specialise in the taxation of income received by residents from, for example, Sweden. As regards the taxation of all forms of pensions, the Swedish tax treaty policy has long been that the source State, i.e. the State from which a pension is paid in a cross-border situation, should have the primary right of taxation. As a result of the tax agreements preventing Sweden from taxing the income concerned, total taxation has been very low or, in some cases, none at all. It creates incentives for people to move from Sweden to these countries mainly for tax reasons. This was not intended at the time of the conclusion of the agreements. For a long time, for almost four years, the government has been having discussions with the Portuguese Government about amending the agreement. In May 2019, a Protocol was signed amending the Agreement, which Sweden has ratified. However, Portugal has not yet ratified the Protocol, nor has it indicated that ratification is imminent. That is why the agreement is now being terminated. The issue of Portugal's ratification of the Amending Protocol signed in May 2019 has been raised at all political levels, including Prime Minister level. These contacts have made it clear to the Portuguese Government that the agreement would be terminated if the protocol was not ratified within a reasonable time. It is not acceptable that a country can freely decide when an agreement with Sweden will be implemented. This is not going in and deciding what the tax rules of Portugal are. However, they cannot decide on our rules, and most other EU countries' rules, that taxation should take place when pensions are levied when they are not previously taxed. The agreements have meant that very high income through planning can be completely tax-free or taxed very low. It is fundamentally incompatible with our tax system and confidence in it. When we see such effects, we in Sweden must be free to terminate the agreement. Madam President, I would like Portugal is a fine country, and there may be many reasons to move there, as well as Greece. However, I would also like to point out this: since the exodus has been tenfold since Portugal introduced its zero taxation of private occupational pensions in 2009, we can see that there is a strong link between the tax rules and our agreement and the exodus to Portugal, linked to private occupational pensions. On the other hand, they have often far lower pensions, such as health professionals, teachers and other employees in municipalities and regions, have not been covered. They are therefore not affected by this proposal either. Even if we want a tax treaty – it is quite clear, and the government has worked too long – it is high time that this particular tax agreement did not go on. Madam President, I would like Of course, in an increasingly common Europe, citizens should be able to move whenever they want and write in any Member State. We Social Democrats also believe that it is the nation states that own their tax policies, and it should not be subject to any European uniformity for devaluation purposes. A relatively high tax charge on broad tax bases is and remains the basis for building and developing welfare, regardless of the country in question. It is therefore important, in relations between the Member States, for example, to close holes in the tax system, such as the one we have had with Portugal, through tax treaties. Portugal is a net contributor to money from the EU Recovery Fund, which came into being in connection with the Corona outbreak, while Sweden pays more money to the fund than we get back. This makes it particularly remarkable that countries such as Portugal and Greece want to attract other EU citizens with low taxes. It is gratifying that all the parties in the committee support the proposal and say yes to this proposal.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-193	Madam President, I would like I remember that we ran into each other at some point on Drottninggatan, and I could not help but ask: Is it not incredibly boring to hear these debates? When I think of this debate, I am thinking: Madam President, I am sure that we will soon be able to give a full talk on tax agreements in the case of Portugal and Greece, so I would like to propose to the President as a speaker and expert on tax agreements, specifically in the case of Portugal and Greece. But, Madam President, it is bad for Sweden and Swedish citizens that tax agreements with other countries should be terminated. That is something that should be avoided. It creates uncertainty and lack of predictability for individuals and businesses. We can only regret this dismissal. The reason why the agreements are being terminated in the case of both Greece and Portugal is that these countries are in fact failing to comply with their agreements. The starting point for tax treaties is generally that no income should be double-taxed and that all income should be taxed, or simply expressed: All income should be taxed once. An agreement regulates which country has the right to tax. The tax rate applicable determines the country with the right to tax. Madam President, I would like However, it is crucial that Sweden is clear about the countries with which agreements are concluded and that these countries also need to comply with what has been agreed. Portugal has not ratified the decision it signed with Sweden when the tax treaty was subject to an adjustment some time ago. Sweden agreed with Portugal on a new tax treaty to put in place a tax-paying scheme on its occupational pension. It is unacceptable to accept a system whereby Sweden and other countries agree on changes to tax treaties but where the other party then in practice does not live up to what has actually been agreed. The agreements concluded by Sweden with other countries must be respected. The same was tried with Finland. It didn't go very well there either. I very much hope that Portugal realises that it simply cannot behave in this way. Portugal has not lived up to its commitments and ratified the Protocol. There are consequences. In practice, therefore, tax-driven arrangements have been able to continue, where Swedes can repackage salaries and dividends to occupational pensions, move to Portugal for five years and collect the amount entirely tax-free. Occupational pensions will be taxed at 25% in the non-contractual permit – it is the so-called SINK. There will be no double taxation. Pensions other than occupational pensions are not affected at all. If Portugal had approved the agreement in its Parliament, the tax would have remained at 10% and would have fallen to Portugal instead of Sweden. I think that our Swedish citizens who have chosen to move to Portugal should ask the Portuguese Government why they did not do this. With a moderate government, we would have used the EU, the OECD and several organisations to actually force Portugal to implement the agreement. We had thus not put Swedish citizens and Swedish companies in this unfortunate situation. Negotiating a new agreement will probably take a long time. However, if Portugal ratifys the agreement, the government will withdraw its proposal. Let's hope for the best. But again: It is incredibly remarkable that the Swedish Minister for Finance devotes his energies to blaming those Swedes who, with insulting rhetoric, choose to use freedom of movement within the EU and settle in Portugal for various reasons. The rhetoric of the Minister for Finance is both vulgar and exaggerated. The Minister of Finance's statements also undermine Sweden's position and counteract Swedish interests. There is no reason to criticise those Swedish citizens who, after a long working life, for example, have settled in Portugal. A Swedish Minister for Finance should be on the side of Swedish citizens and not criticise those citizens who comply with current rules and laws. Once again, I note that the Socialist colleague Anna Vikström indicates that people move to Portugal solely for fiscal and economic reasons, although she slightly revised her position in this debate. I'm thinking of November, December, January, February, March, April, and we'll have to add May, as my colleague Hampus Hagman said. I'm just saying: sun-warm tomatoes and boule games instead of Home to the village in front of the TV in the townhouse or whatever it may be. The Portuguese Government has received information from the Swedish Government, which intends to withdraw the termination of the tax treaty if Portugal ratifys the Protocol before the Parliament votes on the matter in June. It's a short time. Sweden's criticism should be directed solely at the Portuguese Government and not at the Swedes who, for various reasons, settled in Portugal. Unfortunately, the Minister for Finance has made a completely different assessment here. European cooperation and the free movement of people in the Union create great opportunities and must be protected. However, it is not reasonable for countries such as Sweden to assume a high level of financial responsibility for the economies of southern European countries through large loans and grants, while countries such as Portugal maintain tax exemptions for certain groups from other countries. It should be pointed out in this context that there are good reasons to reduce the SINK tax in the future in order to bring about a more balanced taxation of Swedes living abroad. The government's increase in the SINK tax from 20% to 25% during the previous term of office was unjustified. Madam President, I would like Despite these comments, the Moderates support the position on the government proposal. It is unacceptable to conclude agreements with Sweden which are not then being held, hence our joint reservation with the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-208	Madam President, I would like This is not a desirable situation. It is not a good thing that two European governments are fighting each other, for lack of better words, and that Sweden is now cancelling the tax agreement between Portugal and Sweden without it being absolutely clear what the exact consequences are. This has also led to some upset feelings. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has called it a cream for the economic elite and says that there has been an injustice between this elite and ordinary people who are now to be eliminated. The fact that this is the main and main reason for the proposal being put forward, said the Minister of Finance at a press conference on 22 March. The Minister of Finance's choice of words has been interpreted with some right as insinuations that the Swedes who have chosen to move to Portugal would have done something wrong and that it is they who are responsible for the situation that has arisen, which is quite absurd. At the same time, we who sit on the tax committee have received some angry letters from several of the Swedes who have chosen to move to Portugal. They believe that they moved there according to the rules in force, and now the Swedish government proposes to change the rules of the game. This is certainly relevant criticism, but if you are to point the finger here, you should point to the person responsible for the situation that has arisen, and that is the Portuguese Social Democratic Government. The Portuguese Government has chosen not to ratify the voluntary agreement between Sweden and Portugal. I don't know why they've chosen to act that way. There may be a difference in culture between Sweden and Portugal. Here in Sweden we think that agreements should be kept, while the Portuguese Government seems to think that agreements concluded can be considered to possibly hold some time in the future, if you feel like it. I chose to say that maybe it's about a difference in culture. It should not, of course, be a question of difference in ideology, because the Portuguese Government is also Social Democratic. If you are to blame the Swedish Government for something, it is surely because you have failed in your diplomatic relations with the comrades in the Portuguese Government. In Sweden, as I said, we are building our society on the fact that agreements are to be kept. This applies to business-to-business, and that applies to the labour market. If you have signed a collective agreement, it is of course not only the employee who must keep his share, but the employer must of course also keep his share. One cannot unilaterally choose to just ignore an agreement. This also applies between countries. If one party chooses not to keep its share of the agreement, there must be consequences. This applies regardless of culture and ideology. It is simply about Sweden's credibility. Madam President, I would like I found an article on the Europa portal with the title. Portugal can borrow 700 billion. It also states that by using the EU budget as a guarantee, Sweden also takes part of the risk with an amount of SEK 9 billion. This article is certainly ten years old, but I also came to think of the Corona Support Fund, to which Sweden just recently sent SEK 150 billion, which, incidentally, the Swedish Democrats voted against in this House. In view of this and the fact that the Corona Support Fund is likely to also benefit Portugal, it is particularly important that Portugal chooses to treat Sweden as a doormat in this case and imagines that they will unilaterally be able to withdraw from an agreement without having any consequences whatsoever. It would be best if the agreement could have been kept and that both Sweden and Portugal had acted in accordance with the agreement reached. Now that this is not the case, and Portugal chooses not to ratify the agreement, it only remains to terminate the agreement in order to maintain Sweden's credibility as a negotiating party. We have chosen not to reserve ourselves against the bill, but we would like to emphasise that we do not support the tone and generalisations expressed by the government and its representatives about the Swedes who have nevertheless chosen to move to Portugal.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-220	Madam President, I would like Rarely have I read and learned so much about tax treaties as I have for this day. We note that the tax agreement between Sweden and Portugal was concluded in 2002. In 2009, Portugal introduced rules whereby certain pensions are subject to double non-taxation, i.e. totally untaxed. This, of course, was not the idea at the time the tax agreement was concluded in 2002. As we have heard, Sweden therefore raised the issue of renegotiating the tax agreement in 2017. After lengthy negotiations, a protocol was signed amending it. Sweden ratified the Protocol so that a new Agreement could apply and apply, but Portugal has not ratified the Amending Protocol. Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is not good for Sweden and Swedish citizens that tax agreements with other countries should be terminated. That is something that should be avoided. It creates uncertainty and lack of predictability for individuals and businesses. What, then, may be the consequences of this? With the dismissal, Swedish companies operating in Portugal are at risk of being taxed in more cases than is currently the case. Companies in Portugal may also be hit by higher taxation of payments from Portugal in terms of dividends, interest, royalty etc. However, in the corporate sector, there is EU-wide legislation on restrictions on withholding tax within the EU, reducing these negative effects. In Sweden, there is internal legislation for the elimination of double taxation in the Act on the Deduction of Foreign Taxes. The Settlement Act also provides for this possibility in cases where there is no applicable tax treaty, thereby alleviating the negative effects of termination of the tax agreement with Portugal. Madam President, I would like It is fundamentally regrettable that the agreement should be terminated. However, Sweden should be clear about the countries it concludes agreements with that these countries also need to comply with what has been agreed. Once again, it is remarkable that the Swedish Minister for Finance uses such insulting rhetoric to blame those Swedes who, for various reasons, choose to move and use freedom of movement within the EU. The rhetoric of the Minister for Finance has been vulgar and greatly exaggerated. There is no reason to criticise the Swedish citizens who, after a long working life, for example, settle in Portugal. A Swedish finance minister should be on the side of the citizen and not on any kind of opposing side. This also strikes back, not only against the individual citizens, but also against the companies operating in the country. I still claim that there are plenty of reasons for wanting to move abroad in older days, and although the Socialist Member indicates the opposite, I do not believe that the provision of pension contracts is a decisive factor. We should acknowledge that people want to move within the EU, not to work against it. The criticism must be directed against the Portuguese Government, not against the Swedes who, for various reasons, have settled in Portugal. In conclusion, I think that this is a serious violation by the Swedish Minister for Finance. It leads to disrespect. We feel disrespect in this House, which is voting on this proposal today. It is disrespectful to the cooperation parties, and it is probably disrespectful to its own colleagues in the government. That's my guess. European cooperation and mobility in the Union create opportunities and must be protected. However, as we have heard, it is not reasonable for Sweden to assume a great deal of financial responsibility for the economies of southern European countries, while Portugal in this case maintains tax exemptions for certain groups from other countries. The Center Party is also strongly critical of the government raising the SINK tax during the last term of office. It needs to be reviewed and restored. Despite these comments, the Center Party supports the Committee's position on the Government proposal because we consider it unacceptable that agreements concluded with Sweden should not be kept. We have also expressed this together with other parties, with M, KD and L, in a separate opinion.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-231	Madam President, I would like Sweden has several tax treaties with other countries to avoid double taxation and tax evasion. When it comes to the tax agreement that is being debated today with regard to Portugal, there has been a situation in which the tax agreement actually allows people moving from Sweden to Portugal to continue to withdraw certain pensions from Sweden completely untaxed. That is, of course, totally unacceptable and was not the purpose of the tax agreement when it was concluded from the outset. The occupational pensions that people living in Portugal receive from Sweden, and which are not currently taxed, will simply be taxed. It is reasonable at the moment, but it is not a party that wants an unsettled situation. Today's rules have created incentives for people to move to Portugal, for example, for tax reasons, i.e. to circumvent or avoid paying tax. This, of course, damages the confidence and legitimacy of the Swedish tax system. We simply cannot have a tax treaty that creates opportunities for tax planning. It is regrettable that Portugal is introducing special rules in its internal legislation to attract capital-strong people in this way. We in the Left Party believe that the proposal on the table needs to be approved and that the government should urgently negotiate a tax treaty with Portugal with a view to avoiding double taxation and tax planning.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-235	Madam President, I would like As in the previous debate, I would like to begin by stating that tax agreements are important for Sweden. Termination of a tax treaty is absolutely nothing to be done lightly. It creates uncertainty and reduces predictability for both individuals and businesses. However, there are strong reasons in this case for this being the right way forward. The functioning of a tax treaty requires fundamental respect between the contracting parties. Portugal's actions show that this respect is lacking. Then Sweden must act. It is not sustainable to accept that a party with whom we have concluded an agreement does not live up to its commitments. We therefore support the content of the bill, which provides for the termination of the agreement. However, I would like to stress that I too believe that the rhetoric of the Minister for Finance in this matter deserves harsh criticism. As Minister of Finance, devoting effort and time to criticising and blaming those Swedes who, after a long working life, have chosen to settle in Portugal is deeply unworthy. We Christian Democrats certainly do not support her rhetoric. The Minister of Finance should focus solely on criticising the Portuguese Government, which has not lived up to its commitments, rather than criticising the Swedes who have exploited the freedom of movement for which we owe Europe. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-238	Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous speech, we in the Liberals have two starting points for both these reports. The first perspective is, of course, about the principle, as I explained in the previous debate, but it can be repeated briefly again. Of course, Sweden cannot enter into tax agreements with countries that do not live up to their share of the commitments. As with the Greek agreement, Portugal has also introduced special tax rules which provide for a special status for residents and therefore do not have to pay tax on, for example, private occupational pensions for a maximum period of 10 years. As the Government states in the bill, it was not the intention when the tax agreement was concluded with Portugal. So on this point we Liberals agree with the government on the absurdity of maintaining this agreement, which risks undermining confidence in the Swedish tax system. But, Madam President, what I strongly reject is how Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson published this agreement between the government and the other parties of the Riksdag at a press conference in March. Trying to pick cheap domestic political points by collectively stamping all Swedes who for various reasons after a hard career choose to move to another EU country with that it is an elite in Sweden that should not have a sour cream file are horrifying statements. We strongly disassociate ourselves from them. This shows once again the distinctive features of the Social Democrats to attack people who have worked hard throughout their working lives and saved their own money. It is also a question of already taxed money. With that money, or having sold the house, the villa, the townhouse, the right-of-occupancy property, you choose to get some gold edge on your life after you retire. This may mean choosing another country with more warmth, more sun, another culture or Mediterranean food. What could be wrong with that? Do not individuals have the right to decide over their own lives? These people call the Swedish Finance Minister a greedy elite. Has it ever struck the Social Democrats that people may not want to be dependent on the state, us politicians or least on the Swedish Social Democratic Workers' Party to secure their own future? Has it ever occurred to a social democrat that people in Sweden are conscientious, have high tax standards, gladly pay taxes to the public, in order for us all to have access to good welfare, but in return requires good conditions and not to be pointed out as a greedy villain for having saved up for their own future? I honestly do not understand why people are so obsessed with fighting wealth. Wouldn't it be better if we fought poverty, which is a major problem? Why cannot decency prevail in this country? What signal is sent to young people about the importance of saving, standing on their own feet, being financially independent? The reason why I lift up these perspectives is not to try to score some cheap points myself but because it is a big ideological difference in the view of the individual's freedom and the dependence or independence to the state that Swedish citizens should or should not have. It is also about companies that are established in both Greece and Portugal and people who have taken great risks in order to realise their life dreams. Now we are going to use the suspension of a tax treaty to attack individuals. I find this deeply worrying. What remains now is to terminate the agreement. But it is also important that, in the case of Portugal too, negotiations with the government should be made quickly. As one colleague mentioned, it should not be so difficult because it is two social democratic-led governments that could get along better. For me and the Liberals, it is about getting a new agreement in order not to put individuals and companies in a vacuum when the existing agreement is terminated. In this context, it may be worth mentioning the SINK tax, which has also been raised in the debate, and the increase made from 20% to 25%. We will see in the future a world where more people will want to settle in another country, not least within the EU. It is like the essence of European cooperation, and then we should not make it difficult for people to do so. Even in the future, people must be able to decide whether they want to use their hard-earned money in Sweden or in Portugal, Greece or any other country. I therefore hope that the government will now urgently ensure that a new agreement is in place. With this, Madam President, I support the proposal. I would also like to refer to the joint statement of the Moderates, Christian Democrats, Centers and Liberals.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-251	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Two years ago an agreement was signed between Sweden and Portugal, but it is an agreement that Portugal has chosen not to ratify. Regardless of the right – left – scale, we can agree that this is a situation that is not desirable or sustainable. The failure of Portugal to ratify is unacceptable. It creates a disadvantageous and unfair situation for Sweden. Like the tax agreement with Greece, mentioned earlier in the debate, Sweden is now choosing to terminate this agreement. Madam President, I would like I will stay there because my committee colleagues have already mentioned many good arguments in these debates. Thank you for the floor.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-255	Madam President, I would like Transporting people or goods by air is the fastest means of transport for long distances. Flying enables meetings between people from all countries of the world. It is not surprising, then, that flying has increased sharply in the world in recent decades. But the world's rapidly growing aeronautics industry also has clear backsides, not least for the environment and climate. Emissions from world flying have doubled in the last 20 years, and if nothing is done, emissions will continue to rise sharply. Had the aviation sector been a single country, it would have been at the top of ten among the world's worst emitters. This development is not sustainable. Strong measures must therefore be taken to reduce the environmental and climate load of aviation. We in the Left Party believe that far too little is being done to reduce the environmental and climate impact of aviation. The Swedish airline tax was a welcome step forward, but it is far from enough. Mandatory biofuel interference will reduce emissions only to a limited extent, as has also emerged from the government's investigation in this area – which also raises questions about biodiversity and how much biofuels are actually available. Electrification and other technical solutions are well ahead and will not reduce emissions from aviation in the near future. We in the Left Party therefore want to see measures that reduce flying and emissions. A few steps in this direction could be to: Introduce a progressive flight tax so that those who fly a lot get higher taxes Abolition of the tax exemption on aviation fuel as Sweden currently subsidises aviation with just over SEK 8 billion each year and the majority is that aviation does not pay taxes on its own fuel
i-f69c2a2c13238947-261	abolition of subsidies to airports other than where they are justified for reasons of preparedness or regional policy; 中 developing sustainable means of transport, mainly the train, as an alternative to aviation Take advantage of the lessons we have learned during the pandemic and invest in good broadband across Sweden so that digital meetings become an alternative to air travel 中 invest in sustainable biofuels and electrified aircraft 中 decommission Bromma airport and other unnecessary airports. Madam President, I would like The aviation sector has been hit very hard during the pandemic. At the same time, a crisis is also an opportunity. Now that the crisis is falling off and the Swedish economy is to be restarted, it cannot be an option to return to previous, high flight levels. Many routes can and should be replaced by trains and increased digital work. In other words, with the right support, it is possible to steer towards more sustainable transport. In this respect, the government's actions so far have been a great disappointment. During the pandemic, the S-MP government has subsidised the aviation industry with nearly SEK 16 billion. This is more than twice as much as aid to regional public transport during the pandemic and eight times as much as aid to the rail sector during the pandemic. It's time to change this. Support sustainable transport and promote increased digital work, so we can reduce flying and aviation emissions significantly! Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party have long been pushing for Bromma airport to be decommissioned. Brommaflygnet can easily be transferred to Arlanda and replaced with increased digital work and travel by train. There is a great opportunity to transform today's airport area into a vibrant neighbourhood with tens of thousands of new homes, workplaces and green areas. Such a transformation is also fully in line with national and local environmental objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing noise and improving public health. Swedavia, which owns and operates our state airports including Bromma and Arlanda, has now also appealed to the government to phase out Bromma airport. Brommaflygnet can easily be transferred to Arlanda and replaced by trains and digital meetings," Swedavia points out. That is why, Madam President, I am very surprised that the bourgeois parties plus the Swedish Democrats are now pushing for Bromma airport to remain at all costs. The consequence of this will be large state subsidies to maintain an airport from which no one is flying. What's the logic of that? The government has already allocated SEK 3.15 billion in state aid to Swedavia. That subsidy policy will continue with the bourgeois plus SD proposals. This is eye-catching. The Moderates and other right-wing parties are cutting back on aid for the unemployed and long-term ill, but they are obviously going to continue subsidising everything. Why? Therefore, I would like to ask the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals: How much more government subsidies will you plow down in Bromma airport? You should have an answer to that question, because you are the one who has put forward the proposal that Bromma airport should remain. Madam President, I would like Instead, let us take the chance to do something better. Bromma airport has served us well, but now it's time to thank you for this time. Let's build a new sustainable district in western Stockholm with thousands of new homes, green areas, schools, preschools, sports grounds and workplaces. Let's phase out Bromma Airport! Madam President, I would like I call for the Left Party's, the Social Democrats' and the Green Party's reservation number 3 and for the two special opinions of the Left Party. I propose rejecting the committee's proposal for an announcement on Bromma airport.
i-765f5dR8H1YUF9av44PvFp	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3 by Mr S, Mr V and Mr MP and the other proposals by the Committee on Transport and Tourism. Madam President, I would like When we discussed aviation issues last year, I could not even dream that a year later we would be in a similar position. Maybe we're not really in the same position we were for a year ago-- things have changed-- but the area that's been hit hardest is aviation. Flying has decreased drastically, and the number of flying hours continues to be small. The aircraft are stuck on the ground, and we are now seeing a wave of bankruptcies among air operators. The assessment that has been heard recently is that it will take a very long time before the flight recovers. Today, various companies are already hearing that they will reduce their travel by about 50% and use digital services. It is good that there are now technologies that can help us when the times are as they are. It is clear, however, that this does not help airlines to recover and that the same adjustments must be made in the aviation industry as other companies have done. It can be about flying smarter, cheaper, with smaller planes and more environmentally friendly. It can also be about cooperation between companies and about different fuel options. This is where you have the chance to change things for the better. It is therefore a good idea to decide on environmentally responsible take-off and landing charges at certain airports in Sweden. However, this also needs to be done in the EU and in the world. Madam President, I would like Innovations have always helped people to cope with crises, find new ways to do things, make life easier or cure diseases. Today, there are many examples of human progress. There are smart cities that help you find your way when you're there as a tourist. There are smart phones, which today have become even smarter. There should also be smart airports, where the technology goes together with the flight to do lots of things. This can range from controlling traffic at or around the airport to helping prevent threats and terror. Autonomous airports are an idea that looks into the future, and where Sweden can wear a leadership shirt. Imagine that a package that has been shipped by any airline is suddenly delivered to your home on the same day with a drone. You may think that this is far into the future, but it does not – technology and conditions already exist today. At airports there are drones that can, if necessary, help us save lives, find a forest fire or find a person who has lost his way in the forest. This technology can already be used from our airports. Madam President, I would like While we are talking about innovations, I can say that I am glad that we will soon have Swedish electric flights in the air. This will give our elongated country better opportunities to fly both environmentally smarter and more efficient. There is a lot – and a lot of excitement – that is happening in this area, despite the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Already before the pandemic, air travel began to decrease in Sweden. It was seen that people chose other ways to travel. Therefore, several airports had problems. More and more regional airports had to raise money from their owners to survive. Ängelholm Airport is an example where private owners gave up and the municipalities took over. Therefore, it was no surprise to anyone when Swedavia informed the committee that the wisest and most economical way for Stockholm and Sweden was to phase out Bromma. It began to be discussed livelyly, and different interests stood against each other. In 2038, the lease will expire for Bromma Airport, with which it will cease. The idea has not been for Bromma airport to exist forever. When the foundation folds and things change, you have to reconsider your previous positions. The opposition persistently refuses to see the fact that Bromma does not have the same conditions as Arlanda for further development and that the place Bromma airport is located could become a new district in our capital city, which needs to build more housing. You don't see the fact that there are lots of people living around Bromma airport and that the disaster is inevitable if something happens. One does not see the fact that the environment and noise around the airport are not good for those living around the airport. Madam President, I would like Driving Bromma airport further is not only a matter of safety but also a question of Sweden's future. Anyone involved in aviation matters knows how important an international airport is to a country. For me, it is above all about strengthening Sweden's position on the international stage. For us in an export-dependent country, it is important that we have an airport that can directly get us out into the world. As things stand, this airport is becoming Kastrup instead of Arlanda. Arlanda loses direct lines, and Kastrup opens new ones. Arlanda will soon be a feeder airport for Kastrup. Is this the way we're going? For me, this is an absolutely crucial issue. We need to strengthen Arlanda so that more companies choose to establish themselves in Sweden. We need to strengthen Arlanda's competitiveness so that more direct lines can be established. Now we have a chance to do this. The assessment that Swedavia and many others make is that it will take time for flights to recover. Services globally have fallen sharply, and several assessors say that the development of technology during the pandemic has led more companies to realise how they can save money and the environment by having digital meetings. In an interview, Ericsson says that their business travellers have decreased by 90 percent globally and 95 percent nationally. More and more global companies want to be climate neutral because they see the importance of protecting the environment. But they also see that their employees feel better not to travel all the time and that the meetings can now be done digitally. Therefore, the situation of the aviation industry is not the same as that of past crises, such as the Nine eleven, or the financial crisis. Many more have realized that working from home works very well, and the need to meet in the same way as in the past has greatly decreased. Madam President, I would like The Government has appointed a special investigator to return with his report to the Government in August 2021. In any case, we could agree to see what this report concludes in order to then make wise decisions. But in their eagerness to resist, the opposition cannot even wait for the report but thinks that Bromma should evolve. We do not know what Bromma airport will develop into – it will be closed in 2038.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-295	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that Bromma airport should be closed, so I would like to ask Mr Denis another question. When the pandemic hit spring 2020 in Sweden, it was the aviation sector that received the first Corona support that the government went out and granted. There were credit guarantees of SEK 5 billion to airlines, of which SEK 1.5 billion to SAS. Then the subsidies to the aviation sector have been as rods on the slopes during the pandemic. Overall, as I said in my speech, the aviation industry has received SEK 16 billion in Corona support from the government. These 16 billion can be compared to the targeted aid that has been promised to the rail sector, which is about SEK 2.4 billion. So it is more than seven times as much money for the flight as for the railways. The flight is very hard hit during the pandemic, not two talk about it. But it's also train travel. Train travel has gone down by about 65 percent, and air travel has gone down by about 80 percent. So it is true that aviation is even more affected, but there is something about the proportions in this that I do not really get together – especially when it comes to a government that says it wants to reduce emissions from the transport sector. That is why I would like to ask Mr Denis: does Mr Denis think that the proportion is well balanced when we give so much subsidies to the aviation sector and so little to the rail industry?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for your question! First of all, I have to say that I am of the opinion that we should not always compare all types of traffic with each other, because they have their different ways of transporting us. The government chose to give money to SAS, among other things, and that is because the State is part of the owners of SAS. Others also put money in SAS. It is also about how, after the pandemic, we can restart our economy if we do not have airports that can receive aircraft, if we do not have airlines that can fly from them and if we cannot give them the opportunity to change during the pandemic. Now, if we're going to talk about the proportions, I can't say what's right or what's wrong. On the other hand, one can see that the industry that is most affected is the aviation industry with its employees, who have now been on the ground for about a year and a half – not only in Sweden but in the world. For me, there is no discussion and no talk about anything but that aviation needs support so that eventually, when this changes, we will be able to restart Sweden in a good way. How much money different traffic teams should have, I can't comment on.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-304	Madam President, I would like I think it says something about the priorities of a crisis. The first thing the government does here is to go out and save one industry, the airlines, while another almost as severely affected industry, the rail industry, has to wait for over a year before they get the proposal for a reduction in rail charges, which the government has now put forward. It also says something about the priorities when the government spends seven times as much resources on saving flights as on saving the railways. Then I and the Left Party think that there is a false squeezing and that there is too much to fly and too little to the railways. Now the government has just announced that it will bring its third support package to SAS of SEK 1.5 billion in credit guarantees. The Swedish State is a partner in SAS. But there are also other partners, such as the Wallenberg family, who are a very rich family with a lot of money.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-308	Madam President, I would like Firstly, it must also be seen that at the beginning of the pandemic there were some different proposals from the government about what could be done. Among other things, the regions received an incredible amount of money to ensure that healthcare, public transport and other things work as well as possible. There is therefore money that the regions could have used, among other things, to save part of public transport. It had also been possible, as in the Mälardal part, to use the money to ensure that the railway also gets its share as the public transport it is. Secondly, although the State owns part of SAS, there is, of course, hopefully, a discussion on the boards of the various companies that, among other things, the State owns about how much it contributes. There are no discussions in which I participate; I have no idea how these board meetings are conducted and who is spending how much money. I don't know if the Wallenberg family will add as much to SAS, one and a half billion more. There may be information on this, but we also know that much of what is done in companies is trade secrets. It is sometimes difficult for us to get access to certain papers to see what has happened. I'm afraid to tell you how much the Wallenberg family has given to SAS.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-312	Madam President, I would like This year's aviation report is slightly different from previous years. This year we have included a proposal and a committee initiative in the report. It is both about environmental measures and about the ideological view of aviation as a traffic law. Let me give you a little account of how the Moderates view this. Aviation accounts for a large part of climate emissions in Sweden, and we need to address this – but without hindering the future and development of aviation. Following an earlier announcement by the Swedish Parliament, the government has now returned with a bill on environmentally-governing take-off and landing charges for flights. This is a welcome proposal, as differentiated charges can contribute to a long-term sustainable flight in Sweden. We are, of course, in favour of this; it is fully in line with encouraging good environmental measures. Of course, flying all over the world has been affected by the pandemic when the world has stood still waiting for vaccines and restarts. Sweden is no exception, and it is therefore better to wait for the introduction of the new environmentally-governing take-off and landing charges for a year in order for the aircraft to recover slightly. The government proposes that this should take effect within less than a month, and we are still in the midst of the pandemic. Although vaccination has started and we are starting to restart Sweden and release the Swedish restrictions, we do not know when the pandemic is over and the flight can get started seriously again. The Moderates and Christian Democrats have therefore written a reservation in which we propose that the entry into force be postponed for a year. Madam President, I would like The second part of the report deals with the future of Arlanda and Bromma Airport. Earlier this spring, the government presented two decisions at a press conference. The first action to close down Bromma airport prematurely, and the second decision was to investigate how this should be done. After the press conference, the environmental part of the government celebrated cake publicly. We suspect, however, that the Social Democratic part of the government went home to the Government Office and answered questions from upset municipal councillors throughout Sweden who wondered how this should actually be done. It is not just us Moderates who think that the decision to close down first and then investigate how is a little strange. In the midst of a burning pandemic, the government has asked Swedavia to investigate an early closure of Bromma airport. The report was presented publicly and to the Transport Committee in the form of a short summary on a few pages. The report concluded that Bromma airport was not profitable and could not continue to operate on a commercial basis. It is possible that the investigation showed this, but since we Members of Parliament have not been able to see the government's classified investigation, we have not been able to take note of the content. The Government has not involved Parliament in this decision either, but has taken it itself. This has been done despite the House's announcement of 2016 to continue to develop Bromma airport. Now the government is choosing to go against the will of Parliament and the people. With these changed conditions, we choose to raise the issue by means of a new announcement. The government can't behave in any way just to keep power. Here, a small party's desire to phase out flights is met and therefore fails to anchor the decision in the Riksdag. It is not just us Moderates who find this decision strange and hasty. Voices are heard from both industry and chambers of commerce as well as social democratic councillors around the country. Bromma airport is today a hub for domestic aviation and a prerequisite for fast and efficient transport to and from the country's capital. For a business traveler, time is important, and Bromma plays a major role in ensuring that the business community throughout Sweden functions effectively. Bromma airport is not primarily used as an airport for travelling further out into the world but is a distinctive city-by-city airport for domestic flights. A transfer of domestic flights to Arlanda is not possible today if domestic flights are to maintain efficient travel times. Of course, flying has decreased, as the government points out. But there is a pandemic right now, and it is not only stupid but also wasteful to tear down expensive infrastructure when it may be needed in the future. We do not know what travel will look like in the future, but the forecasts say that flying will return to normal within a ten-year period. Tomorrow's flights can also help us achieve the climate goals we have set ourselves through smarter and cleaner journeys than today's. In the long term, Arlanda will need an additional roller coaster. If it can be built at all, we do not know, because that decision will be taken by the government in the future. There may not be a new roller coaster either as long as the Green Party is in the government. The Green Party has clearly stated that it does not want a new runway at Arlanda because the flight is not important. Arlanda also has an undercapacity for baggage handling and transfer, and the planned expansion is on ice during the pandemic. Transfer to and from Stockholm is either extremely expensive or takes a long time. When companies and industry are to restart Sweden, we have neither the time nor the money to wait any longer for the expansion. Madam President, I would like I know we are not going to discuss municipal issues in this House, but the issue of Bromma airport is linked to agreements made between the State and the City of Stockholm. In addition, the government refers to local housing in its reservation, and I would like to respond to this a little briefly. Yes, more housing needs to be built in Stockholm. It is good for the Swedish economy and for the whole country, and the infrastructure will become even more important when more people are going to move to and from Stockholm. But to think that suddenly a lot of housing will be built in Stockholm just because you take a hasty decision to close Bromma airport prematurely is a bit naive. Instead, Stockholm could start by building housing in Norra Kymlinge. There is a subway line, but the station is deserted because the Green Party does not want housing to be built there. It would be smarter to build where the infrastructure already exists than to demolish Bromma airport because it might be possible to build homes there – something we do not know because the decision has not yet been made. Madam President, I would like Only two weeks ago, the Transport Committee was drawn by entrepreneurs who want to continue operating Bromma airport in their own right. At the same time, the government continues to keep Swedavia's closure report secret for commercial reasons. This is a little strange, because if Bromma airport is not considered to be business-like, but the business community believes it can continue on a business basis, Swedavia's report should no longer be classified. One would almost think that the government does not want to close Bromma airport for business reasons but for ideological reasons. In that case, it would be more honest to admit it. We have now gathered a majority in the Riksdag – just as one should do in a democracy to get through their decisions – for the further development of Bromma airport. It is important that the whole country is able to secure access to fast and efficient communications to and from Stockholm, and Bromma airport, together with Arlanda Airport, performs an important function for the country's flight capacity both now and in the future. Madam President, I would like So to the third part of the report and one of the Moderate reservations. It is about Sweden's regional airports, and there is a connection to the issue of Bromma and Arlanda. As we know, flights have been more or less banned during the pandemic, and regional airports are bleeding economically. All these airports play an important role for society. In recent years we have had horrendous forest fires, and fireplanes have played a crucial role in limiting devastation. During the pandemic, we have also seen how the medical transportation of ambulance aircraft saves lives on a daily basis. It is important to think about Sweden's preparedness for war and conflict. Regional airports play an important role once the crisis is here and therefore cannot be closed down. We want the government to ensure jobs, security, growth and security throughout the country. We therefore believe that Swedavia should take greater responsibility for the 27 regional airports around Sweden. Of course, I support all our reservations in the report, but I only call for reservation 4 on aid to regional airports.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-338	Madam President, I would like The Moderates tend to fight increased government subsidies. The Moderates are opposed to increased unemployment benefit, the Moderates are opposed to increased sickness benefit for the sick and the Moderates are opposed to increased housing allowance for those who need help paying their rent. It is the policy of the Moderates that the state should not pay subsidies. However, in the aviation sector, there seems to be no restrictions. A year ago, the government granted SEK 3.15 billion in grants to Swedavia, which is the company that operates and owns our ten state airports, including Bromma. Therefore, Bromma airport has benefited from this State subsidy. Airports will otherwise be on their own and will finance their activities with fees from airlines. When it is not flown to and from an airport, there is no basis for Swedavia to finance this activity, and therefore Swedavia has appealed to be able to phase out Bromma airport. Swedavia's assessment is that flying to and from Bromma airport will not recover. Therefore, air traffic can be transferred to Arlanda and also partly replaced by trains and digital work. Now the Moderates want us to preserve Bromma at all costs, even if no one will fly from there in the future. I find that a strange attitude. The direct consequence for Sweden's taxpayers will be continued state subsidies to Bromma airport. I would therefore like to ask the Moderates: have you carried out an impact assessment of your proposal for a decision? How much more in the form of government subsidies will the government have to plow down at Bromma airport to preserve it as you wish?
i-6gWANfaBbnBnDBbA8y1a9Y	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! Jens Holm is absolutely right that we believe in privatisation and market solutions. I think infrastructure is something that needs to be costed. It is one of the fundamental foundations of the state for a country to function, especially a country such as Sweden, which has such a large distance. We do not need to set traffic laws against each other, but we can say that aviation is important to Sweden because it is not possible to travel with other transport routes than flights to and from, for example, the capital. Yeah, it'll cost you. It has to cost during a pandemic, and we have shown it time and again in this House when we have added extra money to various sectors that have been in need of help. If you look at the long term, beyond the pandemic, you can see that we in the Transport Committee have received proposals from entrepreneurs who are willing to take over the operation of Bromma airport on market grounds so that Swedavia and the state do not have to pump in money. I would like to address a question back to Jens Holm: How does he feel about private entrepreneurs taking over the operation of Bromma airport so that the state does not have to push out with that money?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-346	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is no because it is completely unrealistic because flying will not recover. This is the assessment that Swedavia makes, and that is the assessment that the Swedish Transport Agency makes. Just look around. The digital work has come to stay. You will not escape in, escape out to Stockholm just for one or two meetings the same day. Just as Åsa Coenraads said in her speech, the vast majority of flights to and from Bromma are domestic flights, which can easily be transferred to Arlanda and replaced by digital work and train travel. I answered Åsa Coenraad's question, Madam President. Unfortunately, Åsa Coenraads did not answer my question, so now I want Åsa Coenraads to have the decency and respect for everyone who listens to this debate to answer this question: How much more in the form of government subsidies do the Moderates estimate that the state will have to plow down into Bromma airport for it to be maintained?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-349	Madam President, I would like I thought I answered Jens Holm's question by saying that the state has to pay what it costs to keep an infrastructure. I think that it is more profitable to keep Bromma airport so that we get a functioning business, not only in the Stockholm region but around Sweden, where we also have business clusters that you easily forget when you are in Stockholm. It will generate more money into the state treasury than is paid out temporarily to keep Bromma airport during a pandemic. We have said in our proposal for an announcement that you first need to investigate the conditions for Arlanda Airport in order to move over the domestic flight before you close Bromma Airport. We are trying to do things in the right order, which the government has not done on this occasion. I think it's very clear that Jens Holm notes that it doesn't matter if you can operate flights on a business basis or if you can move over it somewhere else, because Jens Holm and the Left Party don't want any flying. There they have the same opinion as parts of the government – that aviation as a mode of transport is bad. We don't share that image with Moderates. We think that the flight is important. We want to give aviation a confidence in the future, and we believe in the technological development that can solve tomorrow's climate problems. Bromma can play a major role in the climate component. Later today in this debate, we will certainly hear much more about the great opportunities that exist in terms of alternative aircraft, electric fuel and hydrogen, and the like, which can make short flights much more climate-smart than, for example, the expensive and environmentally poor high-speed trains that they want to build.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-353	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Åsa Coenraads. In his speech, the honourable Member said that it might take ten years before the flight recovers. Perhaps it is primarily national aviation. I said that many companies now choose not to fly but to use digital services. The Moderates believe that flying will come up at the same level quite quickly and that Bromma will play an incredibly important role in national flying. If now all assessors – the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Ericsson, ABB etcetera – together with Swedavia make the assessment that we will probably reduce our flying or travelling by about 50 percent, what is it that says that we will increase our travel just to Bromma and not to Arlanda? My question is: Do the Moderates believe that flying on Bromma will increase after the pandemic? If it takes ten years to recover, we end up at 2032, which gives us only six more years before Bromma is to be wound up. Who will pay for the flying that will not happen on Bromma?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-356	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Denis Begic, for the questions! I thought it was a little tricky and didn't quite understand, so you can correct me if I don't answer the questions. Me and the Moderates don't have the speckle that the government has to judge the future of travel. However, we can look at the forecasts presented by the Chamber of Commerce here in Stockholm, which Swedavia has presented, which WWF has presented and which private entrepreneurs have presented to us in the Transport Committee. It's the same talk that both Denis Begic and I have heard at the same time. It is believed that travel will slowly recover, but what happens later in the future we do not know at all. I think the pandemic has taught us to work more from home and digitally, but I don't think we're going to travel any less. The longer the pandemic goes on, the more eager we are to meet physically. I believe that travelling to Bromma in the long term will be able to increase because you want your companies around Sweden. If we also have private entrepreneurs who are willing to take over and operate Bromma airport, it does not have to cost the state anything, instead Swedavia can spend the money on developing, for example, Arlanda in the long term. It's necessary whether we move the domestic flight from Bromma there or not. My questions back to Denis Begic based on the decision that the government has taken to close Bromma prematurely is: How is the planning going with another runway at Arlanda? What about the procurement of A ‐ Train in order to be able to transfer to and from Stockholm in a fast, efficient and cheap way so that we can maintain a thriving business community around Sweden?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-361	Madam President, I would like As Mr Coenraads said, nobody has a spåkula, but we have to listen to what is said around Sweden and around the world. It's a reduced flight, no matter who you talk to. Business flying in particular, on which Bromma lives today, will be greatly reduced. My concern is that Arlanda will not be able to develop so that it will be the airport in the Nordic countries that is number one and that that airport will be located in another country. I am worried about Swedish business and for the companies that we may lose to another capital in the Nordic countries because we do not have an airport with direct flights to the USA, Asia or the place in the world where they are needed. For me, it is crucial that Arlanda develops. What needs Arlanda has, Swedavia must tell the government and the Riksdag. So far they have said that nothing is needed right now, but they can swallow the whole Bromma right away. I agree with Åsa Coenraads that public transport to Arlanda is under any criticism. The Moderates chose to let Arlanda Express continue as they do, and now we have a location where none of the operators want to go on the Arlanda Express runway because it is far too expensive. Instead, Swedavia is building more and more parking spaces. Therefore, my question is: Do the Moderates also think that Arlanda should be the Nordic Airport's number one airport, or should we have two airports in Stockholm that you can travel between when you are connecting to a flight abroad?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-366	Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe that Arlanda should become the leading airport in the Nordic region. But we also think that Bromma airport should be a city-by-city and efficient airport for domestic aviation in particular. Who's traveling on domestic flights, we're not getting involved. But we can see that it is business aviation that dominates at Bromma airport. I think that the Social Democrats' point of view on the future is a little foggy. There is a problem with the expansion of Arlanda, for which the Social Democrats speak warmly, and that is that the Social Democrats are on their knees on the Green Party. And the Green Party does not want to expand Arlanda Airport because it runs an anti-aircraft policy on the part of the government. This becomes a problem when you choose not to fly from some places to Arlanda today, but to choose other Nordic countries. Sweden has already lost several destinations because airlines and the business community do not dare to trust the government's policy in the future. I find this boring. Sweden deserves something better. Sweden deserves a new government that believes in the future, believes in technology development and believes in aviation as a whole.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-369	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats obviously support all their reservations, but in order to save time at the vote, I only ask for reservation 5. Regarding the government's proposal on environmental management of landing and take-off charges, we from the Swedish Democrats say a clear no to such a proposal. Over the past year, air traffic has been adversely affected by all national and international restrictions. We are happy to see that the flight is able to recover and that it should be a priority. Aviation already has similar regulations at international and EU level and does not need yet another proposal that would make the situation more difficult. This proposal also runs the risk of making it more difficult for small regional operators and also for cargo flights which, unfortunately, are currently dependent on older aircraft types. At the same time, however, this proposal would not take them out of service, but would just fly to other destinations. We think it would be unwise if we were to introduce such a system as the first and only country. We would rather see the corresponding charging system being introduced on a broad front, perhaps within the EU or internationally, so that everyone gets the same game rules. As I said, the result of the bill is that they only operate on other destinations, and that would not affect global emissions. Air travel is facing a major recovery, while at the same time it is facing a change. In almost a few months, the flight lost its customer base. Employees no longer had a job to go to, and the companies stopped having customers. This, of course, hit the airlines hard, but also the jobs around them. It's about ground staff, service, hotels, administration, shops, tourism – yes, the list can be made long. Airports are and remain an important part of Swedish infrastructure. The Swedish democrats defend and want to develop the system of emergency airports that have played a very important role, as we have heard here from the speaker's chair, not least during the pandemic. Today, they are making several important efforts. Ambulance transport, sea rescue, mountain rescue, fire detection are just a few examples. Furthermore, we propose that regional airports, which today enable businesses, public authorities and other services of social importance to operate around our country, be given clearer support. The flight to these destinations also makes it possible to connect the city and the countryside, and we shall all work for and be happy about that. Unfortunately, however, in recent times the state has not taken overall responsibility on this issue and has chosen to divest several airports. At the same time, responsibility has been transferred to several of Sweden's regions and municipalities that go on their knees to keep them going. The Swedish Democrats want to work to ensure that we have a functioning infrastructure throughout the country and therefore recommend that an increased and predictable operating aid be investigated. When the industry has not yet made it out of this crisis, the government announced that Bromma airport will be closed. It is gratifying that we from the committee managed to stop this proposal, or at least to address an announcement to the government. This proposal risks hitting Stockholm hard, but also the rest of the country. The government ignored the fact that just under five years earlier an announcement had been made that Bromma airport would be further developed. Five years is not a very long time when we are talking about infrastructure, and I think we should have listened to what the political opposition said back then. As far as the purpose of this closure is concerned, we have been told that there are, in particular, other airports such as Arlanda which have the capacity to take care of the travel document and that travel has been reduced. As I said, the aircraft is facing a change. But assuming that it will be reduced, we think it is wrong. Before we even think about closing down, we should make sure to expand Arlanda. It should be a priority regardless of the message. Experts state that in the long term Arlanda will also need another roller coaster if we are seriously to promote technology development for aviation and welcome electric flight in real life. Bromma airport with its city-by-town location offers a unique opportunity to tie the rest of the country closer to the capital. In addition, it is an option as an urban hub for the future development of electric flights. Furthermore, it would be a waste if we did not use the airport and its infrastructure until it needs to be renewed. Only then should we consider what options are at hand. A closure is not carried out at a glance, and the land will also need to be cleaned before it can be reused. Finally, we believe that a future investment in electric flights is best done in cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. This is already being done to some extent today, but a common ambition and effort at national level are needed to create an infrastructure that will contribute to the long-term development of electric aircraft. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats will continue to protect aviation, which is and remains an important part of Swedish infrastructure.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-383	Madam President, I would like A functioning transport infrastructure where aviation is a matter of course is important for the whole country. Today we are debating the report on aviation issues. The entrances of the Center Party are as follows: Regional airports are of great importance as nodes for passenger and freight transport, and they link Sweden together for all people who are going to travel. Aviation plays an important role in the transport system and is needed, like roads, railways, shipping and IT. The regional airports are also important for traffic to and from Swedavia airports but also for ensuring sufficient accessibility in those parts of the country that are a bit from the main railway structure and where travel times are otherwise completely unreasonable. We in the Center Party also want to point out that the country's regional airports – there are about thirty – have a major impact on the Swedish tourism industry's ability to grow outside the city cores. These airports are generally owned by the municipalities and regions in which they are located. They have been struggling with economic problems for many years and are therefore at risk of closure. We want the state to go in more with financial guarantees and ensure that the operation works. Like many others, we have seen that this discussion has become even more relevant with the coronapndemin, which hit air traffic hard and reduced the revenues to regional airports. The Center Party would therefore stress the need to ensure regional airports so that they can continue to be nodes in the development of tourism and business throughout the country. We would also like to stress the importance of the state creating long-term sustainable operating conditions for regional non-governmental airports. Sweden's large distance means that we are completely dependent on a working flight and the opportunity for people in business to easily get to and from destinations within the country and further out into the world. Regional airports connect Sweden, create jobs and increase tourism opportunities throughout the country. When the European Commission has previously carried out audits of a number of regional airports receiving state aid, there has been uncertainty about the future of these airports. Against this background, the Center Party considers that Swedavia's profit sharing model should be investigated with a view to strengthening the operational security of regional airports. Madam President, I would like During normal operations, important systems such as air traffic management and safety activities can be financed by the charges levied on passenger and freight traffic via airlines. Unfortunately, we can see that this revenue falls to virtually zero in precisely what we are in now, namely a crisis. Since safety is absolutely essential, aviation will not be able to start up fully unless these systems are funded. The Center Party therefore believes that the State should take greater responsibility to ensure that these systems are maintained and operated even if air traffic is very weak. For the state airports, we believe that Swedavia should be authorised in this respect. Even in the case of the 30 regional airports in the country, the State must be able to enter and ensure, via financial guarantees, that the operation can continue to function. Even during a crisis – and perhaps especially then – the country's fine-meshed airport network must function and be able to operate safely. Precisely how this should be done, the Center Party believes needs to be investigated. Against this background, we believe that the self-financing of air transport charges in times when air traffic is down as a result of regulatory review so that the State takes a greater share of these charges. We would also like to stress the need to ensure the functionality and robustness of regional airports in relation to socially critical functions even when regular air traffic is down in the event of a crisis, as at present. Madam President, I would like Emissions from aviation should and must be reduced, but it is extremely important to emphasise the principle that emissions should be hunted down and not transport. This also applies, of course, to aviation. There is a need for a sustainable change in the aviation sector. In order to increase the pace of change in the aviation industry, the Center Party believes that measures are needed to increase the use of biofuels, and to facilitate this transition, it is necessary for the government to assume its responsibilities and contribute. We therefore want to see more research for a green change in aviation, for example on technical solutions for re-setting and improving the efficiency of the aviation sector. The Center Party also believes that the Nordic region should be the leader in fossil-free aviation. Several of the Nordic countries already have high ambitions for fossil-free travel, which should be exploited and developed with joint efforts. Madam President, I would like Electricity has a lot of bearing on the issue of accessibility throughout the country. With smaller electric aircraft, new routes will emerge that would not have been the case with the traditional aircraft fleet. This provides the conditions for making Sweden more accessible and developing rural areas. Furthermore, the environmental and climate impact of aviation must be reduced in order for us to be able to contribute to Sweden's national climate targets and international commitments without risking the accessibility target. The Center Party therefore wants to facilitate the introduction of electric flights in Sweden. Rapid technological development is currently taking place in aviation, and electric and hybrid flights will be on the market within a few years. However, we believe that greater government commitment is needed to exploit the full potential of electric aviation. The aviation strategy adopted by the Government in 2017 deals with electric flights only in summary terms. Furthermore, Sweden currently lacks a political target for electric flights, which would be desirable in order to accelerate that particular transition. The Center Party believes that all flights from Sweden's airports should be fossil-free by 2040. To this end, it is also important to promote innovation in this area, such as the Elise project, Electric Air Transport in Sweden. In order for Sweden not to lose further land, the government must act now. The Center Party believes that Sweden should introduce a national electric aviation strategy. Madam President, I would like A major issue concerning this report, which has characterised the media recently, is the issue of Bromma airport. A well-functioning flight throughout Sweden requires infrastructure in the form of airports. Bromma airport today plays an important role in keeping domestic aviation together, and before the pandemic Bromma was the hub of the country's domestic flights. The plane has been hit hard by the coronapndemine, and what flying will look like after society is reopened is hard to say. To choose to shut down Bromma right now would be unwise. The way the government presented this on 21 April is also unwise, for although Bromma is no longer to be used for commercial air transport, there are still many activities that are needed at Bromma. Several important questions need to be answered. Does all traffic fit at Arlanda? Does Arlanda need to be expanded? How do we ensure socially important flights? Can Bromma be used as a node for the electric flight? What happens to Arlanda's capacity when aircraft in different speed registers are mixed to a far greater extent than today? As I said, many questions have not been answered. To close an airport, no matter where it is, you don't do it overnight. We are in need of functioning infrastructure throughout the country, and right now Bromma is an important part of the network that exists. If that's the case in ten years, we'll have to wait and see. Decisions should be made in the right order, and many questions still need to be answered. In that situation, to go out and tell Bromma to be shut down now is irresponsible. The Center Party therefore supports the announcement on Bromma proposed in today's report on aviation. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 6.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-400	Madam President, I would like This is one of this year's important infrastructure debates. I dare to say that our committee is one of the most exciting in the Riksdag, because we work with issues that affect the whole kingdom and affect people in everyday life, every day. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the largest countries on the surface of Europe. This makes us dependent on good infrastructure throughout the country, whether it be road, rail, maritime or air. The Christian Democrats believe that we should develop aviation and find common infrastructure solutions where we can combine, for example, air and rail to create fast and good communications. The aircraft performs different functions in different parts of the country. In some locations, flights are a quick way to get to and from Stockholm to attend a business meeting. In other parts of the country, aviation is part of the direct communication of business with other countries' business. The flight also serves as public transport for people who want to fly on to another town or meet family and friends in other parts of the country. Added to this is all the social aviation that serves the community with medical transportation and assistance in fire, police surveillance, coastguards and more. Air travel is an important part of our national infrastructure. Madam President, I would like In order to develop aviation over time, we believe that we should review how we fund the infrastructure that serves our airlines. Today's solution, where municipalities and regions finance the smaller airports while the state via Swedavia handles the larger airports, has created some problems, as it is only the state part that makes money while the municipal and regional airports often go at a loss. We therefore want to look at how to finance future airports. We also want to make it possible for municipalities and regions to procure traffic that they think they need to develop their own business. In addition, we want to review how better take-off and landing charges can be found that take account of future environmental developments. We also believe that taxes and charges should first and foremost be negotiated internationally, as large parts of aviation travel between countries and Swedish aviation must have the same conditions of competition as our neighbouring countries. Furthermore, we believe that work on the Single European Sky should be speeded up. Madam President, I would like KD is behind the Bromma and Arlanda committee initiative. Bromma will remain a modern airport, and the decision on Bromma's future should only be made when the flight has recovered and reliable forecasts can be made for the future development of the aircraft. We also believe that a national plan must be drawn up for Arlanda and that decisions must be made regarding new environmental permits, so that we can ensure sufficient flight capacity in the Stockholm area via Arlanda. The discussion about Bromma and Arlanda is not just about the Stockholm region but about the whole of Sweden having a functioning infrastructure. When Arlanda has the right conditions and has the ability to handle both domestic and international flights, it is possible to discuss Brommas be or not be. But closing Bromma just to satisfy the Green Party is not okay. Madam President, I would like For us, it is obvious that Arlanda will develop into a node for international flights. It is therefore important to invest in Arlanda. But it is not enough for us to invest only in the airport itself. We also need to improve the infrastructure to and from Arlanda. Arlanda is not only important for the Stockholm region. If we develop Arlanda properly, Arlanda will be an important node for the entire Nordic and Baltic region. Madam President, I would like As a West Swedish politician, I am proud that many of our companies are involved in developing the environmentally friendly aviation of the future. Heart Aerospace in Gothenburg is developing an electric flight with 19 seats that will primarily serve future domestic flights. GKN Aerospace in Trollhättan delivers parts to approximately 90 percent of all aircraft engines. Some time ago GKN announced that it is working on developing engine parts that will work in future hydrogen aviation. We also see how several of our fuel producers are developing new renewable aviation fuels. Our assessment is that future aviation will be environmentally friendly – electric aviation will dominate domestic aviation, hydrogen will dominate European domestic aviation and various forms of biofuels will be used for the longer distances. Madam President, I would like This fuel mix will give us all an environmentally friendly flight. For us as Christian Democrats, it is important to affirm technology development and to contribute to the environmental and efficient public transport system of future flights. However, we are very concerned that the Green Party, via the government, is making the positive development that is currently taking place more difficult. Madam President, I would like In addition to technological development, it is important that we work internationally to make aviation more environmentally friendly. In addition to the fact that this international work is right in substance, it will also in the long term benefit our business community and provide jobs in Sweden, as we have several companies that already focus on developing the future's environmentally friendly aviation. Madam President, I would like We know Jens Holm and the Left Party don't like flying. It is therefore not surprising that Jens Holm and the Left Party want to tax off flights. However, we Christian Democrats do not believe in that strategy. We believe in technology development and believe that aviation has an important role in society. Madam President, I would like There has been a debate in this House about when the flight will be back. How long will it take? There are several of us who have listened to various lectures. We have listened to parts of the business community. We've been listening to Swedavia. What has fascinated me when I have sat and listened to these draws is that no one has lifted my eyes higher than Sweden and Europe. What exactly is going on in our world? We are seeing economic development in South America. We are seeing economic development in Africa. We are seeing economic development in Asia. We see an increasing number of people leaving poverty and entering the international middle class. What we know about the international middle class, and as Professor Rosling, now deceased, showed in many of his studies, is that it is moving. If nothing else, we can see this in migration debates. It is easier to move across larger areas. But it is exactly the same truth when we talk about economics and economic development. There will be more people in the international middle class who are moving. You do business. You get married. You meet between generations and nations and meet people from the rest of the world. So there is a change going on, but no one has mentioned it when you have tried to discuss the future of aviation. Madam President, I would like For my part, I believe that aviation will continue to increase in exactly the same way as road, rail and shipping. They'll have a dip. But the international middle class is growing. Trade and travel are also growing as a result. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are in favour of the proposal for an announcement on Bromma and Arlanda. We are also in favour of all our reservations, but for time winning, we are only in favour of KD's and M's joint reservation number 1. Madam President, I would like It's very hot outside, and it's a lovely committee. We Christian Democrats are all offering cake after the debate. You are warmly welcome to have coffee and have a piece of cake with us!
i-f69c2a2c13238947-419	Madam President, I would like I do not think that we as Members of Parliament should attribute different things to each other without having a basis for it. Magnus Jacobsson said me and the Left Party don't like flying. That's not quite true. We don't like aviation emissions. They're the ones that need to be dealt with. It is naive to believe that aviation emissions can only be reduced by electrification and biofuels, which seems to be the Christian Democrats' response to this. Nor is it true that we want to punish flights with taxes. We believe that all modes of transport should bear their own costs and, in particular, their own environmental burden. Air travel is the most subsidised of all modes of transport. There are 8 billion Swedish subsidies each year only for aviation tax exemptions. On top of that, we have VAT exemption and disability for international and domestic flights. Now, during the pandemic, massive aid packages have been created to save aviation. Some may have been justified, others less. In total, SEK 16 billion has been invested, more than seven times as much as the targeted support to the rail sector. Madam President, I would like What I would like to ask Magnus Jacobsson is precisely about subsidies. It is about the Christian Democrats' proposal to preserve Bromma. It should be borne in mind that Bromma will not be able to finance her own activities for the foreseeable future, but will be dependent on government subsidies. How much are the Christian Democrats prepared to contribute to government subsidies to keep Bromma alive? That is exactly what the proposal is about.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-422	Madam President, I would like It is very difficult to assess what costs will be. Mr Holm is absolutely right that right now there are costs for keeping Bromma. That is exactly what I was trying to address at the end of my speech. All future analyses say that it will take different periods of time before the flight is restored. Now I was in this Chamber at the 'Nine eleven', and I was then in charge of the Christian Democrats. You saw the same effect there, which made perfect sense. There was a terrible attack. The international flight went down, but it recovered relatively quickly. What could in theory speak against the fact that it recovers just as quickly this time could be digitalisation. We just don't know how long we as people feel that digitalisation is a good solution. I am among those who believe that man in many ways is a social being. Digital solutions will be used for some quick meetings. But in the long run, we'll probably want to hang out again. The interlocutions that become when you take some coffee at a meeting are just as important in business and the public sector as in private family life. The interhuman will speak in favour of the recovery taking place faster than we think. It is also the case, as I tried to point out at the end of my speech, that we have talked almost only about the domestic Swedish movement and the European movement. But something's going on. There is a change going on internationally. China is today the world's largest economy. Just a few years ago, it was the United States. There's stuff happening outside of our area that's affecting aviation as well. I simply do not share the honourable Member's analysis that there will be such a long risk, but it is difficult to assess how long it is a risk.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-430	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Magnus Jacobsson's look into the world. Of course there's a lot going on. But now we are talking about Bromma Airport, and more than nine out of ten flights flying to and from Bromma fly and land within Sweden. It's an airport for domestic flights. Everyone is probably right to agree that a large part of the journeys made on domestic flights before the pandemic will not be needed afterwards. The flights that will need to be made can be taken care of by Arlanda. It is very clear in the information that Swedavia has shown us. Swedavia owns and operates both Bromma airport and Arlanda Airport. I therefore find it a little strange that Magnus Jacobsson and the Christian Democrats consider themselves to know better than those who actually work with these airports every day. My question to Magnus Jacobsson is: How is it that the Christian Democrats know better than those who work every day with both Bromma airport and Arlanda airport, namely Swedavia, who believes that Bromma airport is not needed?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-434	Madam President, I would like On the rhetorical question, I choose to answer rhetorically that we always know better than V. But we leave it at that. What the others have said, and we have sat at the same meetings, is a time assessment. Some estimate that it will take a very long time. Others estimate that it will take a little shorter time. We have also had a professor with us in the committee who has noted that infrastructure always grows by 11⁄2 – 3% over time. This is linked to the overall growth of the economy. That is precisely my point when I point to the international movement. If the economy grows in the world, it will affect the economy of Europe because we are now interdependent. Sweden is one of the most export-dependent countries in the world. As the economy grows, so does the Swedish economy. It also leads to domestic air movements. I am well aware that Bromma has, above all, domestic flights. Then you have to be aware of one thing. The announcement we make is a clear mark to primarily the Green Party that wants to close Bromma, and then prefer not to develop Arlanda. With the announcement that we are now making, we have signalled that you have to make a decision about Arlanda before entering the Bromma discussion. It puts incredible pressure on the government to do things in the right order. That is, above all, what we Christian Democrats have pointed out. We share the view that has been highlighted by the Social Democrats in the pulpit today. Arlanda must develop. But then you can't start by closing Bromma and then brake Arlanda. That is why we have supported the initiative. It is to send a clear signal that the Swedish Parliament wants a living and well-functioning flight. When we know how the development will be, we may be able to make a future decision about Bromma.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-443	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that I am opposed to ensuring that the Green Party is content. As a social democrat, I think it is incredibly important to listen to what is said at the committee meetings and the meetings where we meet businesses, industry, unions, etc. Swedavia has said that it is now you can close Bromma and move the entire flight to Arlanda and make sure to develop Arlanda further. That is not something I can question on the basis of the discussion that Swedavia has given us even before the pandemic. Before the pandemic, aviation in Sweden developed in the wrong direction, thus negative. It went down. I think the decrease was about 5 percent in 2019. Nothing indicated that it would change. Then we can believe and absolutely hope that the international middle class will increase. It would provide a better standard of living for many people in the world who need it. But here we are discussing Bromma, where 90% of flights go nationally between regional airports. That is why my thinking to Mr Jacobsson is as follows. Swedavia, the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce and some others now say that today we can move the whole of Bromma to Arlanda and develop. All the flights on Bromma could be swallowed there, and you can eventually look at what is happening. Does Mr Jacobsson not think that we as a committee and as Members of Parliament have an obligation to listen to what our authorities say?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-449	Madam President, I would like It is very important that we listen to what different parties say. Swedavia is in this case a party, namely the one who operates these very airports. Then there are other parties, such as those who land at airports. They have found that there are some problems with this. They've even had problems getting castle times when they've tried to get into Arlanda. It is also important that we refer to different organisations fairly equally. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce is clear that Bromma can be closed in the long term. But then there must be investments in Arlanda. That's not what the government said at the press conference they had. So there is a very clear difference in tone here. As far as the announcement we are making today is concerned, the Chamber of Commerce in the committee said quite plainly: it is a good announcement. It wasn't because they might have defended Bromma in the first place. This applies to the part of the announcement where we are incredibly clear about the need to develop Arlanda if you are to cope with both domestic and international capacity. The answer to the question is that we Christian Democrats share the analysis that we are currently in a pandemic situation. We don't know how fast it's recovering. On the domestic market, and by domestic I also mean the European market, we see that recovery is likely to take time. In the somewhat larger market, other things are happening that we have not even received analyses on. The international middle class is actually growing. This is something that is positive when people move from poverty into middle class and from poverty into better welfare. It affects our trading patterns. This is something that is positive for Sweden because we are an export-dependent country that will sell more. But it will also result in more movement. It's very difficult to judge. Our assessment and our response have been that Bromma cannot be closed right now unless you first have a clear strategy with Arlanda, and it is missing from the government.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-457	Madam President, I would like All those who have been in committee and in all the discussions that have taken place both outside this House and in other contexts make the assessment that it will take a long time for aviation to recover. When I talk to entrepreneurs, most people say that they will not use flights to the same extent as before. The technology has moved forward extremely quickly. We can compare with the beginning of the pandemic, when we started using Zoom, and how to use the technology today. For companies that want to be environmentally aware and want to save additional money, this is an important step to be able to do so. It is also important for employees who are sick, no matter where in the world they are. The business traveler on Bromma won't look like it's done. Everyone makes that assessment. Therefore, my concern is that if we keep Bromma and at the same time have Arlanda, we will not be able to develop Arlanda into a hub in the Nordic region. That's what I want to see. I want to see Arlanda as place number one from which you get out into the world. I believe at the moment that the announcement by the right-wing parties will put a stop to this. Swedavia herself has said: We can do this. We do not need to take many steps to swallow the entire domestic flight. I think it's important that we listen to Swedavia and the experts we have.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-462	Madam President, I would like No one questions that the recovery will take time. No one questions the fact that digitalisation is taking place and that more people will use digital technology. But the government was not clear on what they wanted with Arlanda. They had a press conference where they were happy in mind signaling that now we close Bromma. We in this House know, because we have heard the debates before, that there are parties that like to tax flights, even though flights move across national borders and cannot be compared to the domestic structure that moves domestically. When the government does not answer the question about the future investment at Arlanda, you create uncertainty. Madam President, I would like It is very easy for the government to create security in s y Stemet and contribute to Arlanda getting new flights. It is enough to listen to what Parliament is saying today, because there are two sides to that signal. One is: Do not close Bromma until we know what the future looks like! The second is: Come with a clear message about developing Arlanda! If the government could come up with a bill with clear information that Arlanda will become a future node, I am absolutely convinced that more parties would look at it with great interest. But so far we've only been told: Close, close, close! We are a few who say: The flight is important, the flight is needed and the flight will develop.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-467	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating aviation issues and the future of aviation in Sweden. I would like to begin by calling for approval, on the one hand, of our announcement on the future of Bromma and, on the other hand, of the Liberals' reservation No 8 on aid to regional airports. Madam President, I would like For just over a year, we have lived under the pandemic, a pandemic that affects our way of life and to transport us. The aviation industry is hardest hit by all industries, and Liberals have pushed for comprehensive support measures to re-start the industry. It is important that these measures are used, not least the support to the Aviation Administration of 900 million to cover the loss of revenue due to the pandemic. Otherwise, the loss of revenue of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration risks being passed on to air operators and ultimately to air passengers for many years to come in the form of increased air transport charges. This can result in a slower start-up of aviation and a decrease in Sweden's competitiveness. However, we now appear to be approaching the end of the pandemic, mainly because of the vaccination programme. Restrictions are removed, and airlines see increasing flight bookings. Forecasts show how quickly air traffic is expected to recover. However, it is only forecasts. No one has experience of the situation we are in now or knows what future air traffic will look like. To go out in the worst crisis of aviation, as the government has done, saying that it wants to close Bromma airport on account of the current market situation, i.e. how many aircraft take off from Bromma in the middle of a pandemic, is totally unacceptable. In addition, it is in direct conflict with the decision taken by the Riksdag in 2016 that the Government should work towards further development of Bromma airport. The government's answer to this decision is to close Bromma, even though they say in a letter to the Riksdag, as late as 11 March this year, that they will return to the Riksdag with how they intend to develop Bromma. In addition, they decide to close Bromma and then investigate the consequences – completely reverse the usual way of working. Madam President, I would like The reasons for developing Bromma remain, that it is important for the whole country to secure future access to fast and efficient communications to and from Stockholm. Bromma airport, together with Arlanda, plays an important role in the capacity of flights throughout the country, not least as a hub for domestic flights. Liberals believe that changes cannot be decided in the midst of a pandemic. It is extremely difficult to assess the need for airport capacity once aviation recovers. At the same time, the development of electric flights for passenger traffic is moving forward at a rapid pace. This allows regional airports for electric flights in city-by-city locations to become a climate-smart alternative for domestic travel. Bromma can play an important role in the development of electric aviation. The Liberals have gathered support here in the Riksdag for our committee initiative that this is the wrong time to investigate Bromma's future and that the rapid investigation should be interrupted. It risks threatening both the business community and the ability to live and work throughout the country. Instead, we should focus on the re-launch of aviation. Bromma airport is needed to enable the start-up and development of domestic aviation after the pandemic. In addition, the overall development of air traffic to and from Stockholm after the pandemic must be secured, leading to the need to develop a plan for the development and expansion of Arlanda Airport. Only when the flight has reached a normal state of affairs again, and it is therefore possible to make reliable forecasts of air traffic in the future, can we carry out an investigation into Bromma's future development. Bromma airport will remain a modern airport. Madam President, I would like The rapid re-launch of aviation is essential to ensure accessibility and the competitiveness of Swedish companies. Regional airports play a crucial role here. Based on the difficult economic situation of aviation and the strategic importance of regional airports to connect the whole country, the needs of future electric flights and the country's preparedness, the economic situation of regional airports needs to be clarified and a long-term and sustainable strategy developed to ensure the development and survival of regional airports. I call for the government's long-term airport strategy. In the short term, economic recovery is the biggest challenge for the aviation industry. From a longer perspective, it is aviation's impact on the climate that we need to focus on and solve in order to retain the benefits of aviation. For the Liberals, it is not aviation itself that is the problem, but the emissions itself. That is where we need to focus our efforts. We believe that this is an easy decision for air travellers in the choice between paying a few hundred extras for biofuels and not flying at all. We welcome the recently agreed reduction obligation for aviation fuel. We also need to invest in research into other fossil fuels, such as hydrogen. In the long term, the high-height effects of aviation also need to be compensated. We also want to push for an international aviation fuel tax system based on emissions and thus replace today's ticket tax on aviation. We are also in favour of an environment-based take-off and landing fee system. We really want the flight to take its responsibility to change. Madam President, I would like In addition to biofuels, electric aviation is an important opportunity to address the climate impact of aviation, in Sweden and globally. The area also has, based on Sweden's extensive aviation expertise, an opportunity to become a new industrial branch in Sweden. We have, for example, Heart Aerospace and Trollhättan GKN. Heart Aerospace is developing a new electric aircraft that will be able to take 19 passengers. Liberals believe in the potential of technology. Electricity has the potential to revitalise flights directly between regions, pointing to the importance of smaller airports as a complement to the major hubs. Traffic analysis recommends that several instruments be considered for electric aviation and that an instrument package, similar to that in Norway, be developed to speed up the introduction of electric aircraft. The Norwegian programme includes concrete, timed targets combined with measures in three areas: research and innovation, risk relief when introducing the plan into the market and support for operation. Liberals believe that the government should develop cooperation with other Nordic countries so that the regulations are coordinated to create a common Nordic platform for electric flights. A common ambition is needed to create an infrastructure that will contribute to the long-term development of electric aircraft and the creation of a Nordic market with electric flights. Therefore, we believe that a strategy to collaborate on electric flights in the Nordic region needs to be developed. Liberals also believe that Sweden should participate in the grouping that the UK has initiated, which will develop a toolbox for legislative changes to accelerate the decommissioning of fossil fuels. Here, Sweden's experience can make a difference, and here the government needs to take an initiative. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to emphasise once again the importance of the committee's proposal for an announcement that Bromma should continue to be a modern airport. It is important for Sweden's competitiveness and to be able to live and live throughout Sweden.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-486	Madam President, I would like It is always nice to listen to Mr Gellerman. She is a tech optimist and is always, regardless of the type of traffic involved, on her toes to ensure that innovations and technologies come forward in different ways. The honourable Member and I will probably share that enthusiasm about technology and what will happen in the future. One of the things that Mr Gellerman mentions is the development of Bromma airport. She says it would be great to have Bromma airport which, what to say, perhaps a test bed for electric flights. Why is Bromma the one suitable for that? Isn't Landvetter in Gothenburg even more suitable? Heart's there. There are exciting projects going on in Åre and Östersund. There are exciting projects going on in Örebro around autonomous airports. At many different airports in Sweden, these projects are ongoing. What makes Bromma the perfect choice? Because I don't believe it. If I lived near Bromma, I wouldn't want it to be a test bed for different flights. You don't know what could happen. I think these test beds need to be a little out of town before we're 100% safe. That is why my question is: what makes the Liberals think that Bromma is the excellent place to test different types of aircraft? And if you want to develop Bromma Airport, what is it you want to develop it into? Is it supposed to be bigger planes? Should there be more planes? Is it supposed to be other aircraft types? What else do you want to develop on Bromma? We must not forget that there are only a few years left until Bromma is closed anyway.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-490	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Denis Begic. I agree that in the discussions we have had, we are looking very positively at developments in Swedish aviation and that there is a roadmap for achieving fossil-free flights. As far as electric flights are concerned, we must not forget in this context that a test bed for electric flights means that when electric flights start flying at ordinary airports, aircraft will be certified according to exactly the same rules as today's aircraft. Electric aeroplanes that are not certified and approved according to the standard global rules will not be released. When it comes to testing electric flights, Heart Aerospace is located at Säve Airport, an announced airport that does not have commercial traffic. There they will test the planes, but once these come out into commercial traffic there will be certified aircraft. So I'm not worried at all. We do not share that concern. When it comes to using Bromma as a city-by-town airport for electric flights, Bromma is very well suited because the airport is located near Stockholm, and Stockholm is a destination that a lot of people throughout the country want to come to for various reasons, even as a stopover to fly on. Bromma also has a lot of housing around her, with its position as a city-by-city airport. Therefore, it is very positive to use Bromma to look at how noise levels and such things go down with the electric flight.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-495	Madam President, I would like Helena Gellerman says in her speech that we should not stop until we know how the flight recovers. The same applies to electric aircraft: we do not know when the first commercial aircraft will be in place. Heart Aerospace estimates that the 2026 might have an aircraft that can fly. That's four years from now, so it's relatively fast. But the recovery, says some assessors, can take ten years or twelve years. We're starting to end up in 2032; we're starting to end up in 2034. The electric flight may be commercial in 2032 or 2034, and we have only four years left of the lease at Bromma in Stockholm. Then my question is: do the Liberals think it is tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or perhaps 2022 that we will have commercial electric flights from Bromma? If so, why should this flight not also be able to travel from Arlanda? Swedavia and everyone else claim that it is quite possible that the capacity that exists today and has already existed at Bromma could be swallowed by Arlanda. When is normal, do the Liberals believe? Is it 2023, or is it 2033?
i-VP2CFSqKRPTYfQtwUdFJmK	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary question, Mr Denis. I'll start with the question of preserving Bromma. We believe that the flight will come back. When it comes to post-crisis recovery, the pace of recovery has in principle always been underestimated. We believe that aviation will recover at a much faster rate than many of the forecasts say. One of the things we have reacted to very strongly is that Swedavia's report tells us that we can currently shift capacity. It is no wonder that you can currently move the capacity, because right now almost no one is flying from Bromma. Then it is quite easy to transfer that capacity to Arlanda. But before the pandemic it was said that there was no room for that capacity at Arlanda. It was also said that Bromma was a profitable airport. We believe that the flight will return to Bromma and that it will increase rapidly. Therefore, we do not believe that the capacity that will be available within three or four years can be transferred. That is our starting point. We believe that taking the decision to close Bromma will seriously damage airport capacity throughout Sweden. Then you won't be able to fly. If we are going to focus a little on electric flights and Bromma it is so that electric flights will be smaller and need a shorter runway, and therefore Bromma fits very well. The electric aircraft will be smaller, and there will be many more aircraft. This means that the capacity at Arlanda will not be sufficient. We need to preserve Bromma for the future.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-502	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support reservation 3. Let me start by talking about the positive changes that the government is currently working on when it comes to flying. There are a few things I would like to highlight in particular. Aviation tax is an important tax that helps to dampen the demand for flying, which is very climate-damaging. One thing that we are working on right now and that is to be developed as soon as possible is environmental landing fees, which are also dealt with in this report. It is also an important measure to put pressure on a rather slow industry in terms of technology development. The third thing I would like to highlight is climate declarations, which means that airlines should have to account for how climate-damaging their travel is. It is not least important from a consumer perspective – you should have the right to know how much you hurt the climate by buying a trip. The last thing I want to mention is that we are currently working on behalf of the government to look at emissions from consumption and a specific interim target for reducing emissions from aviation. I follow that work closely, and I look forward to the result. More is needed, of course, but this lays a pretty good foundation that you can then work on to turn up the tempo and the level of ambition. Then let me come to what is perhaps today's major: Bromma airport. To be honest, Madam President, I hardly know where to begin. I have almost begun to give up the idea of arguing logically and rationally on this issue, because it does not seem to have any effect. We can start with the trend around flying. The trend is that we fly less, and it is very clear. This was a clear trend even before the pandemic. It's important to remember that. It started in connection with the government's introduction of the airline tax and the debate that then arose in society about air cams and the like and about how quickly the planet risks being fried if we fly more. Now, of course, it is also the result of the coronapndemine. No serious assessor believes that aviation will return to previous levels in the near future. Above all, it is business aviation that has been affected and will not return to the same level as before. We will probably see a permanent decline in business aviation – most assessors agree. This is due to new ways of organising their work in the form of digital meetings and the like. Then maybe you don't want to waste a lot of time flying. That's just what it looks like. The Swedish Transport Agency's forecasts say that only forward in 2027 will the level be a little higher than now but not even near where it was in 2019. And then, as I said, the trend was already going down. So that's how it is. This means that Swedish airports have too large a suit. And too big a suit and the financial damage it causes to airports can be addressed in two ways. If you're set that way, you can pump in government funds. Then we're talking about billions of dollars that have to go in to handle it too big a suit. The second way is to have a market approach and allow airports to deal with the situation themselves, and there will be a consequence of the closure of routes. That is the direct consequence of dealing with it that way. When it comes to the issue of Bromma and Arlanda, the smartest way to deal with this, given that those who operate the airports go back so incredibly much, to close down Bromma airport. If you think logically and rationally, that's what you land in. But then the question is: Can we move the capacity to Arlanda? The short and quite obvious answer is yes, and they apply both during the pandemic and before the pandemic. This is what the Members who sit in this Chamber know, but since it does not seem to have been effective, I will take it again and do it very pedagogically. Arlanda has an environmental permit of 350 000 movements per year. In 2019, before the pandemic, there were 233 000 movements. Environmental permits thus allow 350 000 and in 2019 they were 233,000. That's what it looks like. There is therefore already a large overcapacity at Arlanda. Then someone comes and says, "What about during the peak hour?" When there is maximum pressure on the runways, we may not be able to make it. First of all, that reasoning is fundamentally strange. Why should an airport be dimensioned after just an hour? It will be a huge overcapacity and on the whole very costly for the public. And even if you look at the peak hour, the level is far from the capacity ceiling. At most, Arlanda runways can handle 90 movements per hour. Never between 2016 and 2019 did we get over 73. The hour when we had the greatest pressure of all hours during these years, we did not get over 73. The mathematics is very clear. If the ambition is to move all the capacity, it can be done. Madam President, I would like What is happening now is that the right wing on a very shaky basis and with the availability and taxpayers' money that effort obstinates the closure of Bromma airport with L, KD and M at its head. And then I haven't even gotten into the climate aspect. There's really no problem here. As I have said before, there was an Instagram account called Atingslösa influencers; we have to start talking about mindless politicians. This is because, once again, it is about taxpayers, and it is about how irrationally one chooses to formulate one's policy for the airports we have. But, as I said, it is also about the climate issue. Let me round it off and say things that I have said many times in this speaker's chair. I shall therefore keep it rather brief. One is that it is in that way that Swedes fly five times more than the global average. It is not sustainable, in no way. The second is that today there is no technology that can radically reduce emissions from aviation in the short term. These two truths lead us to the conclusion that you either choose to have a completely watered down and bad aviation policy – but then you have to say goodbye to the Paris Agreement – or you choose to act and push for policies that change the fleet and the aviation industry but also reduce flying.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-524	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Lorentz for his speech. I agree with almost everything. I would now like to ask Mr Lorentz about the special opinion that the Green Party has written with the Social Democrats. On page 105, the text on the conditions for the closure of Bromma airport is published. It is said that a basic prerequisite is that Stockholm Arlanda Airport will have long-term prospects to develop in line with market developments. In another place it says something similar, that it is a basic prerequisite that Arlanda will be developed in line with the needs of the market and society. The special opinion thus states that Arlanda Airport will develop and that it will evolve in line with both the market and society. My questions to Lorentz Tovatt are simply: Should Arlanda Airport be allowed to expand, and if so, in what way? What does the wording mean about Arlanda developing in line with the market?
i-JVUZfbXU9v6XcnEHpPQS8c	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! Those wordings can be interpreted in a slightly different way. I can only take my interpretation. When you say that an airport is going to develop, I see in front of me that it should have more biofuels, that there should be the possibility for electric aircraft to charge and so on. Even if you are looking at an expansion with regard to capacity – I was going to say it in my speech but did not quite get there – if you look at the forecasts ahead, you can see that Arlanda, even if Bromma is shut down, is not close to hitting the ceiling until somewhere 2050 – 2060. Therefore, I come to the obvious conclusion that it is completely pointless to expand Arlanda with new roller tracks. I think it's stupid financially, but above all climate. For me, development is precisely conversion, electrification, sustainable biofuels and so on. That's the kind of expansion I see in front of me, not the new roller coaster.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-530	Madam President, I would like It is a little symptomatic that Lorentz Tovatt says in his reply that it can be interpreted in many different ways. It is Lorentz Tovatts and the Green Party's own text. It is true that they have written it together with another party, the Social Democrats, but one should still be able to demand an answer to what they have written. Now I choose to interpret Lorentz Tovatt benevolently, as that the Environmental Party and the Government will not push for Arlanda's expansion in the sense that Arlanda will expand with more air movements and ultimately with a new roller coaster. When I read the text, a lot of questions were raised. But if development means electrification and modernisation in general, we in the Left Party have nothing against it. However, I wonder whether the Social Democrats are of the same opinion as the Green Party. What does Lorentz Tovatt think?
i-D8d7CCmBAf54V4qoKCocFV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the line shift! I'm not going to review other parties. However, I can try to give a picture of what the government has communicated. What you say is that you now see good conditions for closing Bromma down. It has also been said that you do not see a need for new runway capacity at Arlanda in the near future. That's what you've been communicating. They also chose not to present the Flight Plan Arlanda in the condition it was. We will see if such a plan will be presented. But it was not presented in that condition. I'm sure you can interpret things into it. I think I share the government's assessment in this respect; we simply do not need more runway capacity at Arlanda in the near future. If you ask me and my party, I think the straight answer is that we will never need more runway capacity at Arlanda, especially in view of the climate and that we cannot miss the Paris Agreement. We will do so if other parties in this House are allowed to decide.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-536	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Lorentz for his speech. There are a few things I would like the honourable Member to clarify. We're in a pandemic. Fewer people travel by plane. But we also see this with regard to other means of transport. Maybe less people choose to travel by bus. The number of people who choose to ride the subway decreases. Fewer people travel by public transport and by rail. They say we might have too big a suit when it comes to flying. Then we could draw it so far as to say that we also have too much rail and road and that we should not invest in any form of infrastructure at all, just because we are currently in a pandemic. I believe that aviation will continue to be important in the future, as well as that it is important that we develop new main routes to link the country together and that we invest in the fine road network in the countryside. We need to see the infrastructure and all five modes of transport – I also count on IT – as a whole. When the honourable Member said that we have too large a suit, I began to think of regional airports as an important part of connecting Sweden, to connect the tourism industry, business and everything. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member a little about MP's view of regional airports. Do you think they are important to connect the whole of Sweden?
i-BJqX9Nb9w91juBsewBuHWF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Larsson, for the questions! If we start with regional airports, some of them have an obvious social value. They contribute to accessibility but not least preparedness. Then there are regional airports that do not have a social value. They are the ones that are very close to other airports and where there are very good rail connections. I think they're on their own. Västerås Airport, to name just one, is clearly not needed from a societal perspective. Perhaps the state should streamline its responsibilities and look at which airports we really need and ensure that they do well, while others have to do their own thing. Then I just want to point out a difference between me and Mikael Larsson. I think it's even ideological. Too big a suit was spoken of. The question is what you want to do in the future. For us environmentalists, the climate issue is very important. Mikael Larsson mentioned in his main speech that you should not set traffic laws against each other and that you should chase the emissions and not the vehicles. In my world, we have to set traffic laws against each other because some types of traffic are better than others. It is quite clear that rail will always be a more sustainable alternative than air transport, and for purely physical reasons. The laws of physics say that it will be more sustainable to transport on the ground and by rail. There's gonna be a difference when I say we're supposed to set traffic laws against each other. We will choose the type of traffic that is best for the climate, capacity and so on. I think we are landing there in some different conclusions.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-545	Madam President, I would like I believe that all modes of transport will be needed in the future. It is simply a matter of looking at what several Members have previously discussed, namely that what drives progress is innovation, technological development and technological solutions. Just walk 150 years back in time and see what fuel the trains went on then, and then compare with how the development has happened there. The same applies to the fleet of vehicles with cars, lorries and buses. Innovation and technological development take place there in such a way as to move forward in a more environmentally friendly way. We see and want to carry out similar developments for aviation. I want to tap something else that was said. It is important to see the infrastructure as a whole and have a door-to-door thinking. When you leave home you may start on a bicycle to get to a larger railway station, or you start at home with the car and get to an airport and then go somewhere in Sweden and then continue by bus. One must see the whole picture and see that all our modes of transport are interrelated. When Mrs Lorentz Tovatt of the Green Party mentions that some airports can be seen as socially important, I would like clarification. What is meant by social importance? I see that many of the regional airports, but also the state-owned ones in Swedavia, play an important role for both the business community and the tourism industry. They are an important part of any journey. I would therefore like a little clarification from the honourable Member. What does he think and what does he say to many of those who really have to use the flight daily to get to various meetings?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-548	Madam President, I would like Let us take Västerås as an example. There, the Center Party was unfortunately involved in pushing for a referendum and stood on the side that wanted to preserve Västerås Airport. This airport has almost no routes. They have a line to the Spanish solar coast, and it is subsidised in principle by hundreds of millions a year. There, taxpayers can go in with money so that Stockholmers can take the train to Västerås and use Västerås Airport, which is paid by the municipality residents of Västerås, to go to the Spanish solar coast. This is, of course, a very remarkable order, not least because Västerås has both railway connections and is close to other major airports. These are the airports that we cannot continue to support. They must, of course, try to stand on their own feet, but we cannot pump money into the pockets of those who go to the Spanish solar coast with public money, taxpayers' money. It's a very strange arrangement. I would also like to comment on what drives development and innovation. I do not share Mikael Larsson's view of it. What drives innovation is often political decisions or regulations that force industries to move forward. It's a hell of a talk about electric flights and biofuels for aviation right now. This talk started when the Green Party pushed the airline tax through. The electrification of road transport started when the Green Party pushed for bonuses – malus, which forced industries to change. I therefore do not share Mikael Larsson's picture, and that is why I say that politics must be in place to put frameworks and pressure on industries ahead of it. Once again, technological developments in aviation are far from sustainable. We have come a very small piece, and we have the big one ahead of us. It will take many decades. Therefore, we can think not only of technology but also of behaviour.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-552	Madam President, I would like I have listened with interest to the debate, which has primarily been on aviation issues, but I intend to dwell on what I have considered, namely the discussion on Bromma airport. It has been about Bromma's being or not being. For me as a social democrat, it is not about this, it is about how we can strengthen Arlanda in the future and the capacity needs we see there in the future. I do not know if the Members and parties of Parliament have missed the fact that it is going on – and has been going on for a long time – a fairly important economic match about where the economic centre of northern Europe should be. Lots of factors play a role in the location of this Economic Centre. One of these is access to good transport modes, including aviation. I am also thinking about how to look at these issues. In Sweden we have a strong need for an airport that can compete on the international market and with other Scandinavian airports. We're not doing that today. We're behind. We have fewer travelers than both Gardermoen and Kastrup. We also have an airport across the Baltic Sea that is, for example, a leader in Asian aviation. Let us say that we are losing the game of northern Europe's economic centre to Denmark or Germany and Hamburg. The economic consequences for our country would be devastating. That is why the question arises. The pandemic has of course affected both our country and all other countries in the world, but it also gives us a unique opportunity to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and growth. It can give us the opportunity to create capacity needs and fill it at Arlanda airport, both in terms of future flights – we do not know what it will look like today – and how we can strengthen the capacity for travel to and from the airport. This is where we have a window, not since. It is now that the chateaux are not filled. This is where there's space. Waiting for decisions like this would be like shooting yourself in the foot. In this way, we would destroy and reduce the opportunity we have to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. I cannot help but draw a parallel to another important game, or a championship, which was held just recently. Sweden went in and made a really bad entrance with loss towards Denmark. For the first time in modern history, we missed the playoffs. Let us not make this mistake with regard to the economic centre of northern Europe. Let's make sure that Sweden takes the game about where it should be. Let us take the opportunity to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and growth.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-558	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lindberg. I'll be happy listening to you. I think it is positive. Let me take a few simple examples. I live in Uddevalla – it's not in this part of Sweden. My wife comes from Estonia. We're actually flying a lot. We fly to the family but have also chosen to fly for other reasons. It could be business trips or vacations. We have basically never looked at Arlanda. Teres Lindberg is absolutely right, Madam President. For many of us in Sweden, Arlanda is not an option. We looked at Landvetter — Frankfurt as we went to visit some friends in Brazil. When we went to Israel we looked at Copenhagen – Frankfurt, all the time with feeder traffic from Landvetter. We were with the family in Thailand on one occasion; then it was Helsinki. It is, in my opinion, a perfectly correct analysis that if Arlanda is to have a chance in the long term, one must have a flight strategy that is not only about Stockholm city and the Stockholm region but is about Sweden. I am the first to admit this. There's only one small problem. A few minutes ago, part of the government base stood and declared that it did not support that policy. This is also one of the reasons why we have been able to gather five parties around a mark that we must be able to deal with the whole country. Although we have a slightly different tone when it comes to the question of Bromma, we have still been able to get together and say: Preserve and develop Arlanda. But the government has to do it!
i-f69c2a2c13238947-563	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Jacobsson, for the questions. I don't really know where to start, but it's good that we still have some kind of common vision. Then it is sad that the majority of Parliament lands in the fact that Bromma's conservation is primarily important and not to secure the capacity at Arlanda. That's where the discussion lies. The debate today has also mentioned the possible need for another runway and so on. In committee, Swedavia not only once but twice reported on its calculations and analyses. They themselves say, "Poner that the flight will be restored in x years." But by 2030 at the very earliest, we need to have a decision on a possible additional runway, if the flight continues upwards. We don't know this today. We can stand here and speak, but what we know is that there are going to be major changes in what the travel documentation looks like. From this point of view, Bromma would be locked down, which requires enormous resources and has an agreement that expires in 2038. No one in the City of Stockholm, regardless of its political colour, announces a desire to extend this agreement after 2038. There is a best-case date here, and to say at that stage that we should preserve Bromma at any price, even though we know that the airport will go at a loss for a great deal of time to come, probably until 2038, I think is irresponsible. I have to admit that.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-568	Madam President, I would like I may think that Mr Lindberg may read only one side of the announcement. It has two legs. It has a preservation bone – no talk about it. But it also has a forward-looking leg, which points to the importance of taking action at Arlanda so that Arlanda can manage both domestic and international flights in the future. What is so exciting is that we in this House have received a very clear message – the same clear message that was given at the government press conference: with the current government nothing will happen at Arlanda. It is the concern that is one of the reasons why we have this political situation today, with five parties who, despite some disagreement among themselves, have been able to agree that it is too early to take a decision on Bromma because we do not know what the future looks like and that it is absolutely impossible to make decisions about developing Arlanda. There is much reference to Swedavia, and I have great respect for it. However, we are a few who are somewhat frustrated by the fact that we are referring to a report which is classified and which we could not even hear on any of the two occasions in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I asked an explicit question in the Transport Committee about the Swedavia report and was told clearly that they regard it as a business secret. So we have not fully obtained the basis we have asked for. I think that is rude, Madam President, and now I have said this in this House. It would be nice to have at least a chance for politics to have the same and equivalent basis when we are debating an issue. Ultimately, this debate is not just about Bromma. It is about Sweden and Sweden's ability to win the battle highlighted by Mr Teres Lindberg. I am pleased with Teres Lindberg's commitment to this issue, and I would be even happier if the government had the same commitment.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-574	Madam President, I would like I would like to stress to Mr Jacobsson that I do not believe that any Member of Parliament has seen this report in its entirety. It is a matter of business secrets, and I do not think we should approach them lightly in this way. We have, however, been given access to the summaries relating to Swedavia's assessments of future aviation, and I am incredibly grateful for that. Obviously, I do a different interpretation of Swedavia's analyses than does Mr Jacobsson. I see the unique opportunity to take the step right now and strengthen Swedish competitiveness and the Swedish Economic Centre but also put Sweden on an important part of Europe's economic map. It's important. It would be devastating for Sweden if the economic centre moved further south. We need to keep it in the north, because we are, whether we like it or not, a rather peripheral country. The Stockholm region, with Arlanda and Bromma, is disadvantaged by having two airports. This means that Sweden is also at a disadvantage. Whatever we think of the Stockholm region and Stockholm is the capital of Sweden. It is the Swedish Economic Centre, and we need to strengthen it – for future jobs and for people living both in this region and in the rest of the country. We need to strengthen it not least for the northern part of Sweden, where Arlanda is an incredibly important hub for the opportunity to travel and move. I am sincerely sorry that we are getting different in this debate. I wish that more of Parliament's parties could also see the opportunity we have right now.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-578	Madam President, I would like Swedish companies operate in a world that is becoming increasingly smaller or, if you like, that becomes global, and the knowledge-based assets, i.e. intellectual property, become an increasingly important part of the company's value. These assets are thus also an attractive exchange for those engaged in illegal competition by different means of acquiring market shares for entrepreneurs and companies' products, such as brand clothing, medicines or medicines, mobile phones and other electronic goods, make-up and toys. The attractiveness of the products makes them vulnerable to crime. As stated in the committee's position on this matter, developments have taken place rapidly over the last ten years. This type of crime has also been shown to increase throughout the 21st century. The development has gone hand in hand with us becoming increasingly digital and shopping online and making more orders there. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are in favour of the Government's proposal for new rules on geographical indications, trademarks and company names. It is important to be able to protect businesses and entrepreneurs with adequate means. However, we would also like to combine this answer with a clearer illustration of how companies can be provided with information on the names protected by the Geneva Act on international registers of designations of origin, because it is important that companies can do the right thing in free trade agreements. We mention that the government should be given the task of returning with proposals to ensure that the system is easy to use for Sweden's entrepreneurs. When protecting against illegal competition, it is important that serious and hard-working entrepreneurs and their businesses are not caught in the networks because the systems are not clear. They must have the knowledge they need when it comes to registers and how to search in search engines, which are located internationally within the EU. Let me take an example. The drink champagne is a protected geographical indication. It shall be produced in and from the French area. A known drink like this is easy to understand, but finding other products around the world that you have not heard of or come into contact with is more tricky. Then it's harder to do the right thing. That is why we have looked at the opinion from the business community that this is a problem. In particular, this concerns smaller companies which have less organisational capacity for the purpose. Industry highlights this issue. It is important that systems are easy to search and that protected names are easily known. It will therefore also be important to link the introduction of sanctions with good practice. With regard to the proposed provisions on barriers to registration of trade marks and company names where applicants are in bad faith, the Government has chosen to remove the provision on relative barriers. The Swedish Patent and Registration Office (PRV) has raised concerns about this in its opinion. The PRV points out that, in their view, it is not possible to place evil faith among the relative or absolute obstacles, but it may end up in a situation where both are relevant. The agency also writes that this with evil faith is often seen in relation to other rights. That is why we say that it is important for the government to follow this issue when the legislation is to be applied in everyday life. The government has chosen not to include this aspect. Strengthening the conditions for protecting intellectual property rights is a priority for us moderates in the entrepreneurship and innovation policy that we are pursuing. Strong protection of intellectual property rights is crucial for Sweden's growing and welfare-creating companies. We see the urgency of establishing a national strategy on intellectual property issues. The area of intellectual property, which has a largely legal focus, must become an integral part of industrial policy much more clearly. We believe that the government should have done more. We want to see a survey of the intellectual property aspects in the Swedish business community. It is of great importance that we get Swedish companies to understand how to protect their intangible assets and to increase the proportion that actually does. It requires entrepreneurs and companies to be able to get answers from people who know intellectual property rights. It is important that they can get the right knowledge to do the right things. In addition, information and training activities on intellectual property rights should be strengthened. The Swedish Patent and Registration Office has a clear role to actively inform Swedish companies about the possibilities of intellectual property rights. Other authorities, such as Vinnova and the Swedish Agency for Growth, should also be given clear mandates to disseminate knowledge and information about intellectual property rights. Increased exchange of knowledge between authorities would also be a step in the right direction. An IPR strategy should also include a plan for how the legislator should continuously work towards adapting legislation in relation to current technological developments in society. In digitalization and artificial intelligence, for example, progress is fast, and Sweden must not lag behind and risk losing growing companies due to shortcomings in intellectual property protection. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 1 on this matter.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-593	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 23, which, in addition to a government proposal on the protection of geographical indications, deals with a series of motions from the general period of exercise. That is where I intend to focus for the day, and more specifically on a reservation from the Swedish Democrats where we want to strengthen the protection of patents and for all of Sweden's fantastic inventors. I would now like to endorse Amendment No 10, and for the benefit of time I am content with that, although we naturally support all our reservations. Madam President, I would like There are a number of important components when it comes to how Sweden could develop from a poor peasant society to a rich and prosperous industrial nation in just a few decades during the 20th century. Of course, an international industrialisation process was fundamental, but the fact that we succeeded so well here in Sweden is, I think, very much because we Swedes have had to fight in our tough, barren climate and because of the need to work both hard and smart. I don't have to go any further than my grandfather's to bring this very thing to life. Despite simple living conditions, he came to be a multi-contractor and a survival artist of rank who, in addition to providing support to his employees, gave various goods and services to the locals. One of his activities was to saw out blocks of ice in the winter and bury them in the soil, wrapped in sawdust, and then sell ice in the summer so that people could cool down food. As you can see, this was before two other Swedes, Baltzar von Platen and Carl Munters, developed a refrigerator for home use that has since revolutionized the world for the better. There and then a Swedish company, Electrolux, was ready to take on the fantastic invention. This in turn generated a lot of jobs around Sweden. This example is just one of a long series of fantastic inventions that originate in Sweden and have since given fantastic industrial successes for the benefit of Sweden and the Swedish people. SKF, with the Swedish ball bearing, and Tetra Pak are two other brilliant examples. Then a lot has happened in this world, and today it is harder to connect specific products to individual inventors, as the complexity is so infinitely greater. Today, a single consumer product can contain components with hundreds of individual patents while, in principle, every major industrial company spends considerable resources on its own product development. With today's global trade and actors in other parts of the world who shamelessly steal and use patents without doing the right thing, however, it is of great importance that we do what we can to protect Swedish inventions and patents. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have presented a motion that we call Inventory Sweden, and it in turn contains a number of proposals for measures to strengthen protection against intellectual property infringements for the benefit of Swedish inventors and Swedish companies. One of Sweden's publishers is that we should initiate a knowledge centre that gathers and connects expertise in patent and intellectual property issues. It should work with outreach in areas such as education and such, but it should also be available as support for Swedish companies that are seeking knowledge or have ended up in distress. We believe that such a centre of knowledge works best if it has representatives from authorities, academia and industry. We also believe that the Swedish state can and should be much more helpful in protecting Swedish patents and helping in patent litigation. An authority should be given a clear mandate to assist Swedish companies and inventors who are in breach of their patents. We have seen clear examples of such things in the United States, China and Japan over the years. In order to increase the opportunities and willingness to pursue the commercialisation of inventions and innovations, an insurance solution with a state guarantee should be offered. Madam President, I would like In an international comparison, Sweden has proved to have relatively few patent disputes that are settled in court. I don't think it's primarily because there's a low number of trespasses. It can be assumed that this may be due to the fact that the weaker party takes a very high risk by potentially having to pay large legal costs if it loses the case. That is why we believe that the government should examine the possibility of establishing a ceiling on how much a party to a litigation may be liable for the opposing party's representation. In this way, the playing field is smoothed out for the parties. And we believe that more patent holders will then dare to fight for their rights. This is precisely what has proved successful in Germany and the United Kingdom, among others. We therefore believe that this is something we should also try here in Sweden.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-605	Madam President, I would like I agree with all our reservations, but for the sake of time, I only call for reservation 4 in the report. The protection of intellectual property is for the Center Party a matter of course and an extension of ownership. It is something that is the cornerstone of many companies. In a country such as Sweden, the protection of intangible assets is perhaps particularly central because a large part of our prosperity is based on the successful innovators, private individuals and companies that have managed to create international success products: the dynamite, the respirator and the pacemaker. There are some products, but many more can be mentioned. In today's digital economy, everything from the music created by Veronica Maggio to the design of a chair from Svenskt Tenn or the source code of ABB's robots may be important to secure and interesting for many to copy. Technological development is fast, and we are living in an increasingly digitised society. It is therefore important that laws and rules are adapted to today's reality. Copyright law is out of date in many respects, and it regulates many conditions that existed decades ago. A clear example of this is the doubts as to whether you can share images of public art digitally without paying compensation to the artist while it is permitted to share these images analogly. But this is not the only example of copyright not being adapted to the digital reality. Copyright issue number one in recent years has been the implementation of the EU copyright directive. The main line of the Center Party has been that freedom of expression needs to be defended and strengthened, and that the fundamental responsibility and duty of intermediaries to convey information undistorted and that it must not be blocked must be made clear. At the same time, systematic and large-scale copyright infringements need to be curbed to a greater extent than is currently the case. Madam President, I would like Copyright is a building block in what we generally call intellectual property protection. It is a building block that is crucial not only to encourage but also to stimulate creative creation. We would therefore like to emphasise that copyright must be protected and respected on the Internet as well. It is therefore important that modern legislation is in place that can effectively address copyright issues in the digital market. To achieve this is not an easy process. In particular, Parliament's announcement related to the EU Copyright Directive testifies to this. For the Center Party, it has been central that the implementation work takes as its starting point the preservation of freedom of expression on the Internet and that this then also has an impact on the legislation. Madam President, I would like The system of intellectual property rights, from patents to copyright and trademark protection, must be seen as a whole and act as a whole. Two key processes currently in this area are the Digital Markets Act and the Digital Services Act. Depending on the crystallisation of these proposals, questions can not only be raised about intellectual property rights in general. It is also about freedom of expression. With regard to the Digital Services Act, we in the Center Party want to see, among other things, a clearer position in favour of freedom of expression in these balances. The principle must be that users are completely free to communicate any information and that a host service commits a crime if it prevents communication between users if this information is not clearly defined as an exception to this principle by law or terms of use. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party supports the position of the majority of the committee when it comes to increased information directed at companies on different types of protected designations. It is an issue that needs to be dealt with separately from the current report. But for the Center Party, it goes without saying that the government must ensure that it is easy to do the right thing for companies.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-614	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in this report. The Christian Democrats essentially agree with the content of the bill. The key message is to strengthen the protection of geographical indications and company names by introducing changes in legislation. This is good for legal certainty. But we would like to sharpen some parts of the government bill. It is about our basic position that it should be easy to do the right thing. Indeed, we politicians should listen to what the business community says and do what we can to plan out as many thresholds as possible. We can take note of the answers that have been given during the consultation round in particular. There has been a call for better opportunities for individual companies to inform themselves about the current regulatory framework in order to minimise the risk of errors. We Christian Democrats think this is a very good request, and that is why we want to clarify how an individual company can inform itself quickly and effectively about what names it is that should be protected. No one should have to make mistakes because, despite good intentions, it has not been possible to assimilate the necessary information. In other words, it is not enough that the regulatory framework itself is clear and easy to understand. The application must be equally easy. Just referring to the fact that it is the individual's duty to know what applies is not business friendly. It also runs counter to what we think should be done when we talk about regulatory simplification. Therefore, the legislator should facilitate compliance at all stages. It should therefore be charged to the government to work for a practical solution for how companies can assimilate the necessary data through, for example, some form of common database. Madam President, I would like This report also contains issues relating to patents, and work is under way on the strategic management of intangible assets. The committee's position reminds us of the judicial reform, which took place a few years ago. And there are indications that court proceedings are in the process of being shortened. It is a development that I and my party are positive about. However, I would like to point out that Sweden needs more people and companies who see the value of daring to try to transform an idea into an innovation. Today's conditions in terms of intangible value creation disadvantage smaller players, such as start-ups, university researchers and individual inventors. Sweden differs from many other EU countries in a negative way. When it comes to disputes concerning patents, there is a low proportion going to trial or arbitration in Sweden. Today's system allows it to be very costly to run a process. The cost has no idea in advance, and there are, unfortunately, reasons to believe that many smaller operators have refrained from asserting their rights because of that particular uncertainty. I recommended earlier this spring, when the research bill was being discussed, that the rich day should call on the government to investigate how the imbalance between the parties in court can be minimised. A starting point for such a review would be to examine how the imbalance affects the utilisation of research and the willingness to innovate. However, I do not see such an explicit approach in the proposals made in the context of this dossier. To emphasise this, I therefore have a specific opinion on this particular issue.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-624	Madam President, I would like What we are debating here today is an extremely important foundation for the whole free economy and our entire prosperity. This particular report has a heading which may not quite capture the full range of patents and intellectual property rights. It concerns more questions than you can imagine from the headline. Madam President, I would like On the Liberal side, we support much of what has come out of the government's bill. We basically think that is a good thing. We need clear, strong rules that both protect the people who are innovators, who have new ideas, and ensure that our intellectual property rights are protected. Only when people actually have their rights protected can we see increased prosperity tomorrow too. Madam President, I would like It is not enough, however, to have legislation that is drafted in a good and clear way. It is also necessary that those who are victims of various forms of crime and end up in distress because someone else has stepped above the limit of intellectual property rights have the opportunity to defend themselves against this, have the opportunity to use the law and have the opportunity to get right not only in the sense of the legal text but also in the sense of the law. For this reason, we have two reservations. We are, of course, in favour of both, but I would like to save time at the time of the vote in favour of reservation 6 only on costs in patent cases. It is precisely about this: although the law is formulated in a strong and clear way and even if you get information about your rights, which of course is also very important, it is today that the costs of going into a case where you defend your rights are often very high. These are both long-term proceedings, which involve considerable costs, especially in this type of case, and costs linked to a possible trial. Madam President, I would like If we want people to continue to dare to be innovative and continue to drive the economy, Sweden and the world ahead of us, we need to work to bring down those costs and cut down the thresholds so that someone who has been exposed to some form of intrusion can simply defend themselves against it with the help of the law. The law does not just need to be sharp in its wording; its application must also be more accessible to more people. That is why, together with the Moderates, we have this reservation, which is about reviewing and making sure that the costs and thus the thresholds are lower in order to actually apply this, which we are now taking a stand for, in a proper way. Madam President, I would like With this, I therefore call for reservation 6.
i-MivD9Q7dzvPh2ZVb8CMySb	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject any motion on the important intellectual property rights. Last year Sweden was ranked again as the second most innovative country in the world after Switzerland. I'm incredibly proud of that. But we have more to do with, for example, payment when using digital material, we have more to do with copyright and patent opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we have more to do with the gender aspect – more on the latter. The fact that we are now changing some rules on geographical indications and the registration of trademarks in bad faith is part of constantly updating, modernising and screwing up the regulatory framework in order to make it easier and more efficient for businesses. To those parties who have raised the issue of information on what applies in their speeches, I just want to say that there is absolutely excellent information at the Food Authority and also in a database for which the European Commission is responsible. So there is a lot of information. On the other hand, I agree that, in general, we need to help more companies of all sizes and in all kinds of industries to become better at protecting their intangible assets and to have a plan ourselves for protecting, for protecting, for protecting, for protecting and for making available. I agree, and we're working on it. The aim of the Social Democrats is that Sweden should continue to be ranked as one of the most innovative and creative countries in the world and that we should make the most of the technological revolution that we are in the midst of. My vision for intellectual property policy is that all authors and innovators, regardless of size and gender, should have sufficient knowledge to determine whether, when and how an innovation or a work should be protected and knowledge enough to manage their copyright in a wise and conscious way. I want everyone to be able to enter into creative, innovative collaborations with open eyes and have a long-term plan for how to protect, make available and use what is created. I also want us to improve the balance between the intellectual property holders and the great dragons who sometimes exploit the success of less innovators and authors without paying for it legitimately. There's more to do. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies, the Government has shown that it sees a functioning intellectual property and strategic management of intangible assets as important prerequisites. We can't succeed if we don't. This is an extremely important part of nutrition policy which, in my opinion, does not always get its rightful share of the space in the debate. That is why I am delighted, Madam President, that we are having this debate today. In order to develop further on social democratic intellectual property policy, we believe it is extremely important to safeguard the position of the weaker, enable collective management that we have today and other forms of small becoming strong together – just like part of the Swedish model. We also want to enable different types of authors with different needs to be able to live on their works and innovations. It does not look the same for everyone, so there must be different opportunities to manage their copyright. We Social Democrats argue, with emphasis, what is in the law book that all IP violations are crimes. It should be obvious, but unfortunately it is not for everyone. You cannot take advantage of what belongs to someone else, not even digitally, without paying for it in any way. It is extremely important to make a statement. Madam President, I would like Moreover, the regulatory framework must always be modern and simple, as someone said before me in the debate. It should also be technologically neutral so that the regulatory framework keeps up with the constantly evolving technology. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. It should be easy to protect your assets, but it should also be easy to share, make available and collaborate with others. It is necessary to find the dynamism and innovation needed to further increase innovation and development. Above all, and as I started with, we need to raise awareness so that both large and small innovators can have a strategy for their intangible assets, make conscious choices about and when something should be protected and how to wisely manage the rights they have. Madam President, I would like There is more to do, and we need to be better at using the information available, for example in patent databases, so that we do not have to detour in the future. We need to be more effective in the use of already protected assets. More women need support to develop their innovations and realise their dreams. Furthermore, we need to find ways, preferably at European level, to protect small and medium-sized innovators so that they can have their rights met. Several speakers before me have been in this area today. A national insurance solution has been investigated, but it is far too expensive. On the other hand, the government has pushed the question that we should look at such a solution at European level. With a greater base, it can become economically viable. On the other hand, Madam President, the fact that the state would go in and directly support a party to a dispute is, in my view, totally unreasonable, and it is not legally certain. Madam President, I would like At the same time last year we had the corresponding debate in which we handled motions on intellectual property rights from the AMT. Then the whole discussion was about the DSM directive, which I had hoped we could implement in a week's time as was decided. However, due to delays in the guidelines that we are waiting for from the European Commission, a departmental spromemoria has still not arrived. The DSM Directive does not sound very fancy, but it should clarify how authors have the right to be paid when their materials are used digitally. It is extremely important because we are streaming more and more. Many in the creative industries are waiting and longing for the directive, and unfortunately we Social Democrats were the only ones who voted in favour of the directive in the European Council. But I look forward to finding ways to implement the directive in Swedish legislation. Madam President, I would like With increased knowledge from more creators and innovators, with developed collaboration between different sectors of society as well as stable security systems that allow more people to venture forward and test their idea and realize their dreams, we can both continue to be a world-leading nation in innovation and continue to be a world-leading cultural export nation.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-645	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Eriksson for a clarification about the government's view and that there are opportunities ahead. I asked for the floor because I would like to ask about geographical indications and the search engines available within the European Union, which are crucial for companies to be able to participate in various trade agreements. Åsa Eriksson said that these databases already exist through the Swedish Food Administration, and she said they are excellent. At the same time, she said it would be easy to do the right thing. If industry says that it is not easy but difficult, especially for a small company, to access the various databases, something else is needed. A Member said earlier that it is a question of looking from door to door, where the entrepreneur is and what he has to do on his journey forward. In this perspective, I would like to hear what Åsa Eriksson thinks. It is easy to say that it is a good thing as it is. I do not stand there, but I feel that it is important to lower the thresholds so that we can take on the knowledge so that we can find solutions that help Swedish companies out there in the world.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-648	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for giving me the opportunity to develop these issues a little more. I do not wish to say that it is a good thing as it is, and I hope it was clear from my speech that we need to increase the knowledge of many different actors. For example, the government has commissioned PRV, Vinnova and the Swedish Agency for Growth to increase knowledge in different ways. Efforts have also been made to increase the knowledge of Almi so that companies can be guided to find more knowledge and improve their ability. The honourable Member is absolutely right here. Far too few companies today have a well-thought-out strategy and know how to act wisely. There we need to increase knowledge. But just as the government writes in the bill, this matter is not the right place, but other information efforts are being made. For example, more money has been added to the PRV to continue to make knowledge-raising efforts. I am not sure that is enough, but we will certainly have to continue. I think we need to help each other and work together in different ways. It should be – I represent the honourable Member, Camilla Brodin – easy to do the right thing. And we're gonna have to work on this all the time. I mean that the information exists, but now we have to show that it exists and how it can be used in the best possible way.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-653	Madam President, I would like The Patent and Registration Office is an amazing authority, and there are paths there. But there are companies that do not know about this. It is good and correct that the information is available and that it should be easy to access it. One should not sit in one's daily life and refrain from participating in trade agreements or get in trouble and get caught up in the web because of the good that we want to achieve with protection. I look forward to hearing more about this. I have another question, and it is about the fact that a lot of the evidence means that there is a lot of work going on at European level in different contexts. Various proposals are expected. At the same time, there has been information from the business community saying that the government is too passive, that participation in Brussels in these contexts is too passive. It waits for what will happen instead of our amazing knowledge nation taking another step and becoming active by bringing our knowledge to Brussels to set the agenda. The honourable Member will be happy to elaborate on that.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-655	Madam President, I would like More companies in Sweden need help to gain better knowledge. Then I would like to highlight the mission that Vinnova had from the government, including the availability of IP checks that many small and medium-sized enterprises used. I don't remember the exact figure, but it was well over 90 percent who thought they could work more business-strategicly. It was because they gained more knowledge. It is an excellent example of how we can work to raise the knowledge of small and medium-sized enterprises and innovators. We need to keep doing that. As far as work at EU level is concerned, it is true that much is going on, such as the IP Action Plan. We look forward to One Stop Shop, which will be an information centre where all companies can turn to get better knowledge and guidance on intellectual property. It's important. There is also talk of introducing time-limits so that, for example, there will be a maximum of one year's processing time in different instances. There are other things too. I do not agree with the picture that Sweden and the Swedish Government would be passive in these talks. On the contrary, my view is that we are pushing and trying to contribute all the knowledge we have and bringing in the input we get from the business community. I look forward to further progressive development for innovation and development in Sweden and in the rest of Europe.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-659	Madam President, I would like We are debating proposals for legislative changes to strengthen the protection of geographical indications and provide clearer rules for registration of trade marks and company names in bad faith. We, the Left Party, will support the committee's proposal, but I would like to clarify our position by means of a separate opinion. In the case, it is pointed out that the length of proceedings in the courts is being shortened, and we think that is very positive. But I believe that patents for small businesses, start-ups and inventors need to be secured in a better way if Sweden's innovation power is to be strengthened. Patent trials are very expensive, which means that few dare to take the risk of initiating a legal process. The smaller the company, the more difficult it is to take the risk of initiating such a process. There are recurring examples of small businesses, innovators and inventors going bankrupt due to legal costs or lengthy court proceedings. During the spring of 2021, I pointed out in Parliament's treatment of the Government's proposal Research, freedom, future – knowledge and innovation for Sweden that we need to strengthen innovation by reviewing the legal processes. It touches this case. We need to review this in order to strengthen innovation. The European Commission and the World Intellectual Property Organization have studied these issues among many others. In conclusion, they have found that the rules of procedure are a fundamental pillar of a patent system, that cost allocation is of fundamental importance and that time to the legal ruling is of great importance, but also that data for comparison between different systems are lacking. In Sweden, trials take a long time compared to similar trials in other parts of the world, and costs scare. The mechanisms simply need to be democratised. I then advocated and now advocate that the Riksdag call on the Government to investigate how the imbalance between the parties in court can be minimised. One of the starting points for such a review should be to examine how the imbalance affects the utilisation of research and the willingness to innovate, for this, of course, affects our innovation power. Unfortunately, the issue does not highlight the need for this. Although I have made proposals on this under another bill, I choose to present a specific opinion to illustrate this. Of course, just reviewing court proceedings is not enough to strengthen innovation. Efforts are also needed to strengthen, for example, women's innovation and corporate social rights. It would be a great support for small businesses that work with innovation so that they can feel more secure in their work. All of this strengthens our country's innovation power.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-670	Madam President, I would like Now we are talking about sustainable regional development until 2030. The Government notes that the objective of regional development policy is development power with enhanced local and regional competitiveness for sustainable development in all parts of the country. That's how far we're in. We have no objection to the overall purpose of the Government's strategy for sustainable regional development. It is important to take a holistic approach to the direction of regional development policy and to coordinate it with other relevant policies such as rural policy, sustainable urban development policy and environmental policy. How we look at different solutions differs, and we lack elements in the government's national strategy. I'll get back to them. Madam President, I would like 21 regions represent a diversity of conditions and needs from a growth perspective. Looking to the country as a whole, it is about removing problems that stand in the way of our society becoming sustainable and achieving its full growth potential. In this context, infrastructure plays a major role. In Skåne, places need to be linked together in order for people to be able to commute, and that pattern repeats itself across the country. That is why, as we see it, the solution is not to build high-speed trains at great costs with low benefits for those funds. In Skåne trains need to stop in the city centres, not leave Malmö to go up to Stockholm. That is why we want to see the funds that the government spends on high-speed rail instead go to using existing rail, to renovate and develop what we have. In our southern region, one of the 21st, we are talking about a rounder Skåne and thinking about the labour market and education based on collective connections between locations. Well-developed and functioning transport systems are the basis for growth and employment and, in the long run, financing of common welfare and security systems. Unfortunately, we see that there is an artificial conflict between different modes of transport. We believe that bikes, cars, trucks, buses, subways, trains and flights are all needed. A long debate on this took place earlier today with regard to Bromma airport. It is therefore important to take into account the interaction between all modes of transport and to make the best possible for growth across the country. Regional development requires not only improved maintenance plans and sound economic balances, but also clear efforts both on the individual road network and on maintenance. We therefore want to see stronger investments in both maintenance and deployment of charging systems throughout the country. The regulatory framework for the strategic and economic planning of roads is complex and difficult to understand. As we see it, there is a need for a thorough review. Madam President, I would like Opportunities need to be created for aviation to be included as an obvious means of transport alongside all other modes of transport. The large state airports require the inflow from regional passenger traffic for transport out of the country. The long distances in Sweden place great demands on the means of transport that enable fast travel to be available. The ability to travel quickly in the country can be a crucial factor both for people to want to live and live in certain parts of the country and for companies to have access to highly specialised skills. Last Friday it was for the first time since the pandemic three flights on the plate at Ängelholm Helsingborg airport. It was gratifying from various points of view. A national team would train in Båstad. This means that our cultural and sports industry is back on track. It is a sign that we are slowly returning to normal, that is, what we felt before the pandemic. It also shows that sustainability is the focus. Ängelholm Helsingborg Airport works with sustainability and uses fuels to move forward on the road to become fossil-free in 2030. It's good to see. Regional airports are important nodes in a country with great distances like ours. They are important for education and jobs and for the tourism industry. This is particularly important in the area I come from. We believe in change and technological development, not abandonment. In addition, regional airports are necessary from a security and preparedness perspective. I make a short stop at ferry traffic with an example from Skåne, where there are electric ferries between Helsingborg and Helsingör today. It takes a lot of electricity, must be said – as much as to the small community Rydebäck south of Helsingborg. Why am I saying this? Well, because there's a big change going on. Skåne and Sweden want a lot, but the increasing use of electricity demands that the electricity grids work and that there is capacity around the clock in a secure system. That's not where we're with government policy. There was – and there is – a reason why the expression was impossible to make coffee and load ships at the same time in 2019. This is a symbol of power shortages, as it uses a lot of electricity both to charge ferries and for society as a whole to develop. These are residential areas, the MAX IV laboratory and the ESS facility. It is about research and development and about living, living and being able to work in the country. It is also about our large industry being able to do what we can to achieve the growth we need. Our country needs a large base power that is fossil-free and planable. In addition, transmission capacity needs to be both renewed and expanded. Elkriser, especially in Skåne and Stockholm, has shown obvious shortcomings. At the same time, electrification of society is increasing. Large industrial investments – not least the investments in the north, which are very large – will have a very good effect on Sweden, but this requires that they can be supplied with the necessary electricity and that the country as a whole can live at competitive prices. It is clear to us, even in everyday life, that the ability to produce electricity in all parts of the country needs to be expanded. Nuclear power also has a given place in the energy mix for us. The reliability of nuclear power in the electrical system, around the clock and regardless of the weather, makes it a basic bolt along with other types of energy. Anyone who does not believe this needs in any way to answer the question of how to achieve the same security with solutions other than nuclear power. That is precisely the specific content we are defending. Madam President, I would like The forestry industry is an important industry. It creates jobs and prosperity in areas that do not otherwise have a large supply of jobs. We can see that ownership is fundamental to all forest production. A strong ownership that includes both the right to use the land you own and the principle of freedom under responsibility is required in order for Swedish foresters to have good opportunities to conduct and develop their activities. We therefore believe that it is important to protect property rights in order for Swedish forestry companies to remain strong in international competition. Another perspective on government policy and strategy is about our security. In many parts of the country, the police are perceived as absent, and it is far from obvious that the police can pull out if someone is affected by a crime. In addition, we know that far too few crimes are cleared up. Investigations take a long time, and the police are forced because of the strained situation to prioritise between investigations of serious crimes. It is our view that the police should be available throughout society – in the countryside and in the big city – throughout the year. We therefore believe that security-building efforts are needed in the country so that more households and businesses dare to stay or move to and establish themselves in rural and rural areas without fear that the police will not be present. In order to safeguard the security system in all parts of the country, it is therefore important that the police receive the necessary resources and that the number of police officers increase. Madam President, I would like In my own county, there is no labour force with the right skills for companies to apply for and receive. This also applies elsewhere in the country. It's about the shortage professions. In Skåne, however, it is obvious that we do not have the exchange we should have when it comes to growth. We should have more growth than we have. The conditions that prevail there should give more, but unfortunately that is not the case. Therefore, proper action is needed. One thing that worries is therefore what will happen in the coming years with the sharp rise in unemployment in Sweden. Prime Minister Löfven promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate, but under his leadership we have come to have Europe's highest. During this crisis, we have seen that important jobs in restaurant and commerce have been lost, which has made it increasingly difficult not least for young and foreign born to get jobs. Breaking the alienation will be a big and important issue for a future new government in Sweden. Madam President, I would like With this, and with selected examples, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. However, I naturally support all our reservations on this matter.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-704	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4, but I naturally support all our reservations in the report. Today, we are debating the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs 24 with the long name National Strategy for Sustainable Regional Development throughout the country 2021 – 2030. This is, quite simply, the Parliament's response to the Government's over 50-page letter with the same name. Let me first say that it is, of course, a good thing that the government has ambitions in this area. Nor do we have any objection to the overall aim of the strategy proposed by the government, but we share the government's view that it is important to take a holistic approach to its orientation. Regional development policy is likely to benefit from coordination with other relevant policies, such as rural policy, sustainable urban development policy and environmental policy. So far, so good. However, we believe that the strategy – i.e. the one proposed in the Government's letter – completely lacks, or only fleetingly touches on, a number of essential perspectives that we consider absolutely necessary in order to better respond to rural challenges and exploit its potential. That is what I intend to talk about in this speech. Madam President, I would like I'm based in Norrbotten. After all, it is easy to get into the reasoning of one's own constituency when you debate an issue that is so easily associated with it. I apologise for this, because regional growth is an equally urgent issue wherever you are in the country. Right now, Madam President, Norrbotten is even walking like a train – the train that we have been waiting for for years in the form of the completion of the Norrbotnia railway. In addition, the Norrbotnia Line is a really good example of a project that could seriously contribute and stimulate regional growth. Well – next Friday, my wife and I will go the 25 miles from Gällivare to Luleå to celebrate my bonus daughter's matriculation examination. We're going 25 miles along a European road, the standard of which is far from the best. This road is largely devoid of meeting separation and therefore has its speed limit reduced by distance. It is a circumstance that makes our gigantic county even bigger when you do as we do up there and measure the distances in the time it takes to drive them. In addition, over several routes along this European road, mobile phone coverage is subject to criticism – calls can hardly be made. What it looks like with mobile data, I'll leave it to you to listen to figure it out for yourself. A couple of years ago I and my pregnant wife skimmed off the snow-modified European road barely halfway to Luleå, where we would go for a meeting. Emergency services, ambulances and police were called. The police patrol that arrived was from the station in Haparanda, 150 miles away. At the same time as we were transported in an ambulance for the 12 miles to Gällivare Hospital, the police drove our dogs to the vet in Gällivare and then had 27 miles to drive to get back to their police station. Who would have pulled out if something had happened in Haparanda during the hours when they were not in place? I'm just wondering. Now some who listen to this speech may wonder what on earth these private views have to do with the national strategy for sustainable regional growth throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The path I have just talked about is the artery itself through Norrbotten, from the coast of Bothnia via Malmfälten and the mountain world to the northern northern port town of Narvik. This route is also the route on which many travel to commute to work in mines and forests or to one of the county's constantly understaffed hospitals. This situation is by no means unique. Although the distances in Norrbotten and Västerbotten are larger than they are in Dalarna, Värmland and Jämtland, or why not on the Småland Highlands, I think many people recognize themselves in my reality description. That is why, Madam President, it is a mystery to me that a more than 50-page document on how to secure regional growth throughout Sweden does not mention in a single word either the role of the passenger car, the truck or the road infrastructure in making regional growth possible. In fact, in many parts of the country, growth is not possible at all without road transport, whether you like it or not. In fact, the fact that one can miss something so fundamental is astounding, and it does not promote belief in regional growth throughout the country. It is also one of the reasons for the Swedish Democrats' follow-up motion. Another thing that is involved in my private reflections is the police presence, or rather the lack of the same. My example should be telling and maybe it can act as an alarm clock. And it's not good enough to snooze when this alarm bell rings! The current situation creates insecurity and a feeling in people of being out of priority. Nor is it conducive to regional growth throughout the country. That is why we also highlight the need for a greater police presence in all parts of the country in our follow-up motion. In this speech, which is largely based on my own views of reality, I have already mentioned the lack of mobile coverage in many places. If it is bad along our European roads in northern Sweden, it is nothing compared to what it is along our railways. I myself have tried to ride trains from home Gällivare to Stockholm a number of times, as some parties' representatives advocate that we should always do. And believe me in my word-- it's an experience away from the glossy picture of laptop-working commuters you see in the train companies brochures. Rather, it can be described as, along the main track, no one can hear you screaming, which could be the name of a B-fear if it wasn't because it's actually true. Thankfully, this is a problem which the government actually addresses in its letter, and for that I am grateful. What is missing from the Government's letter, however, is a description of how the Government intends to ensure a secure and stable electricity supply throughout the country. We are seeing today how power shortages arise and how transmission capacity is not enough when large parts of the industry are electrified while fully functioning nuclear reactors are being shut down prematurely in southern Sweden. Unconsidered and hasty political decisions mean that more and more energy must now be transferred to southern Sweden from places where electricity generation has not previously taken place and therefore no electricity infrastructure exists. This certainly does not promote regional growth throughout the country. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats also highlight the need for secure and stable electricity supply in all parts of the country in our follow-up motion. In our follow-up motion, we also mention the great importance of regional airports and their preconditions. We are concerned with education issues and how important it is to invest in the school system from primary to academic – throughout the country. We are following up proposals on forest-related issues. Not least, in our follow-up motion, we also propose a study of one of our political proposals, which we believe could have created the conditions for real regional growth, namely the proposal for the regionalisation of property tax on industrial properties and power generation units. Madam President, I would like I believe that our proposal for the regionalisation of property tax on industrial properties and electricity generation units really deserves to be investigated. The proposal may not really fit within the framework of what the government's letter is about and therefore of what the debate on the report should be about here today, but I would nevertheless like to highlight it as a clear example of the ambitions of the Swedish democrats in the area of regional growth.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-726	Madam President, I would like Sweden has large and growing regional differences. These differences have also increased as a consequence of the ongoing pandemic. The economic consequences of the pandemic are great, and most worrying are developments in the labour market. The Left Party wants to build a stronger society that can take care of its inhabitants whether the crisis is global and affects everyone or whether it is personal. There is a need for a comprehensive strategy for regional development policy based on long-term sustainability, developed cooperation, greater regional influence and a clear responsibility for the state to ensure that basic public services exist throughout the country. Access to public services is crucial for people to live and live in different parts of the country. Government services must also be available in rural areas. There is therefore a need for efforts to make important societal functions available in areas where the public has been dismantled. I see a clear trend that shops are closing down and jobs are disappearing when market forces are given free leeway. In recent decades, the public has been the first to leave the countryside and suburbs to their fate. I want to see initiatives that affect all parts of society. The proposal for a national strategy for sustainable regional development states that the government has identified five areas with major societal changes as the key to achieving the objective of regional development policy. It is about demography, globalisation, the environment and climate, socio-economic and cohesion, and technological development. It sounds good to want to identify these as part of the puzzle for the whole country to live. Unfortunately, we can also see that the government is pushing forward policies that go against the central areas of good regional development. I do not see anything that I can disagree with precisely in the strategy, but I am concerned that there has not been consistency in various areas. The state must take overall responsibility for a series of measures that ensure that businesses can be set up, grow and run. We need a policy that provides a comprehensive solution that allows us to rely on the welfare society, that it works no matter where you live and that it provides the conditions for jobs, housing and good public service. Madam President, I would like For several years, the Left Party has put forward proposals that need to be implemented in order to promote regional development. This applies, for example, to proposals on the energy issue. It is clear that some municipalities have had to account for large parts of energy production. It is particularly clear with hydropower. I believe that the regions and municipalities with this type of production should be able to retain some of its value. The fact that more of the values of natural resources remain where they are extracted is very valuable to those living in these places. It is about compensating for what our common consumption does with these municipalities anyway. Although hydropower generates huge sums of money, only a very small part of the surplus comes from these municipalities. These sums could be used to drive the development of local communities and to compensate for the reduction that this activity still entails in the environment. The same applies to wind power. There is local area compensation as a requirement from different municipalities, but it is not mandatory. The sum is negotiable, and many companies that have agreed to pay do not follow through. Today it is Sweden's rural and sparsely populated area that keeps up Sweden's wind power. These parts of the country should receive fair compensation for this, especially given that we believe that we should have even more wind power. We from the Left Party want to see a legally regulated district epeng from wind power where the money goes both to the local area and to the municipality. Something we will discuss during the next agenda item is Nordic cooperation. It is of great importance for regional development in large parts of the country. Unfortunately, we have seen that Nordic cooperation is not as anchored as we thought it was, but I think there is a great potential in developing Nordic cooperation across national borders. We have a lot in common with our Nordic neighbours and would benefit from developing cooperation in a number of areas, such as infrastructure, research, capital supply, labour market and services – especially in border regions. Our proposal in the Nordic cooperation is to develop a regional policy collaboration between the Nordic countries. We propose, among other things, to facilitate and increase the security of workers who live in other Nordic countries but work here and vice versa. Today, for example, there is a lack of information about those who move across borders, and here we need more information in order to further develop Nordic cooperation. Regional development involves so much. It may be where the nearest hospital and pharmacy are located and if there is accommodation and work. For children and young people, school and cultural and leisure activities are of course important. But, of course, the strategy does not address this at a detailed level. I believe that these issues are not dealt with in the best way. Today, unfortunately, it matters where you live, which does not promote Sweden's development. It should not matter whether you live in the countryside or in a suburb. I call for approval of the Left Party Motivation Reserve 4.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-744	Madam President, I would like I want to take a start in an interesting journalistic work done by a local news desk in northern Sweden the other day. On the other hand, they had done a number of short interviews, and on the other hand they had a chat where everyone was offered the opportunity to answer the question: What does it take for you to move for a job? There was, of course, a mix of voices, and care should be taken to formulate one's own positions on the basis of answers on the subject of free housing and SEK 1 million in hand. But with full awareness that anecdotal stories have their limited value, I still noticed two things that stuck out and that I think have some bearing on real demand: stable broadband and a good grocery store. The small interviews and chats, which were probably made with a glimpse in the eye, came from a news story that spread the days before that a very large migration to municipalities like Gällivare, Boden and Skellefteå was needed. The reason for this is companies such as Hybrid, H2 Green Steel and Northvolt. It has already been suggested by some that the state should subsidise and contribute to people moving to northern Sweden. I don't think that's the best way to spend tax money. But creating the conditions for the whole of Sweden to live is extremely important, and it is exciting with the development that is now taking place in the north of our elongated country. What the state should do to nurture the power that exists in the different parts of the country with different conditions is to ensure that society is strong throughout the country on a variety of fronts. Madam President, I would like I will address some of the areas where we Christian Democrats lack some initiative from the government. First of all, I would like to highlight the need to ensure that the electrification of our country can continue and that the necessary upgrading is done. We are used to being able to bring electricity from northern to southern Sweden. But that will not be a matter of course in the future, given the expansion plans that exist in the municipalities I have just listed. Therefore, we need a plan for how we can scale our energy production to levels we have never been near before. We must aim for this to happen with an energy mix that is fossil-free. This means, among other things, that we must ensure planned electricity generation in southern Sweden. Without electricity, we will have no regional development or national development. Madam President, I would like We must also increase our ambition to ensure better functioning communications in Sweden and work more clearly on the basis that all modes of transport are needed and complementary. In particular, it is important to recall that fibre can be as important as road and rail infrastructure. There is more to do here to show that the whole of Sweden counts. We are not going to debate the future of Bromma airport now, because it has just been done in this House. However, I would like to take the opportunity to remind you of the importance of giving aviation opportunities to participate and contribute in the transition to fossil-free. We will need more, not fewer, airports when the aviation industry becomes fossil-free. I am therefore pleased that a majority in this House today is putting an end to Bromma airport's early decommissioning, because that would be a killing blow for the regional development power in Sweden, where aviation is also an important part of it. Madam President, I would like There is something very fundamental that shines with its absence in the letter, namely security. The judiciary is a basic public service. In order to safeguard the security of all parts of the country, it is important that the police have the resources to be present throughout the country. The Christian Democrats therefore want to see a strengthening of the judiciary at all levels. In short, our country needs more police officers who can be present in local communities, and there is a need for courts in more places than today. Centralisation on this point has gone far too far. This aspect of welfare seems forgotten by the government, and it is a serious shortcoming. Madam President, I would like Finally, I shall address an area in which we Christian Democrats want to see a major change. We call that century's health reform. For reasons of formality, it was not possible for us to write a request on this point in connection with the letter. However, since the health issue is mentioned in the report, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of fairer and equitable healthcare. Our view is that the state should take the main responsibility to ensure good, effective and equal health care throughout the country. It could be a solid base for positive regional development throughout Sweden. Where in the country you live should not determine whether you get access to high-quality care on time. Today, accessibility is the biggest problem in Swedish healthcare. Care queues are not a natural law. Other countries are capable of providing care without long queues, and we Christian Democrats believe that Sweden can do so too. However, reforms are needed to re-think and rebuild, which is why we are putting forward a proposal to scrap the responsibility of the regions for health care. The whole of Sweden deserves medical care to be trusted. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation number one.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-762	Madam President, I would like Now we are debating NOW24 on a national strategy for sustainable regional development throughout the country. I support the committee's proposal in the report. The accompanying motions discussed in the report concern energy supply, police presence, skills councils, transport, profits from natural resources, the effects of the pandemic, regional airports, property rights and equal schools. These are questions that I can support – most, not all. The problem is that some of them do not belong in this particular report. All the issues on which the motions are concerned have already been dealt with in our committees or in other committees, this year or last year, such as airports, as someone mentioned in the previous debate. This is a strategy that points the way, not concrete measures. The strategy is about major societal challenges, with three starting points: changes in Sweden and the world around it, the transition to a sustainable society and the importance of a territorial perspective. The challenges vary between different parts of the country and, together with globalisation, digitalisation and other technological developments, will affect social development. The conditions are different and vary between different parts of the country. That is why the strategy needs to have a territorial perspective. Madam President, I would like The strategy is divided into four strategic areas in order to meet societal challenges: equal opportunities for housing, work and well-being throughout the country; skills provision and competence development across the country; innovation and innovation as well as entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship across the country; and accessibility across the country through digital communication and transport systems. The Government also identifies a number of priorities for each strategic area. In order to succeed, efforts need to be made in the four strategic areas in order to create good conditions for the implementation of regional development policies. Here, in principle, all the policies needed for it to succeed are concerned, and everyone needs to pull in the same direction, both politics and authorities. The government has identified five areas of major societal change that are most central to achieving the objective of regional development policy: demography, globalisation, environment and climate, socio-economic cohesion and technological development. Madam President, I would like What, then, needs to be done to achieve the objective of regional development policy? Well, it takes us all to do something. That is what the government wants, and I know that all parties in this House want to do as well. For example, the presence of state authorities throughout the country is needed. The Government has taken 22 decisions on the location of all or part of existing authorities' activities outside Stockholm. Currently there are 117 service offices across the country, 13 offices have opened since 2015, and another 4 are decided and under way. Last week, the government presented a further expansion of the state service agencies, following proposals in an investigation conducted by Sven-Erik-Erik Österberg, which was finalized in December 2020. The proposal presented includes an initiative of 28 new service offices, from Boden in the north to Laholm in the south. In Kronoberg County, where I live, there will be two new offices, one in Tingsryd Municipality and one in Växjö Municipality. Municipal councillor Mikael Jeansson in Tingsryd is very happy and sees a civic house where the municipality and state hook arms in a very good service to the residents and entrepreneurs. We see that support for commercial and public services is also important for living and operating throughout the country. The aid has stopped the closure of shops in rural areas, and new ones have also been added since the introduction of the aid. Distance to the nearest store has decreased. Madam President, I would like Much needs to be done in order for the whole of Sweden to live, and it looks very different in our elongated country. That is why efforts to promote sustainable regional development need to have a territorial perspective. This means that the potential of each area is exploited on the basis of its conditions, in the city as well as in the countryside. In the city it is crowded, and in the countryside it is sparse. Both have their challenges, but in different ways. Regional development policies therefore need to be different. We can see the development in northern Sweden, where steel will now be made without coal. It is Hybrid in Luleå, where the pilot plant was started in 2018 and where the production will be completely fossil-free, but also H2 Green Steel in Boden. This redraws the map of where jobs will be in the future. Major investments have also been made in Northvolt's battery factory in Skellefteå. Their research and development takes place in Västerås, where solutions are developed to recycle batteries so that 50 percent of the company's material needs are covered by recycled materials. The Government has invested SEK 238 million in the development of battery cells and the expansion of an electrification campus for battery research in Västerås. All this is done because companies want to be climate neutral, reduce their emissions or completely remove them. They do this because customers are asking for it. Sweden's climate target of having no net greenhouse gas emissions in 2045 is within reach. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. In this, the forest is also important. Sweden's area consists of 70 per cent of forests, and it is by definition located in rural areas. That is why we need to use it wisely and for what it is needed for. It is important that we use the forest in the best way. It is important that in all decisions we take we think about how they affect the development in different parts of Sweden but also that different policies are needed for different parts of the country. This issue also lies with the regions. They develop regional development strategies for their regions, RUS as they are called at the regional level. In Kronoberg County, the target is Green Kronoberg – open and sustainable habitats with renewable capacity in 2025. It aims to become a plus-energy county, with sub-strategies such as skills provision, transport supply, culture, regional service programmes, regional broadband strategy, municipal survey plans and more. Right now we are not allowed to go out in the country, but when we used to do it we saw that there are lots of exciting things happening in Sweden. The playing field is changing, and it's going very fast. We have seen, not least now during the pandemic, how fast it goes. We've been digitized whether we like it or not. Of course, we will take advantage of this and continue to do so. Large investments are being made in broadband expansion, and we need to continue to do so. At the same time, after more than a year in front of the screen, we are heartily tired of it and want to meet physically again. What we know about the future is that it will not be the way it was.
i-4u4tyBPqsxo7frKJRVaJra	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica Haider, for the post! I am a little surprised that it is claimed that our interventions did not really have anything to do with the matter because they went beyond the territorial strategy put forward by the government. That's how it all started. I was thinking about what was the difference. We have heard a number of stories about infrastructure. There are roads up in Norrland that are major thoroughfare routes and that are not sustainable. It's about building new industries up north. Modern solutions are linked, and that is forward-looking and innovation. We also addressed this in various ways. This is going to require electricity, and that's a problem for us. The possibility is a problem because there will be no electricity, as someone mentioned earlier – I think it was Camilla from the Christian Democrats. She said north to south doesn't work because north will have to use its electricity. I also mentioned regional growth, just as Monica Haider did for her county. I have Skåne, and there you shout in megaphones that you do not have access to the electricity that you need to be able to fulfil your mission for population, industry, development, growth and jobs. Skills provision is also an area. When I fly from sustainable Ängelholm Helsingborg airport, which works for renewal and change, there are people on the plane who take a welding training course down in Skåne. Not everything is everywhere. But in a long country with smart solutions you can also get around, and these people come home with good skills.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-785	Madam President, I would like What I began my speech with, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, was that the proposals in the accompanying motions have been discussed this year or last year here in Parliament. The strategy is that this level of detail does not exist.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-786	Madam President, I would like It was there that I felt that Monica Haider was still in an area where she also raises issues that we have talked about in the past in terms of regional growth. There's a budget part, too. We have discussed all these issues, and they go into each other. We have different policy areas – business, education, infrastructure and so on – and they go into each other. If we talk about globalisation, we are talking about trade policy and also about the opportunities for our companies to grow in the place where they are – that industry can make progress, that there is electricity in place, that there is labour, that there is work and that there can be development and growth in the country. For me, the environment and climate are the same thing. If one is now to become environmentally friendly and invest in electricity – which I mentioned in my speech with all the aspects that exist in a Skåne that is changing, to mention my part of the world and Sweden as a whole – it means that it is about electricity supply. And yes, then we're in other areas. But we cannot fail to do so, because all of this is about our having such different views of what we have in store for the future. For example, it is very restrictive for me to remove nuclear power in an energy mix. If it is not for nuclear power to do everything that we want to do in our country, then it must be something else. But what kind of energy, though, has the quality of being there 24 hours a day all year round, preventing it from stopping and becoming problems along the way for our industry and development? That is one of these aspects. We have also talked about this in the energy sector where we differ. Then Monica Haider brought up the forest, that it is 70 percent forest and that it is wise use that applies. So do we. You have to use and own your forest. It was also an example that I mentioned in my speech. It cannot be the case that territorial strategy with horizontal elements should apply sometimes, and sometimes some of us should not mention the things that exist when Monica Haider herself highlights them. That's where my thought went wrong.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-791	Mr President, I would like to What I said, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, was that the issues that I mention and on which you have written supplementary motions have already been dealt with here in Parliament in other committees, exactly the same proposals that you raise in the follow-up motions and which are addressed in the report. I agree that there are a great many issues that are important and that are about regional development. However, they are not dealt with in this report. The issue of energy is one such issue. On the issue of energy, I have only been waiting for the question of nuclear power to be mentioned. But now it was taken up. You can tick that you have mentioned nuclear energy in this debate as well.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-794	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about the letter National strategy for sustainable regional development throughout the country 2021 – 2030. One might wonder whether sustainable regional development is a new idea. Sweden was around the turn of the century, around 1900, a society in rapid transformation with rapidly growing industry and urbanization. The contradictions were great between the old and the new, between capital and labour. The farmers had been under pressure, and they felt that there were no spokesmen who could represent them. From this the Center Party was born. The questions that Carl Berglund fought for, and which were later driven by Gunnar Hedlund and Thorbjörn Fälldin, are still not solved. I have read some of Thorbjörn Fälldin's motions on regional policy from the 1970s, and the problems he described there are equally topical today. The letter we are debating states that the objective of regional development policy is development power with enhanced local and regional competitiveness for sustainable development in all parts of the country. I find it difficult to see that any party in Parliament is against this. If you take a historical look at the regional population-adjusted GDP in Sweden from 1860 to today, you can see that there has been no obvious correlation between equality in GDP per capita and population concentration. The first wave of industrialisation between 1860 and 1910 reduced gaps in both income and population terms. It was also a liberal period in which, for example, the passport requirement for domestic travel was abolished. In the post-war period, active regional policy contributed to creating historically small differences in GDP per capita but at the cost of increased depopulation in some parts of the country. The migration policy that prevailed at the time was met with sharp criticism from many. Many of us remember the expression, "We've moved away" and "Ams" got a new meaning with the words, "everybody had to go south." A policy of solidarity on wages and an active industrial policy has accelerated this structural change. Therefore, we could see that the regional disparities in GDP per capita were very small in the early 1980s. Mr President, I would like to Since the 1980s, development has meant increasing gaps in both population density and GDP per capita, a combination of trends that are historically unique, at least for Sweden. We see a new kind of regional exclusion that risks threatening the cohesion of society. Depopulation in Swedish municipalities is a real problem. Over the past 40 years, the population has fallen in almost half of the country's municipalities. Low population numbers hamper the maintenance of social functions such as school, health care and police. In addition, smaller municipalities may find it difficult to recruit and retain the necessary specialist skills. This is true both in the private sector and in the public sector. As big cities' role as a growth engine increases, it may seem natural that infrastructure efforts are directed towards these areas. This is particularly significant in cases where municipalities are called upon to co-finance part of government initiatives themselves. The idea of the big city as a national growth engine could then be in contradiction with the principle of benefiting the least favoured areas. But if government resources are spent on improving the role of cities as a growth engine, it may seem reasonable that part of the growth goes back to the whole kingdom. Today's historic challenge, with growing differences in both GDP per capita and population density, requires political action if we are serious about the whole country living. The division that we see in Sweden is also seen in other countries. Globalisation has brought much good. But there are also people who cannot or cannot take part in globalisation. To be able to give people confidence in the future is perhaps the most important regional policy decision that we can make in this House. The starting points set out in the letter indicate the changes in Sweden and the rest of the world. Five areas are listed. It is demographics, globalisation, the environment and climate, socio-economic and cohesion, and technological development. I'm sure that's correct. The letter also states that social change does not seem separate but affects each other in complex relationships. These societal changes bring major societal challenges, and the government states that it is important to find solutions to meet them, not least to alleviate the negative effects that arise. Mr President, I would like to Wanting to alleviate the negative effects that occur sounds a little bit laid out in my ears. Should not the goal be to create a level playing field throughout the country and bring it into use, as is said in Norway? I find myself daily meeting politicians who want to put a wet blanket over the countryside and create a J datescansen that you can visit on vacation. Reducing regional disparities in a sustainable way cannot be achieved through dependency on subsidies or by creating jobs that are not demand-driven. The basis for positive development throughout the country is good conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, for they are the ones who create jobs. Increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship do not benefit growth and entrepreneurship, and this applies to the whole country. Regional growth policy is not only an issue that can and must be discussed within the areas of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but regional growth must also be seen when the Riksdag and the Government address issues such as infrastructure, communications, jobs, education and business policy in general. A well-functioning infrastructure and more housing are needed in smaller and larger cities as well as in towns and villages. Mr President, I would like to Both the Government and the Riksdag have clearly stated that they want the agencies' activities to be decentralised, but it is too slow. I and the Center Party believe that the tasks of the authorities need to be decentralised to a much greater extent – not to regional and university cities around the country, but to those that have lost government jobs. Access to commercial services is a prerequisite for communities to live. Right now we know that 500 sandwiches in the countryside are about to be closed before July next year, due to new regulations from MSB. Macken and the country store are interdependent, and these service points are extremely important for many rural areas. If we are serious about sustainable regional development throughout the country, we cannot stand by and watch this happen. Mr President, I would like to I and the Center Party believe that fiscal policy should be used as a tool to create growth throughout the country. This can be done by regionalising several parts of the state property tax in order to strengthen the regional level of decision-making and give the regions the opportunity to pursue growth-friendly policies on the basis of their own conditions. It goes without saying to me and the Center Party that people should be allowed to retain the fruit of their own work to a greater extent. Equally obvious is that regions that contribute with valuable production should retain large parts of this value. It must pay for municipalities and regions to improve their business environment, make productive investments and give land to infrastructure and production. The Center Party considers that the proceeds of the property tax on industrial properties and electricity-producing properties can be regionalised. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the Government states in the letter that it intends to develop an action plan for the implementation of the strategy. If it is something we have learned since the beginning of the 20th century, it is that grand strategies are not enough, but that political action is needed to create real regional development.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-814	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to those of you who have taken part in the debate! This is an important debate. We are discussing the national strategy for sustainable regional development throughout the country, and first of all I would like to say that the Liberals are behind the proposal we are discussing. We have had thousands of years, indeed, of progress, positive development and human success. Year after year and generation after generation, we've been better off because we've been working with more people. We have come up with more innovations, changed things and, subsequently, bought things. We have developed our economies. We humans have simply together – sometimes in villages, sometimes in regions, sometimes in countries and now often globally – raising our wealth and the quality of our lives. Mr President, I would like to Throughout history and through all the great changes that have taken place, there have always been people who have been opposed to development. There have been people who have found it difficult that things change and people who have thought it was better yesterday than they think it will be morning. Time and again throughout history, these people have proved to be wrong. Time and again throughout history, the opposite has proved true: we will be better off tomorrow than we are today. Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to remember this when we talk about regional development. In this letter we have identified five societal changes – it's about demography, globalisation, the environment and climate, socio-economics and cohesion, as well as technological development – and sometimes in this debate it may sound like it's getting worse to live in Sweden. You line up a lot of different anecdotes that describe how bad things have become in different ways and for different individuals, companies and so on. However, I think it will be better along the long lines. That does not mean that there are no challenges, Mr President, but if you are afraid of the future and afraid of development – if you simply do not embrace development and try to keep up with it and do something with it – I think it will be much worse than yesterday. I shall make a impact, just for example: take globalisation, Mr President – the increasingly global economy and increasingly global trade! It is something that throughout history has benefited Sweden in generation after generation, when we have built our prosperity. But it is also the case that people often talk about globalisation – about the now increasingly global economy and increasingly competitive industry in both Sweden and other parts of the world – as something negative. One may be talking about a specific industry that is unable to assert itself in global competition. It may not be able to deliver enough good products, or it may not have a good enough service to manage when it is exposed to competition. That can be difficult in the individual example, Mr President. I believe, however, that we will shoot ourselves in the foot if we, from the political side, meet these kinds of challenges by saying: Then we'll try to stop the development. Then we try to protect this business by setting up different walls and new, tough rules around it. Is there anything we know, Mr President, because we politicians cannot stop the development driven by people, by innovation and by the kind of movement that globalisation is? However, we can see the possibilities of it. We can see the possibilities of making it easier for entrepreneurs in Sweden. If we remove obstacles, cut red tape and make it more fiscally profitable to engage in entrepreneurship and innovation, the companies that disappear will be replaced by new ones. New jobs will be created in places where jobs today have been affected by competition from other countries. We'll do things a little better tomorrow than we did yesterday. That is the whole thing about all these areas – that there are also solutions. These are the solutions we need to see. We agree that there are challenges for Sweden. It is a challenge, for example, that demographic change and that we have an ageing population in some municipalities, where young people move to other parts of the country and the elderly remain. It reduces the tax base while increasing the need for welfare, and that is one of the problems that exist. But let us look at the opportunities of globalisation! Let's make it easier for more people to come to Sweden and work! Clearly, as an individual, you must have the right to move elsewhere if you want to. It's quite natural, and we don't want to go back to– I think it was the Center Party that talked about it earlier – a world where we have passports to travel within Sweden. Instead, we want people to be free to shape their lives themselves, and then we need to embrace globalisation and make sure that more people want to come here and work. We must ensure that more people want the wheels of the economy to roll, no matter where they are in the country. Mr President, I would like to One positive point in the list of areas identified by the strategy is technological development. It will do, and already today, that it is easier to live in the whole country and work digitally – somewhere else. After all, it is when politicians have stood in the way of technological development that such opportunities have taken too long. These are the opportunities we need to ensure that we create, and there is a political responsibility to ensure that there is infrastructure. In this case, it applies to IT infrastructure, and in other cases it may involve infrastructure in the form of a physical road. It is when politicians stand in the way that we get caught up in the negative aspects of the different social changes. And it is when politicians make sure to build conditions, for example through broadband and IT infrastructure and through physical infrastructure, that we can contribute to this development. The same applies to the environment and climate. I think we have debated the environmental and climate issue far too little in this discussion. We've been on the issue of electricity. It is clear that no man should ever be limited by the supply of electricity. That must still be the goal. It is an absolutely basic resource and an absolutely basic infrastructure. But it is clear that the main reason why we repeatedly have a conflict on the issue of electricity and electrification in Sweden is the climate issue. I think that from a regional development perspective we need to focus even more on the environmental issue. We Liberals believe that all people must be able to live their lives as they want wherever they want. But people want to live differently. People want different lives. Some think that the great qualities of life are found in an urban environment, in a big city where there is a crowd of different new restaurants that open and several theatres run by the public and by the private because there is a foundation. Others feel that values and quality of life come from, for example, living close to nature, walking and being able to live off what nature provides. This is also why many urban residents want to come back to their village where they grew up as soon as they have the chance and are free. Then we must ensure that we can face the changes that the climate issue brings and that we also have a very strong biodiversity and a very strong and well-preserved environment in the future. In this way, we can also safeguard the great values that exist outside our urban environments so that people want to move there, live there and work there. Mr President, I would like to I apologise for exceeding my speaking time somewhat. Once again, I support the proposal in the report as a whole.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-829	Mr President, I would like to Regional development policy is now taking its toll in the green transition. Whether we talk about developments in our rural areas, in our smaller towns or in our cities, climate change and the investment in circular economy are crucial for development. I know two people in Uppsala who graduate on Friday, Mr President. They are facing a bright future that they sing about. I really see this work of strong development throughout the country as our opportunity to contribute to their bright future. The major societal challenges that permeate the regional strategy for sustainable regional development are environmental problems and climate change, demographic change and increased disparities within Sweden and within the EU. With a wise strategy for regional development, we in Sweden can meet the challenges and create a stronger development force. We need a green recovery after covid-19. This recovery should not only create the conditions for us to return to normal, but also to face climate change. Strategically, equal opportunities for housing, education, infrastructure and a good business environment throughout the country are the prerequisites for regional policy. The implementation of regional development policy shall be coordinated with rural policy, sustainable urban development policy and environmental policy. Of course, many more policy areas are affected than that, and we also see this in the debate we have had here today. The fine words we say here in Parliament also need to be implemented. That is why the government will develop an action plan in this area. I think that this action plan will be very interesting given the major changes we are facing. Mr President, I would like to We also need to talk more about fair climate change. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We aim to make a strong contribution to the Paris Agreement and to achieve climate-positive emission levels in the future. The EU's cohesion policy includes the Structural Funds and the social funds. For a few years now, we have had a new piece of the puzzle in cohesion policy, namely the Fund for a Fair Climate Change. In Sweden, the focus of the fund will be on actions that really represent the major emission reductions. It is about climate change in the industrial sector, with steel, metal and minerals, but also in the refinery industry, including biorefineries. It is really interesting that steel without coal, the huge Swedish climate innovation that will now be carried out and become a reality thanks to the industrial life and future also thanks to the new fund for a fair climate transition, will provide a crucial development force for the whole world. The next major development area will be to increase investment in recycling of plastics and biomaterials. Bio-based materials also need to be recycled, and the bioeconomy needs to be developed in such a way that it is consistent with achieving other environmental and societal objectives, taking into account the impact on carbon sinks and biodiversity over time. In this work, the government's announced circular bioeconomy strategy will be an important tool. We often discuss forestry policy and the benefits of climate change in this House. Several speakers have been in this area in this debate. The climate benefit in the forest is on three legs. The first is the substitution, i.e. the substitution of fossil products with bio-commodities. The second is the carbon sink, that is, forest and land bind carbon dioxide when the forest stands and grows. The third is biodiversity, which is the very basis for growth in the forest. It is important to remember that there is no link between felling volumes and the degree of substitution. This action plan for the future also needs to include the development of industrial activities where we get more long-lived products from bio-raw materials. Mr President, I would like to There was a debate here earlier between two Members on the views of transport policy and energy policy expressed by some of the parties. These are really issues that belong in the regional growth debate. I do not want to prolong the debate very much. In other contexts, we have highlighted that we have an infrastructure bill that will be record-sized, with SEK 876 billion. Regional airports are important, not least in terms of preparedness. But some airports in Sweden are very close to other airports in locations where there are already rail connections. The role of the state in regional airports needs to be more pure so that we really invest in the regional airports that are needed. On behalf of the Green Party, we would also like to highlight in the energy debate that is going on and that comes up in almost all the debates in this House that there is no shortage of electricity in Sweden. We are net exporters of electricity from Sweden. However, there is a lack of effect. It's about the electricity maybe not being in the right place all the time. It is very important that we develop the energy debate so that we do not start from errors. Mr President, I would like to There is much to say about regional development policy. I believe that the most important thing is that regional development policy must be steered from the regional and local levels. With the Regional Growth Regulation and the Regional Development Responsibility Act, regions have the important responsibility to develop their regional development strategies. I hope that the action plan that the government is now going to develop will be in line with all these regional development strategies, so that we really take power from each other between the state and the regional level. The regional development strategy in my home country Uppsala County has been developed in a very good way. It has reconciled work on the Agenda 2030 strategy and the regional strategy. Precisely being able to work with the international perspectives of local and regional work, I really think is the future.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-844	Mr President, I would like to The Nordic countries are everyday and partying. The North is family and kinship. The Nordic countries are culture, feeling and identity. The Nordic countries are people and entrepreneurship. The North is joy and sorrow. Joy and sorrow. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, there is more grief and despair in border areas now during the pandemic than before. Working partnerships, exchanges and contacts have been tried hard and, in some cases, unable to cope with the pressures. Let's be honest. An important explanation is that the Nordic countries have handled the pandemic so differently, and in any case with completely different results where Sweden with its death rates in covid-19 stands out in a dark way. Unfortunately, when, in the beginning of the pandemic in spring 2020, there was criticism of slowness and lack of coordination among the Swedish government, the same arguments can now be put forward when it comes to opening up society as a positive consequence of more and more vaccinated people. At the time, it was a matter of lack of infection detection and carelessness around the death of elderly people's homes, and now it is a question of the lack of a plan for the new normal. Mr President, I would like to In addition to difficulties, open and closed borders have also created confusion. The Nordic countries have not coordinated their regulations and procedures. When it has been possible to travel in one direction without restrictions, there has been a stop in the other. There have been different interpretations of whether you are a day commuter or a weekly commuter and with or without an antibody test. In the border areas, the pressures are felt in a completely different way. Citizens have felt extradited and wrestled ts with great everyday difficulties. It has been particularly difficult for shops and traders in border areas who have previously lived on relatively free and unhindered mobility between countries that has favoured trade and services. For the individual citizen, lack of coordination has shone such as fire writing. Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, together with his Nordic government colleagues, has supported a shared vision that the Nordic region will become the world's most integrated region by 2030. After the pandemic, it is undeniably quite far from being realized. The feeling for the Nordic and our relationship has got a thorn. The fact that the Nordic countries have handled the ongoing pandemic differently raises important questions about our ability to meet global challenges together. After the crisis that has now hit our societies, there is reason to evaluate how cooperation in our neighbourhood works, how relations between our countries are affected and, above all, how we are to face together the economic and social consequences of covid-19. The Moderates believe that there is a great need for a Nordic Corona Commission that evaluates Nordic cooperation during the crisis. It is good that the Nordic Council of Ministers has given a special investigation mission to Finland's talented Jan-Erik Enestam. But we want to see a Nordic Commission in much the same way and in the same shape as the Swedish Corona Commission, which the government first opposed and finally had to accept. Mr President, I would like to Let us remind ourselves that the Nordic region is Sweden's home market. Our main import and export markets are partly here. The Nordic countries are thus our springboard into the world. This is precisely why it is so important to deepen cooperation on economics and innovation. The Nordic region is the world's twelfth largest economy and about the same size as the Russian economy. Norway is Sweden's largest export market – sometimes it is Germany – and twice the size of the People's Republic of China. Finland and Denmark are also very important trading partners. Conversely, there is an dependence on Sweden in the other Nordic countries. We're simply twisted together. Mr President, I would like to Good communications are important for growth and prosperity. This type of investment is also very long-term, so cooperation and coordination are a strength. From the Parliamentary Council of the Nordic Council – across party, block and national borders – a strong desire has been expressed for a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport, Transport and Infrastructure issues. As global competition increases, great demands are placed on our adaptability and Nordic cooperation with a clear focus on innovation and competitiveness. A well-functioning Nordic infrastructure based on free movement is of great importance for our growth, not least in the border regions. Consider my surprise, Mr President, when the Social Democrats, as in the Swedish delegation and in various bodies of the Nordic Council, loudly and firmly called for a Council of Ministers for Infrastructure, are now backing up. You have the chance to vote with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Left Party but will say no. We hear, and we see. The community of values and the strategic as well as historical ties that bring Sweden together with neighbouring countries in the Nordic and Baltic countries will be safeguarded. The cooperation between the eight Nordic-Baltic states, the so-called NB8, is an important foundation for Sweden's ability to form alliances with like-minded people and build a foundation for our engagement in the world, and it needs to be strengthened. Examples of issues that highlight the importance of stronger cooperation within the NB8 include the dangerous and worrying developments in Belarus, support for Ukraine during continued attacks from Russia and a critical review of the construction of the Belarus nuclear power plant at the Astravet border of Lithuania, as well as Nord Stream 2 where the Russian pipelines are in the Baltic Sea. The Moderates, with their sister party in the Nordic countries, have pushed for joint crisis preparedness. A report on corporate security was adopted by the Nordic Council here in Stockholm during the 2019 session. It was an important step. Nordic defence cooperation is a central platform for long-term security in the Nordic region. In July 2020, Björn Bjarnason from Iceland presented a follow-up to the so-called Stoltenberg report, focusing primarily on increased cooperation between the Nordic countries against hybrid threats and cyber attacks. It is important that the Nordic countries jointly implement as many of the proposals that the report proposes in practice in order to increase Nordic cooperation in these areas. Furthermore, the Nordic countries should act in solidarity when individual or several Nordic countries are exposed to cyber attacks. An important source of inspiration is the European diplomatic cyber toolkit that was presented in 2017 to increase cooperation, increase opportunities to limit cyber threats in the short and long term and provide opportunities to influence the behaviour of threatening actors. A corresponding Nordic diplomatic toolbox would mean solidarity. Mr President, I would like to The story of Norway, our sister parliament, and the Finnish Parliament have both been subjected to cyber attacks. The Moderates and our Nordic sister parties therefore believe that there is a need for a joint declaration of solidarity between the Nordic parliaments. When a Nordic parliament is attacked, it should be seen as an attack on everyone and thus on our democracy in the Nordic countries. When the Nordic and Baltic countries are mentioned, there is also reason to think in even broader terms: How can we deepen Nordic and Baltic cooperation with, for example, the UK or Poland and, most importantly, with Germany, which is a central economic partner of Sweden. Not least the latter is also of great importance for Swedish tourism and experience companies. The lack of clarity about how to travel in Europe and the conditions for entering different countries, including our own rules that we set up in Sweden, creates confusion and prevents important exchanges. Mr President, I would like to Our North is joy and sorrow. My hope is that after the pandemic we can see more joy and less sorrow. Furthermore, as chairman of the Swedish delegation, I would like to thank members from all parties for their great commitment and high level of activity in the Nordic Council, although most of the meetings have taken place via Zoom and Kudo. I would like to thank the responsible Minister. Although I am critical of the government's policy, I would like to pay great tribute to Anna Hallberg's commitment and her willingness to stand up and talk with both citizens and parliamentarians, and that is to be said in this House. As far as the Moderates are concerned, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservation 6 by the Moderates, the Center and the Left Party concerning a Council of Ministers for Infrastructure and Transport, reservation 12, also by the Moderates, the Center Party and the Left Party, concerning a Nordic Corona Commission and reservation 7 by the Moderates alone on the lack of Nordic cooperation under the covid-19 pandemic.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-865	Mr President, I would like to The North sees a light. There's hope. Sweden eased entry restrictions for our neighbouring countries on 31 May, and vaccination is actually progressing in the Nordic countries. The gates will be opened, the Nordic labour market will re-emerge and cultural exchange will be revived. It has been a year of suffering for the Nordic model in the sense of five countries – a family. Unlike the migration crisis in 2015, not only Sweden has gone its own way in relation to other Nordic countries and siblings, but during the pandemic, each and the whole family has locked themselves in their own chambers and worked on their own theory of how to respond to this crisis. The general error was non-existent coordination and communication at Prime Minister level from day one, when a comprehensive order for a comprehensive strategy could have been activated, even if during the journey it had certainly had to be corrected and adjusted according to local variations. One reason is a lack of trust, another lack of mechanisms and a third internal differences in political culture in relation to the mandates of the authorities in relation to those of elected governments. What these reasons have in common is that none of them lead to the vision of the world's most integrated region – on the contrary. In this connection, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation 8 in paragraph 3. Mr President, I would like to During the Parliamentary Session, we have taken many steps as a Swedish delegation in the Nordic Council, as individual parties and as Nordic party groups in parliamentary cooperation. We have taken steps to call for consultations between governments and minimise the consequences of border closures and patrolling soldiers between the brothers. On this I myself have also made longer speeches in the past, for example during the special debate earlier this spring in this House. Recently, I also signed a proposal from Nordic Freedom for a new form of formalised Prime Minister consultation and a crisis preparedness committee that will be prepared in the Nordic Council in the future. In today's debate, I want to raise my eyes and mention vital parts of Nordic collaboration that need to be strengthened or fully put in place at the time after the pandemic's claws. Let me point out the follow-up motion by the Swedish Democrats to the report. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report 4 Nordic cooperation there are a total of 30 requests from the general period of exercise and 40 requests in follow-up motions to the Government's letter. More than half of these claims have Swedish democrats as senders. I would therefore like to pay tribute to our group in the Swedish delegation for a determined effort to develop a reform battery that can actually pour new energy into the Nordic cooperation. For us Swedish democrats, Nordic cooperation is nothing but nice to know that you take care of with your left hand without a need to know, where we market radical reforms that would give the Nordic region a leap towards the world's most integrated region. Mr President, this is a formalised arrangement for new forms of Prime Minister consultation and a new form of crisis preparedness committee. But it is also a question of harmonising legislation on a scale that we are not close to today. Our decision-making bodies, not least the executive bodies in the form of governments, need to take the impression of the success story of business and cultural life when it comes to cooperation in reality. Let me quote Tobias Wikström in Today's industry earlier this week: If legislation is harmonised in the Nordic countries, it is the EU's credit, not that of governments. The first major decision that Nordic countries made at the beginning of the pandemic was to close the borders against each other. At the same time, Wikström notes that Scandinavian languages can be regarded as dialects and underlines the fact that we both literally and figuratively form family across borders. The editorial text also highlights the far-reaching political reforms of the 50's in the form of the passport union and the common labour market, but notes, in conclusion, gloomily, that making legislation compatible with neighbouring countries is not sufficiently important. And he takes on board: ..................................................... This, Mr President, is a signal of how weak trust is in the ability of representative democracy to pave the way not only in words but also in action for the world's most integrated and sustainable region. Nordic gold must not become sand. In order to be able to handle a Nordic region in crisis, we need to be better at cooperating in normal conditions. We therefore want the government to investigate the possibility of better coordinating the transposition of EU directives into the legislation of the Nordic countries, so that undesirable differences do not arise in advance. We believe that there are great benefits to the fact that new legislative proposals are complemented by an impact assessment of how they affect relations with the Nordic neighbours and how they hit people and companies living in or operating across borders in the Nordic countries. Mr President, I would like to A geopolitical tension field that is attracting increasing interest in more and more people, including China, is the Arctic. The environment in the Arctic is unique. Biodiversity is of particular importance in terms of nature, culture and animal life. The combination of long-term environmental thinking and the extraction of natural resources must be taken into account. There are many unique species in this area that are actually at risk of disappearing unless human activity in the area is taken into account. It is also important to identify cultural and natural remains of high levels of protection, so that they can be protected from harmful influences, and to take the impression of the Faroe Islands and other areas that have been able to concretely and firmly combine development and growth with care and defence of natural and cultural environments. Mr President, I would like to We move from one outpost in the geographical Nordic region to the other, namely the Baltic Sea region and the Baltic region. We from the Swedish Democrats are very positive about not least the Nordic-Baltic cooperation, especially at a time of unrest and instability in the Baltic Sea region. Cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic States is a cooperation that can be developed both at government and parliamentary level in all formal and informal formats that we know. But there are also great opportunities to establish more of a common cyber defence, which has been discussed. There is great potential to work together with the other Baltic states on efforts against wrecking, illegal export of marine archaeological heritage, etc. It is a well-known and growing problem as technology develops, which actually makes it easier to track and plunder untouched wrecks in the Baltic Sea. Mr President, I would like to In our follow-up motion to the Government's letter, we put forward 24 proposals for a more integrated, effective and robust Nordic cooperation. It is about promoting trade, innovation and the Nordic region as a destination. It is about increased Nordic cooperation within the framework of EU cooperation and a new close cooperation with the UK in the wake of Brexit. It is about strengthening Nordic language understanding and promoting a Nordic cultural cannon in Nordic schools, where the Nordic region in school is not enough. The education system is A and O to support an early Nordic relationship. It is about expanding and creating an understanding of the Nordic exchange, for the Nordic community and for sharing both the geographical environment and cultural proximity. We share the Baltic Sea, so not least it is also a question of developing common management systems and environmental standards for the fishing industry. After this overflight, Mr President, I would like to conclude that the matter of the Nordic countries is ours. Springtime for the North. I know you are and you become what you were, as we sing in the national anthem. Let it be a call for the Nordic region as the world's most integrated and sustainable region for real!
i-f69c2a2c13238947-886	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps the largest asset in the Nordic countries is the freedom of movement and the freedom of passport. In recent years we have seen how it has been repeatedly challenged. It was not even six months since the Nordic prime ministers adopted the new vision that the Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030 until the pandemic broke out and put it all on track. After almost a year and a half of pandemic and closed borders, entry restrictions, quarantine requirements and negative covidtest, where each country has preferred to join its own country and fight the Corona virus on its own, the vision of the Nordic region as the most integrated region in the world appears to be remote but binding. Let me mention an example of how tricky it has been for our citizens and our border commuters to keep up with the restrictions. During the first 54 weeks of the pandemic, Norway changed the restrictions 48 times with major consequences. In the direction that Nordic cooperation now faces, we can choose either to let it fall asleep or take hold of it and deepen and develop the cooperation. The Center Party is strongly in favour of deepening and developing Nordic cooperation as well as Swedish involvement in the Barents Council and the Arctic Council. The pandemic and crisis that we are now going through have exposed major shortcomings in the ability of the Nordic countries to cooperate effectively in the event of serious incidents. For the future, there is a strong need to revitalise and develop Nordic cooperation. The closure of borders between our countries in recent years is a sign of weakness and must be avoided in the future. Unfortunately, we have also seen that new border barriers and disruptions to free movement have arisen during the pandemic. It is therefore very urgent and gratifying that the Nordic Council of Ministers has now adopted our proposal to make an analysis of governments' pandemic management and to learn lessons for the future from the experience gained. We would have preferred to see a Nordic Corona Commission, but the most important thing is that we learn lessons from the shortcomings of the pandemic response. The transparency can hopefully lead governments, when Nordic cooperation meets the next crisis that affects us, to act in a more common and coordinated way, which does not put thousands of border commuters in the frenzy. With or without an examination of the Nordic governments' pandemic management, the Center Party believes that it is clear that the need for increased cooperation in the area of crisis preparedness remains. Mr President, I would like to We have strong popular support to build Nordic cooperation stronger, deeper and wider. In order for the Nordic region to be stronger as a region and to increase the competitiveness of the Nordic countries, Nordic integration must continue. What our Nordic citizens want is to be able to move freely, without border controls, and work throughout the Nordic region. We want to be able to study and get our degrees approved and pay taxes and get access to healthcare and pension in a sensible way if we move within the Nordic region. We also want Nordic cooperation in defence and security issues. The citizens of the Nordic countries are therefore not asking for seven new miracles or miracles. Let us therefore try to focus on making what is closest to the hearts of our citizens work. A prerequisite for people, goods, services and capital to move freely across borders is physical and digital infrastructure, such as roads, railways and broadband. Imagine what mobility benefits we could achieve if the transport network developed more from a Nordic perspective! Today, planning is very much, not to say exclusively, a national matter. The Center Party wants to see a stronger Nordic dimension of physical and digital infrastructure. One step towards such stronger Nordic planning would be the establishment of a permanent Council of Ministers for Transport. The Nordic Council has repeatedly pointed out the need for a Council of Ministers on Transport. The Center Party regrets that the government has not heeded this. It is certainly a good thing that a temporary Council of Ministers on digitisation issues has been set up. Today, unfortunately, many important issues for the Nordic countries in this area are being ignored in the cooperation of governments. Mr President, I would like to The effects of climate change in the Arctic on both humans and animals are clear. More needs to be done to protect the most sensitive areas around the Arctic. This calls for increased cooperation and responsibility from the countries concerned. For example, the Center Party wants marine reserves to be established to protect the area from exploitation through oil, gas and mineral extraction and sea fishing and to protect its inhabitants, and the Center Party wants the government to pursue this. The northern regions are important not only from the climate point of view, but also are becoming increasingly important in the security policy perspective. Russia is affecting our northern neighbourhood as they arm the Arctic and Barents. This is a challenge for us and our Nordic neighbours. It is important to try to maintain the Arctic as a low-voltage area. Finally, Mr President, in order for Nordic cooperation to be strengthened in the future, it is of great importance that exchanges and cooperation between young people and youth organisations are acknowledged. In recent years, we have noted how support from the Nordic Committee for Children and Youth, Nordbuk, has come to focus more on shorter projects. This is problematic because working partnerships often require continuity and long-termness. Therefore, the government should promote a review leading to increased long-term sustainability in this area. I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report, but I only ask for reservation 3 in paragraph 1.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-899	Mr President, I would like to It has been a privilege to be part of the Nordic Council. We have had a very good cooperation on many issues. Nordic cooperation has great opportunities to develop. We can solve common problems or share solutions. We could also pursue several issues in an international context. The Nordic Council and the Nordic cooperation have great potential in finding climate solutions and solving energy issues, as well as social and legal issues. As part of Nordic cooperation, we have the opportunity to take the lead on a number of issues that are common and lead the way for, among other things, the EU. But for such cooperation to work and be credible, joint decisions and concrete actions are needed. Border barriers issues are a priority in Nordic cooperation. The idea is that we will become the most cohesive region in the world – it is often said that we already are. It should be easy to move between countries, and we should be able to move from one Nordic country to another without administrative obstacles. Unfortunately, the Nordic region has not proved to be as tight-knit as we might have thought. It is the Corona crisis that has shown this, just as it has shown other problems we have at national level. The successes that have been achieved in border barriers issues were blown away. Borders were closed without in-depth talks between countries, nor has the opening of borders taken place after talks. To some extent this is understandable because the different countries have not had the same level of preparedness for a crisis. This is something we may need to discuss further so that we can face crises in the future. Here in Sweden, for example, we can start by strengthening welfare. Mr President, I would like to In order to move forward, the report has two reservations about the work on the Corona crisis. The first is about pursuing the goal of the Nordic region being an open region, where we can live and work in different countries and commute. In order to ensure this in crisis, we need to further develop the tax system so that people are not double-taxed, as happened now during the Corona crisis. We also need systematic work on border commutes, in order to safeguard jobs and family life when faced with crises that require some form of border management. The second reservation is about creating a Corona Commission. There is every reason to review and evaluate our cooperation in the light of how countries have jointly dealt with common challenges and problems in the wake of the coronapndemine. The fact that the Nordic countries have handled the ongoing pandemic differently raises important questions about our ability to meet the global challenges together. After the crisis that has now hit our societies, there is reason to evaluate how cooperation in our neighbourhood works, how relations between our countries are affected and, above all, how we are to face together the economic and social consequences of covid-19. The socio-economic and health-related consequences of Corona are major challenges for the entire Nordic region, but especially for border regions. In order to avoid shortcomings in future cooperation, we believe that a Nordic Corona Commission should be set up, with the task of evaluating the Nordic countries' actions and developing a strategy to increase cooperation. Of course, we share the view that the Nordic region should be an integrated region, but this must also mean something in practice. Today, many of the passport union's ambitions are being reversed at a time when nationalist forces are taking their place in politics. It is therefore particularly important that the government works to keep the borders between the Nordic countries open without border controls for Nordic citizens. I know our government has been working on this. It is not easy to get it together when the countries disagree. Mr President, I would like to Nordic cooperation will lead to a positive development also outside the Nordic region. We can lead the way in a series of questions. An important area is LGBTQ. Here we believe that through the Nordic Council we can influence neighbouring countries such as the Baltic States. Today there are joint conferences on human trafficking, environmental issues, energy issues and more. It would be good if this exchange between the Nordic and Baltic states also covered LGBT issues. It would be a great support for LGBTQ and for the feminist movements there. That is why I choose to apply for reservation 4. Finally, I would like to highlight recommendations that we from the Nordic Green Left have addressed in the Nordic Council in 2020. Night train in the Nordic countries is a proposal from the Nordic Green Left which is now a recommendation to the Nordic governments. In fact, the Nordic Council has further developed our idea there. We urgently need to change our societies in order to prevent uncontrollable climate change. Emissions from transport account for about one third of our climate emissions. In the Nordic transport sector, there is an offensive approach to sustainable alternatives to air transport, such as trains. Today, the supply of trains across the Nordic countries is not competitive with air routes. Instead, there has been a deterioration in the supply of night trains. Previously there was a link from Oslo to Copenhagen and on to Germany, but this no longer exists. Here we want to see investments in expanded railway capacity to facilitate rail travel. Such investments take time and require planning. That is why, of course, we would have to introduce a Council of Ministers for Transport. It would be strategically important and even necessary, I believe, for us to be able to carry out such work together. In this way, trains could also be the first choice on all trips during holidays within and outside the Nordic region. With night trains to several locations, the train can become the natural way to travel to Paris, London, Milan and Barcelona. We have also put forward proposals on tax evasion, combating labour market crime in construction companies operating in the Nordic countries, corporate responsibility in terms of human rights and countries' right to natural resources. We also want the Nordic governments to distance themselves from the global gag rule, a rule that Trump introduced to stop financial support for international organisations working on the right to abortion. It is an important marker for upholding and strengthening women's rights. Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 4.
i-FHP53Fq1wjkt88SPG4DMU6	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Foreign Affairs' report No 4, Nordic cooperation, is the subject of this debate. What cooperation? I would like to start with that question, given the appearance of the last year. On 15 June 2020, I also had the honour of representing the Christian Democrats in the Nordic debate, that is, a year ago. Even then we were critical of the state of things and could not in our wildest imagination realize what this year would bring in the form of restrictions and rules. There has been arbitrary handling, one does not know how the other acts, the police act differently – it has been hopeless to relate to. Furthermore, for obvious reasons, the Nordic Council has not been able to meet in a situation where we really should have met. I myself have asked our own Minister for the Nordic Countries and Nordic Ministers through the Nordic Council of Ministers only to force them to talk about an answer. I have also sent questions to the Norwegian Government on several points. Clearly, you don't want to see the problem. You're closest to yourself. The Nordic idea is blown away. In addition, the experience is that we have had a very absent Prime Minister on these issues. As we heard earlier in the debate, Minister Hallberg has really been on her toes and absolutely done as well as she has been able to. There's no shadow over her. But it would have been nice if the Prime Minister had actually shown himself more often, if only to instill power in those who are affected by all these restrictions and rules. Mr President, I would like to A quote from the report is that, despite problems for border commuters with uncertainties about the rules of the country of employment or residence, the Nordic countries have come up with solutions. Among other things, the most important work commuting across national borders has been able to continue. I'm not so sure everyone agrees with that. Earlier this spring I spoke with Stefan from my own municipality Årjäng. He hadn't been home since Monday Christmas. And Tomas, who lives in Karlstad, has not seen his children since January. The simple reason is that if they go home, they can't go back to Norway to work again. They're weekly commuters. Here is the choice between watching the children and putting food on the table for the children. Of course, they choose to put food on the table for their own children. Much has been done, but when it comes to our weekly commuters and our entrepreneurs working in Norway, it feels as if it has not been done enough. At least nothing's happened. They are still either trapped in Sweden and are not allowed to go to work or locked up in Norway and are not allowed to go back to Sweden. When we had the big debate here after Norway closed the border completely, the Social Democrats even had to pull Stefan Löfven out of the game. He had to be pulled out by his own. Even within the sosseleden there was great frustration about how the Prime Minister acted. Furthermore, the report states that the Nordic countries must have a dialogue before decisions are taken on border closure and that the countries must also find out all other options before borders are closed. The Nordic countries should jointly take responsibility for the consequences of border closure, which is what Sweden has proposed in the so-called "border closure". the model of collaboration; ..................................................... First of all, we're not going to close any borders. Here again it is shown that you do not understand. You don't understand what it's like to live and work in a border region. Let me say as a neighbour to me: It feels as if we border dwellers are the ones to take the punishment for others not doing well. That has certainly been the case over the past year, Mr President. Secondly, it is the border regions that must always be heard, because that is where the damage takes place. That's where the desk product blooms into reality. Let me give a final quote from the report, Mr President: a network of personal contacts across the Nordic borders is the origin of the Nordic Community. Cooperation takes as its starting point a common history, culture and values. The committee considers it important that those who live and work in the Nordic countries should be able to move freely between the Nordic countries. Yes, it's not just urgent-- it's necessary. The injuries and wounds caused by the restrictions will take an enormous amount of time to heal. Unfortunately, we know that we will experience more pandemics and other crises in the future. There'll be more pandemics. Due to the major concerns of the closed borders, both physical and mental, the Swedish Government should urgently take the initiative that we in the Nordic countries develop a common strategy for how we should act together in the coming pandemics and crises, so that the borders are never closed again in similar situations. In view of this, Mr President, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' Amendment No 11 in paragraph 3. Furthermore, Sweden must also join the ranks and stand and be ashamed of its neighbours. Not least, we have seen that Ålanders and Bornholmsbor have suffered from the fact that we have not behaved but driven a soloace. There must be an end to solo activity, and we must have a real dialogue between the Nordic countries. We must ensure that we have a good dialogue with the Finnish Government on the Åland problem and how Åland has been dealt with in this. At the end of June, it is time for the Nordic Council's thematic session. Unfortunately, it is, and of course, digital. One theme to be addressed is cybersecurity, and cooperation on defence and security policy challenges is a key feature of Nordic cooperation. However, I would also like to raise another point, which many have raised in the past, namely infrastructure. As we can read in the report, there have been discussions on the need for a Council of Ministers for Transport and Infrastructure. The Nordic Council has recommended that the Nordic Council of Ministers establish such a Council. Unfortunately, Sweden is one of the countries that oppose this, despite unanimous advice. The Socialist Group also wholeheartedly supported this. In the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council we have had a meeting with the Minister for Infrastructure. He says, somewhat simplistic: that's not necessary. We have a good cooperation anyway. If it is something we have learned during the pandemic, it is that good cooperation can be completely broken and that it can go as quickly as possible. The infrastructure between our countries needs to be upgraded in many places. This would therefore be an excellent way to link the countries even closer together, which is really needed now on several levels. Even if Eneroth thinks it works well now, it is no guarantee that it will do so in five years' time or in ten years' time. As the report states, a cross-border transport infrastructure is of great importance both for growth and for accessibility in our respective countries. A well-functioning infrastructure between the Nordic countries makes it attractive to live and work across national borders and makes it possible to travel and transport goods between countries in a more sustainable way and further into Europe. I note, Mr President, that we do not agree with the reservation that exists. We have to put this on the account of miscommunication, because the Christian Democrats are absolutely behind this. We want this Council of Ministers. The Border Barriers Group and the Border Barriers Council have certainly had to deal with the pandemic, as governments have not always wanted to do so. The status of these groups should be increased, and governments should listen to them more. The said groups and the Nordic governments have received monthly reports on border barriers that have arisen during the pandemic. Unfortunately, it seems that these reports are not used by governments to actually solve people's everyday concerns. Are they stuck on the road somewhere, or is it too hard to get to grips with the questions? During the special debate on barriers earlier this spring, I used a large part of my speaking time precisely to frame concerns that have arisen with the restrictions. I would like to mention here, Mr President, one of the strange things that still remains. As I mentioned earlier, weekly commuters or self-employed people are trapped in Norway. If they go home, they can't go back. Many of these have now been given time for vaccination, but they cannot go home and take the syringe, because then they must not go back to Norway for work again. Is it a virus or is it people that we are fighting with these restrictions? Finally, Mr President, I would like to lay the bar where it should be. I note after Sweden fell into the ice hockey World Cup with some joy that Norway also missed the playoffs. I also note with pleasure that Sweden scored more points than Norway in the base game.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-941	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Nordic cooperation is important. It is one of the oldest and most extensive regional cooperation in the world. This has been due to the fact that we all have a high level of trust in society but also thanks to the strong traditions of democracy and peoples' movement in the Nordic countries. I am absolutely sure that this has been said more than once over the years in this House, because whatever Nordic country we are talking about, it is characterised by deep respect for democracy, the rule of law, equality and human rights. It is precisely the shared values that help to strengthen the Nordic region's position as one of the world's most innovative and competitive regions. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic region is seen as a role model in the field of environment and climate. The countries' shared vision for 2030 states that the Nordic region will be the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030. In autumn 2020, the Action Plan governing the implementation and implementation of the achievement of that objective was adopted from this year until 2024. Jointly, a competitive Nordic region is prioritised with a focus on promoting green growth, based on innovation, mobility and digital integration. Another important thing is that the cross-border infrastructure between the Nordic countries should make it attractive to live and work across national borders and make it possible to travel and transport goods between countries in an even more sustainable way, but also further out into the world. Mr President, I would like to The border problem exists, but we also have many fine long-standing collaborations that have worked well also during the pandemic. For example, we have the Nordic Defence and Security Policy cooperation Nordic Defence Cooperation, or Nordefco, as it is called. It continued to develop further in 2020, precisely in line with the strategic vision for 2025. I myself come from Eksjö. There we have Göta Engineering Regiment, Ing 2, which is so far Sweden's only engineering regiment. Through talks with the head of Ing 2, Michael Ginér, and his staff over the years, I have been confirmed that this cooperation works very well. Mr President, I would like to We have collaborations on combating discrimination and on Nordic implementation of EU directives. But we also have cooperation for young people in the form of Nordbuk, the Nordic Committee for Children and Youth, which during the year has continued to implement the cross-sectoral strategy for children and young people in the Nordic region. The goal is for the Nordic region to be the best place for children and young people to grow up in. We have had collaborations in art and culture, which have been going on during the year. There has been cooperation within the Arctic Council and the Barents Council, which has also been ongoing. The Nordic cooperation has not stood still or disappeared. That, Mr President, makes me both proud and happy, because it shows that the cooperation we have been working on for many years has actually worked reasonably well in times of crisis. But that does not mean that we do not have to work even harder and deepen our relations further. We should not forget, Mr President, that this coronapandemia has not only been devastating to individuals and individuals. Of course, it has also tried Nordic cooperation hard. Although the Nordic contacts have actually been frequent during the crisis at ministerial, ministerial, government and parliamentary levels, where the pandemic and the importance of a green recovery have been discussed, trust has gained a lot. This has not least been the case, as we have now heard, in the border regions and for those who commute between countries. The mood has been really hateful in several places. And the lack of clarity in the rules and restrictions of our various countries has made things difficult in many municipalities. However, a large number of border barriers have been removed, and the situation of border commutes was finally resolved decently, even if it took longer than was desirable. Madam President, I would like In practice, it is also the Nordic Ministers for Cooperation who are responsible for the coordination of Nordic government cooperation. From the beginning of the crisis Sweden has pointed out the need to clarify their responsibilities and the importance of exploring all other options before taking a decision on border closure and also that countries need to jointly take responsibility for the consequences. As has been said before, this is part of the proposal for a collaboration model that Sweden has actually presented and which deals with how the Nordic countries can cooperate in the future, in the face of future crises, with, among other things, border barriers issues. As a region, we must be better prepared the next time a crisis strikes us, and so the Ministers for Cooperation have also decided to jointly conduct a strategic study on Nordic cooperation during times of crisis. The intention is to take advantage of the lessons learned during the pandemic and at the same time strengthen regional cooperation during times of crisis. Another impending crisis, Madam President, which we must jointly prevent, is the environmental and climate threat. Therefore, it is of course also of the utmost importance that we develop and deepen our cooperation on the major and difficult challenges we face. If we are to have any chance of fulfilling our 2030 vision, we need to take on that forcefully together. Madam President, I would like We have recently decided in this House on a strategy for the Arctic. The Arctic is an important part of our Nordic cooperation and our political exchange. A currently updated Arctic strategy with a broad approach including security policy and economic development as well as ensuring good living conditions and climate and environment is highly welcome. Sweden is an Arctic country, and of course we have a special interest and responsibility in promoting peaceful, stable and sustainable development. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would therefore like to say: Yes – the last year has put a great strain on our fine Nordic cooperation. But this must also make us even more determined to overcome the great difficulties together and to stand together for the next crisis. It'll come whether we like it or not. Then it is good to now go through the roblematics that have occurred during the year and review how together we can overcome problems for cross-border commuters by synchronising our regulations in a better way. We can do this by keeping the dialogue open and talking to each other all the time before action is put in place and really tackling the difficult challenges we have jointly before us. If we can do this together, we are well on our way to meeting our 2030 vision. Madam President, I would like I would like to add my voice to Mr Hans Wallmark's tribute to Minister Anna Hallberg, who is doing an excellent job.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-960	Madam President, I would like Diana Laitinen Carlsson notes that I commended the Minister for Foreign Trade and the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, quite rightly. However, I would like to emphasise for the record, once again: I am very critical of the government's actions. There you can say that the Government is part of the collective. As a person and as a committed minister – no shadow. Over the government – a heavy shadow. That is why I also felt that it was a little light on border commuters. Now I saw that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, my good friend the Christian Democrat from Värmland, has signed up for the debate. I guess he'll specifically mention the frivolous talk about the border commute, so I'll leave it to him. I will raise another question. From the minutes of the Nordic Council delegation on 17 March: One reason why the Minister for Infrastructure was invited to the meeting was to discuss the issue of the creation of a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport, an issue which has broad support in the Nordic Council and which has been raised on several occasions. The Government stressed the good cooperation between the Nordic Infrastructure Ministers and emphasised that the cooperation has intensified during the pandemic in order to deal with rapidly raised issues. Cooperation today has the form of informal as well as formal meetings and, according to Eneroth, would risk being hampered by further formalisation. The majority of the members of the delegation referred to the broad political consensus on the issue of establishing a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport and pointed out the benefits of formalising cooperation. One aspect that was highlighted was that the cooperation format as it stands today is individual-dependent and that it may change when ministers are replaced. Several members also referred to the many Nordic infrastructure projects reported by the Government and felt that these would benefit from being continuously lifted within the framework of a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport. Madam President, I would like My question to the Social Democrats is: why do you say one thing in the Nordic Council and in the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council and another in this House?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-964	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark says that we do not feel the same way in the various councils. It could be a truth with modification. Personally, I am in favour of structure, order and order of all fronts. On the other hand, we have received the information that not all countries are ready for this and that not all countries want it here. Forced cooperation may not be the best either, I think. We have been given indications that informal cooperation is working very well, but I think it is good that the issue is being discussed in the Nordic Council. I think that is where the issue should be pursued jointly, all the countries between.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-967	Madam President, I would like Can anyone explain to me what a change is in the Nordic Council and in other contexts, including the delegation, that we want to see a Council of Ministers for Infrastructure and Transport, and then when we vote on this in this House we argue against it? Diana Laitinen Carlsson just requested that all reservations be rejected. It is not modification; it is coming up with completely different opinions. The point is that it is really only a country that is designated as an obstacle and responsible for stopping a Nordic Council of Ministers for Infrastructure and Transport. That country is Sweden. It is therefore the Swedish Government that is preventing it, and by chance the Social Democrats are also sitting there. I would say that either one maintains the view expressed in this House – and that Diana Laitinen Carlsson has just expressed by calling for the rejection of a reservation by the Moderates, the Center Party and the Left Party – and stands for it, or one pursues the view pursued in other contexts. If it is Sweden that is the stop-claw, the Social Democrats now have the opportunity to overturn that stone out of the way. Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, this excellent representative of Värmland, just pointed out that a mistake had been made within his party regarding why they do not agree with this reservation from the Moderates, Center Party and Left Party. I believe that the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals also have the opportunity to consider tomorrow's vote whether it is possible to coordinate their views between what they think in the Swedish Parliament and how they vote in the Chamber and what they say in the Nordic Council in its various bodies. Should it also be the case that both KD, SD and L join this line, the Swedish Parliament will say that they are in favour of a Council of Ministers for Infrastructure.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-973	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I understood any question during the last discussion. However, Mrs Wallmark said that it was Sweden that was a block in this work. I have indications that this is not just what it looks like. Mr Wallmark has his firm opinion, Madam President, and he is entitled to do so. Since I didn't hear any more questions, I'm staying there.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-975	Madam President, I would like When I heard Diana Laitinen Carlsson's speech, which was very defensive and played down the problems that we in the border regions have been suffering from throughout the pandemic outbreak, thought of Bagdad-Bob-Bob. It is incredibly provocative to hear such reductions when we know that parents and children have been separated for months, when we have not been able to have normal relations in my home country Tornedalen, along the Swedish-Norwegian border or Denmark. There are relatives who have not been able to visit death-sick relatives because of entry restrictions between the different countries. To then hear that basically everything is peace and joy—we heard a little more self-criticism at the end—is amazing, and I find it deeply provocative. I would like to ask Diana Laitinen Carlsson a question about the Council of Ministers for Transport. I can't get the equation together, and I really want to ask Diana Laitinen Carlsson to tell me how it works. What is the line? Is that what our colleagues in the Nordic Council are saying, where a completely united Nordic Council has been pushing this issue throughout the years, or is it the retreat that the Social Democrats are doing in this House today? Which line do you choose? I heard Diana Laitinen Carlsson speak about the need for sustainable transport. I wonder how we can strengthen mobility. How should we strengthen free movement in the Nordic countries? How do we strengthen connectivity between citizens in order to work, study and so on if we only live in our national drainpipes and do not create a stronger Nordic dimension to the issues? What other measures do you intend to take by the Social Democrats if they are not prepared today to back up, but rather fail the united line? Are we to understand that the position that has been held in the Nordic Council has been dropped and that it is now a new line that applies? I hope Diana Laitinen Carlsson has answers that make the equation go together.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-979	Madam President, I would like It was by no means intended to appear condescending or over-extend the problems in the border regions. I know it has been extremely difficult and terribly difficult for many individuals. The role of the opposition is to highlight all shortcomings. From my side, of course, I would also like to highlight what is positive, the cooperation that actually works. Not everything is destroyed, as you often get the impression of n is you hear the opposition speaking. Therefore, it is important to focus on the things that actually work. I understand that it may have been perceived as provocative, but that was not my intention. If so, I apologize. You asked us how to strengthen mobilization, Linda Modig. For me, it is one thing that applies, namely dialogue, dialogue, dialogue – and cooperation. If not everyone is on the track and wants a Transport Council, I find it difficult to say that one should force it out. If you claim that informal cooperation is working well right now, then maybe it can do so right now. However, this does not mean that the work is not going on, but that it is still being worked on these parts.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-983	Madam President, I would like I thank Diana Laitinen Carlsson for the answer and the apology. Why do we need a Council of Ministers for Transport? It is precisely about strengthening the Nordic dimension in transport planning. Today, we are prisoners in our national systems. In her main speech, Diana Laitinen Carlsson highlighted Nordefco as an excellent example of Nordic cooperation. What if we could have one too for emergency preparedness? Just as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson pointed out, the lack of temporary informal cooperation is that it becomes incredibly vulnerable and dependent. If we are serious about the many projects that exist with concrete cross-border infrastructure planning, it certainly cannot be detrimental, rather on the contrary, to promote formalised cooperation on infrastructure issues. That's how important they are. If we go to studies on the Nordic people's attitude to Nordic cooperation, we know that it is about the everyday issues, the ability to move across borders, work and study. It requires transport that runs seamlessly between our countries. This is why the Nordic dimension in transport planning is so important. I do not think that we are trying to impose a Council on anyone, but we are trying to convince the two blocking countries of Sweden and Finland to see the merits and opportunities. This is done when it comes to digitalisation, but, as we all know, the modes of transport are much wider than just digitalisation. We must include the railways, the road projects and so on. That is why the Council is so important, and that is why I would like to call on Diana Laitinen Carlsson to state what the Social Democratic retreat stands for. Do you see other ways or measures that you are prepared to take to convince Eneroth, or have you backed up and feel that they are no longer needed?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-988	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the questions are something that Linda Modig is passionate about. It is good that the Nordic Council is pushing the issue of the Council of Ministers for Transport. It is good if one can influence the creation of a Transport Council by a unanimous Council of Ministers. At present, it is not the case that we are pressing on the committee's side, but it is good that the Nordic Council is pushing the issue.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-990	Madam President, I would like When I listened to Diana Laitinen Carlsson's speech, I found it hard to hear that rhetoric and politics seem, to say the least, to be out of step. Let me take note of a statement that the border barriers were finally resolved decently. But why did they originate from the beginning? It is often where we never go beyond the idea of the problem before us, namely that between our countries and regions we need to coordinate, coordinate and scan how legislation, changes in regulations, government directives and other things risk hitting in relation to our Nordic neighbours, border commuters and those who move across borders. For many years it has been heard in the rhetoric of the Social Democrats that more needs to be done to solve the problems of border barriers pro-actively. But real policy always starts from the model of solving the problems of border barriers retroactively through the Border Barriers Council and other mechanisms. Why does one consistently say no, Diana Laitinen Carlsson, to, for example, the Swedish Democrats' proposal to establish a legislative council, scan Nordic legislation proactively, look at impact assessments of how it risks affecting our neighbours and neighbouring peoples and so on? This report does so annually. If so, what do you want? There is clear talk of synchronising regulations. What does that mean for us today?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-993	Madam President, I would like I have been a Member of Parliament on the Foreign Affairs Committee since October 2020, so I cannot respond to what proposal Aron Emilsson refers to that keeps coming back. That's where I'll owe the answer today. The pandemic came as a complete surprise to the whole world. It is only now with the pandemic in 2020 that the problems have arisen – especially to the extent that they have arisen. Everyone was taken on the bed in all countries. It has been clear that our regulations do not look the same. Madam President, I would like I know that the Swedish side has worked intensively to try to solve the problems with the obstacles in the best way possible.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-996	Madam President, I would like That is precisely the main problem, as Diana Laitinen Carlsson himself points out, namely that one was caught on the bed. This shows that the recent major strong political initiatives and reforms to truly integrate the Nordic countries were made in the 1950s through the passport union and the common labour market. Nevertheless, I assume that Diana Laitinen Carlsson represents the Social Democrats in the committee. Then she must have prepared this report and have an idea of what it is you want instead when, in the course of the committee discussion, you reject at least 24 proposals for measures aimed at strengthening and deepening Nordic cooperation in a more robust, effective and effective manner. When you reject all reservations, you'll owe the answer to what you want instead. It refers to the fact that the Nordic countries were taken on the bed and say no to proposals to coordinate much of what the Social Democracy otherwise speaks up for. I am thinking of proposals we have on the table today, such as working closer and deeper with the Baltic States on cyber defence to counter misinformation and warfare against democracy, so to speak. It rejects proposals to coordinate environmental standards for the fishing industry and sustainable environmental policies in the Baltic Sea that we are presenting. My simple question, however, is, although one needs to go into those proposals, what is the response of the Social Democrats to the same kind of problems and challenges that one highlights in the debate itself.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1001	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden and the Nordic countries have been spared from wars and disasters for a very long time. We have built a robust collaboration for many years. Much of the proposals that the honourable Member mentions here are already being worked on. The study initiated by the Council of Ministers also means that it will work wider and deeper and strengthen cooperation in a much better way. Or much better– I think we have a good cooperation, but as I said, it has got a thorn. It should be deepened, and one should jointly look at how to solve the problem for the future.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1004	Madam President, I would like Like the previous replicator, I reacted to Diana Laitinen Carlsson's speech, where it sounded like the cooperation has worked well. I note that she then moderated it somewhat. You get excluded from work, locked out. There is no pay or compensation and you have to live in financial uncertainty for a long time. You can't see family and friends. You can't face your own kids. You get bullied at work because you are Swedish, forced to wear orange vest at work to mark that you are Swedish, may not eat with your colleagues because you are Swedish. You have to take long detours to work because many border crossings are closed. A Swedish family that has to drive through Norway for a few hundred meters to get to their home in Sweden has got 80 km to the mailbox and garbage can. The police and the military are along the border and also act very arbitrarily. But we note that then there were resources also for rural areas. People who go to work are asked, "Is there no Norwegian who can take your job so that we don't have to let you cross the border?" Last day I had a conversation with a man whose father-in-law is dying. His wife, the daughter of the one who is dying, must not come over. People are being monitored. The Norwegian control centre is ringing at very strange times to make sure that they are really doing their free time. The list could be made even further, Madam President. How can the honourable Member sound so pleased and say that cooperation has worked well?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1015	Madam President, I would like I am not satisfied, I would like to make it clear to Mr Ottosson. But as I said, I feel that it is my job to highlight the positive too. Just highlighting what is negative is not fair, because there has been a lot of cross-border cooperation that has actually worked. But what has taken place in the border regions is not acceptable. These are terrible situations that have occurred, I am fully aware of that, and I think it has gained a lot of focus. It is clear that it is a problem that needs to be resolved. Many problems of border barriers have also been largely resolved. In fact, in my speech, I changed to a fair amount, precisely because Mr Ottosson told me about the problems that remain. I had been led to believe that most of the problems for commuters were solved. In that case, it's a mistake of me. With regard to the situation that has existed, it is clear that I might not have entered a country either during the time when it was at its worst. The atmosphere has been bitter, and that is unacceptable. Cooperation has worked well at ministerial level, I know, but what has arisen among the population and with employers is not acceptable.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1019	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Mrs Laitinen Carlsson says that this is not acceptable. The honourable Member is talking about not going to another country. For those of us who live there, it is not another country. For those of us who live there, there is no border – or rather there was no border until March 2020. Then came the border, and it came with news. The honourable Member says that there has been a great deal of focus on these issues. Yes, it has been, in large part, and as I mentioned in my speech, Minister Anna Hallberg has really worked on this. However, the Member's own Prime Minister and the Member's own Foreign Minister have glittered in these matters with their absence. As I mentioned in the special debate we had on the Nordic region: we have a Minister for the Nordic Region, who has done a good job. But a Nordic minister is not so high in the hierarchy. It is the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister who must get on the track. Why have they glittered with their absence in these matters? Why was it necessary to pull Stefan Löfven out in order for him to act on the issue of work commuters who were not allowed to cross the border, who were not even paid or paid? Yeah, that's been the focus. But it has not been the focus of Sweden's top management in the form of Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs. Why hasn't it been?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1024	Madam President, I would like It may not be my job to answer that, but we have the order that the Prime Minister has delegated the responsibility for foreign affairs to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and the responsibility for Nordic cooperation to the Minister for Nordic Affairs Anna Hallberg. It is therefore Anna Hallberg who is responsible for these issues.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1025	Madam President, I would like There have been quite strong speeches in this debate, with descriptions of the enormous difficulties and hardships experienced, not least by the inhabitants along the border between Sweden and Norway and up in the Torne Valley, on the border with Finland. These debates about Sweden's role in the Nordic Council are held every year and sometimes they are rather sleepy stories, if I may put it that way – I hope no one takes it personally. However, we are now in a unique position, where we have not been before, with the covidpandemine. The cooperation in the Nordic countries, of which we are so proud, is one of the oldest regional collaborations in the world and also one of the strongest. It has really been focused on facilitating people's everyday lives, and often very down-to-earth and concrete issues have been resolved in dialogue in a very good way. We have seen in the last year that this is creaky now. In all the speeches in this debate, the speaker has pointed this out, and there are also wordings in the committee's report that Nordic cooperation has got a good deal of work done. This is not really to blame the parliamentarians in the different Nordic countries who are themselves involved in Nordic issues, but because the Nordic countries chose different ways to deal with the pandemic. I think that this makes it important that we in Sweden have a degree of humility in view of the fact that it is not unreasonable for a country such as Norway, Denmark or Finland to impose restrictions that may affect our citizens if they choose another way to stop the spread of infection in their country. It is a consequence of their choosing a different path from what Sweden has done. However, this has caused very serious problems with travel restrictions to prevent the spread of infection, closed borders, quarantine regulations and so on. On top of everything, of course, we have the death toll. In Sweden there are currently 14 451 people who have lost their lives in the pandemic, which is of course an awfully high figure. This has put an enormous strain on health care in all the Nordic countries, but especially here, given that we have had such high levels of infection. It also displaces ordinary health care and other efforts that need to be made, which can impair the health of others. Violence against women has increased during the pandemic, as many have been more at home, where violence against women is often carried out. Visitor industries, tourism, border trade and so on – the list can be made very long. Trust between the Nordic countries has really got a thorn, and there is a great risk that this can also affect cooperation in the long term. At the same time, Madam President, we have a great deal in common in the Nordic countries. We'll work hard to get out of the pandemic. More and more people are being vaccinated. Unfortunately, I myself have not been allowed to do so – it applies to those in Stockholm who were born in 1976 or before. I happen to be born a year too late; I have to wait a little longer. Many, however, have been vaccinated, and soon I will be hugging my own mother again for the first time in almost a year and a half. We have a lot in common in the Nordic countries, such as our democracy, our parliamentarism, common culture and common traditions. This is something on which we must build. The Nordic countries are by far the largest export market in Sweden. They are now deepening this cooperation in different ways, which of course is very important for greater integration and so on. When we get out of this pandemic, the Nordic countries will still be able to regain lost ground in this cooperation. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention one more subject that I think is very important in this. It's about Russia and Belarus. This is a problem complex east of us that I would say affects Sweden and Finland to a greater extent than it affects Norway, Denmark and Iceland. The others are members of NATO, which Sweden and Finland are not. From a geographical point of view, Sweden and Finland are closer to Russia, in different ways. Historically Sweden has also looked much east, while Norway and Denmark have looked more west. Today it is probably almost 300 years since the peace in Nystad, when the Great Northern War ended and Sweden finally lost the position of great power in the Baltic Sea region. Developments in Russia and Belarus are very problematic. It poses great challenges for us. It takes only an hour or an hour and a half by plane from Stockholm to Minsk. We see the construction of a nuclear power plant in Astravjets, Belarus, near the border with Lithuania. We have the problem with Nord Stream 2. We also have, not least, the fact that Vladimir Putin and Russia are trying to redecorate the map in Europe in different ways. This, of course, challenges the security dynamics of the Baltic Sea region, and in the long run it will require enhanced cooperation in the Nordic region. It is not just what is happening now, where you can pool some resources and cut some costs through coordination, but we will need a stronger Nordic voice within the European Union. We must also, above all, ensure greater cooperation and solidarity with and support for the three Baltic states, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. A few years ago, I had the privilege of visiting the NATO Strategic Communications Centre in Riga, NATO Stratcom, and seeing how to work there. I think it is very useful for Swedish politicians to visit Riga, Tallinn, Vilnius and other cities in the Baltic countries and to listen to their descriptions of their relationship with Russia and the threat that Russia today poses to them. The Nordic Council, as well as the Nordic ministers and the Nordic countries, will need to cooperate more closely in the future, both to meet different processes within EU cooperation and to invite the Baltic countries in the five-state constellation in the future, so that there will be five plus three in more formats. Not least in this context, Madam President, we must find ways of channelling more support to all those who are fighting for democracy in Russia and Belarus.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1042	Madam President, I would like Over the past year, the Nordic cooperation and the situation in our border regions have really been high on our common agenda. A special debate was recently held in this House. I have answered many parliamentary questions and had several meetings with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council. What has also been incredibly important, as we have heard here earlier today, are the many talks with citizens, companies, representatives along our borders and my fellow ministers of cooperation. I have also participated in talks on the situation in the border regions to which the Swedish delegation has invited. I would really like to thank the Members of Parliament for a good dialogue and the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council for a great commitment and a very good dialogue on these issues. Of course, I look forward now to taking on the continued work to achieve this vision and to continue the good cooperation with both the Riksdag and the Nordic Council. I am here today to talk about Nordic cooperation on the basis of the letter that the government submitted to Parliament in mid-March. The letter describes the activities in 2020, which was certainly a year marked by the pandemic. However, I would like to take this opportunity to look to the future today and to talk about how, with lessons from this year, this pandemic and this crisis in our luggage, we can strengthen Nordic cooperation and how we can realise the Heads of State's vision of becoming the world's most sustainable integrated region. Madam President, I would like Nordic cooperation is unique. We have one of the oldest and most extensive regional collaborations in the world. It rests on a solid foundation of our common history, our cultural heritage, geographical proximity, language comprehension, strong economic ties and, of course, strong popular and familiar ties. Our cooperation is based on common values. We value a strong common welfare. We have an entrepreneurial spirit that has made us successful and put the Nordic region on the map. We see the Nordic region as one of the most interwoven regions in the world, and our citizens are used to being able to live and move across borders. This year the Nordic Council of Ministers celebrates 50 years. Next year, the Nordic Passport Union will celebrate 70 years. We have had open borders, free movement and an integrated labour market. It has, of course, helped to strengthen the links between our countries for such a long time. But for a year now, we have been in an extraordinary situation. Our societies and our cooperation have been put on an incredibly difficult test in a way that we have not experienced for a long time. Perhaps we took Nordic cooperation a little too much for granted. Citizens testify that trust in cooperation has been damaged, and the vision of being the world's most integrated region feels very far away. Families have been torn apart, and the security of businesses and workers has been torn away. We have a great deal of work ahead of us now to rebuild trust. Madam President, I would like Since the start of the pandemic, the government has been acting forcefully and constructively to solve the problems that have arisen and to ensure that flexible solutions are in place. We have proposed a series of perhaps a little unusual but flexible measures to ensure that borders are as open as possible. We have constantly argued for pragmatic local and regional solutions and pointed out that restrictions must take account of the conditions in the border regions. The dialogue between the Nordic governments has been intense. A lot of people say it's been good. Maybe it's served us well. But it has not been enough, because our citizens have been hit hard. What has happened on the part of the government is that the Swedish Minister of Social Affairs has regularly met his colleagues to exchange experiences on vaccines, for example, where we also cooperate. Minister of Transport Eneroth has conducted a dialogue with Nordic colleagues on problems in the port of Gothenburg and in the air and ferry connections that they have been able to solve. The Prime Minister has been very involved in Nordic cooperation, and I have had several meetings, also with the Prime Minister, with citizens, companies and border municipalities. The Prime Minister, Minister for Employment Nordmark and I have all spoken to our Norwegian counterparts about the terms and conditions for daily and weekly commuters to Norway. These joint efforts resulted in an exception for day commuters. Compensation came in place for daily and weekly commuters. That is a good thing, but the issue is not resolved because the issue of weekly commuters is still not resolved, as we have also heard here today. Of course, no one should have to risk their finances when you are prevented from getting to work. The Border Barriers Council and border regional information services have played a key role this year. They have worked intensively to remove border barriers, and many have been released. However, work is now under way to solve many remaining problems. We should remember that in recent years the government has managed to remove some fifty obstacles, not least with the help of the Border Barriers Council, which has pointed them out so that we have been able to take the work further. Through constructive cooperation, we have managed to maintain the most necessary work commuting in terms of day commuters and compensation from the Norwegian perspective. But this is the main part of the work commuting. A large and important part remains, too, so we are not content here and now. The government will continue to work to remove all remaining border barriers in cooperation with our neighbours. After a long and difficult time, we can still see that we may be able to move toward brighter times. This is because more and more people are now being vaccinated. The Nordic countries are gradually starting to ease their restrictions. Of course, it is gratifying to me as Minister for the Nordic Region that, from 31 May onwards, we no longer have any entry restrictions from our Nordic neighbours. This is a message that we know has been very much awaited by many citizens but also by many companies along our borders. The government thus continues to take precedence, and we want to prioritise the Nordic region. It is important not only for our companies and citizens but also for the Nordic cooperation as a whole, which is of course based on freedom of movement. Madam President, I would like We must learn lessons from the crisis. We must strengthen Nordic cooperation, and we must rebuild trust, not least in our border regions. As you know, as Minister of the Nordic Countries, I have really tried to work towards finding better collaboration in terms of our borders. It is a question of having better dialogue and coordination before any decision that affects our borders at all. We need to work actively to anticipate and minimise negative consequences if border restrictions now have to be imposed, precisely because we need to prevent our businesses and citizens who live, work and live at and on our borders. I can't let that happen again. Of this ambition, this work and this comment on the part of the Swedish Government and on my part as Swedish Minister for the Nordic Region, we also see a result: At the last meeting of the Ministers for Cooperation, we took important steps in the right direction when we ministers agreed to set up an external investigation. This study will both map the Nordic cooperation during the pandemic and present forward-looking recommendations in the short term but also in the long term. It is also about how we can learn lessons from the crisis. How can we strengthen collaboration based on the crisis awareness we have now created? How should we protect Nordic integration? The report will be presented in November this year. This is a very important message. It was not self-evident to even be able to agree to make a decision on an investigation. Now all countries have supported this, and it is an important message to many who have actually lost faith in Nordic cooperation over the past year. My hope and expectation is that the investigator's recommendations will really be a concrete tool in the work ahead. This is important. We shall take this opportunity to learn lessons from the crisis, and we must equip ourselves more strongly. For new crises come, and then we must be better coordinated. Madam President, I would like Nordic cooperation is proceeding step by step. Nevertheless, let me highlight a few examples. We have emergency preparedness and security of supply, which is a high priority for the Finnish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. It is now also high on the agenda in many Nordic cooperation forums. As part of the work, a broad survey will be carried out over the coming year on how Nordic cooperation on crisis preparedness and security of supply can be strengthened. On the infrastructure side, discussions are ongoing on several possible future projects that would have a major impact on integration in the Nordic region. These are mainly bilateral discussions, for example between Norway and Sweden. There we agree to study together the possibilities of a high-speed train connection between Oslo and Stockholm. With Denmark, there is a good dialogue on Öresund relations and how we can strengthen them. It is about future opportunities to increase passenger and freight traffic, not least when Fehmarn Belt - the connection opens in 2029. Nordic cultural cooperation remains strong. Culture plays a crucial role in achieving the vision of becoming the world's most sustainable integrated region. Culture binds us together. Therefore, the Council of Ministers for Culture, even after the redistribution in the budget of the Nordic Council of Ministers, still has one of the largest budgetary frameworks. As the world starts up, we want to see increased investments in sustainability, for example. There are enormous opportunities for the Nordic countries. With our companies that are world leaders in sustainability, we can, should and should play a crucial role in the future. Madam President, I would like Interpersonal trust is the cornerstone of Nordic cooperation. Trust is about having confidence. It is a matter of confidence, but it is also a question of predictability and security. Right now, the situation is that all these fundamental values of trust have been challenged. Good and trusting interpersonal relationships are now crucial to repairing Nordic cooperation. Here the government has a great responsibility, and I have a great responsibility as Nordic Minister for Cooperation in the Swedish Government. But we can't do everything in the government. We can set the rules and conditions, but the building of interpersonal trust is something that happens on a daily basis and not just in meetings between ministers. We all have a responsibility – citizens, businesses, civil society and Members of Parliament. Of course, the future of the Nordic region is not cut into stone. It's in our hands. The Government has very high ambitions for Nordic cooperation. We will now learn lessons from the pandemic. We're going to build trust, and we're going to move forward. Together we will develop and strengthen Nordic cooperation.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1075	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Minister Hallberg thanks for a good dialogue. Thank you very much, because, as I said in my speech, I feel that Anna Hallberg is on the track and actually listens and wants to make a change. In my speech I mentioned two of the people I have met: Stefan who has not been home since Monday Christmas and Tomas who works at Gardemoen Airport and very much wants to meet his children. But if Tomas goes home and meets his children, he must not come back to work, so in the choice between meeting his children and putting food on the table for the children, he chooses to put food on the table. As Diana Laitinen Carlsson said, many people believe that the situation of our commuters is resolved, but for our weekly commuters and self-employed people it is not yet resolved. Although the weekly commutes are longer in Norway than in Sweden, they are apparently more dangerous than those who commute. They have to be, otherwise the rules wouldn't be like that. The government said: We are not satisfied. That is good, but then I ask: What happens concretely? What are Minister Hallberg and the government doing to solve the situation for our weekly commuters and self-employed so that they can have a decent situation and both go to work and go home?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1079	Madam President, I would like This is, of course, a very unsatisfactory situation, and the government continues to have a constant dialogue with Norwegian representatives to find solutions for weekly commuters and self-employed workers. The situation is, of course, unacceptable, and we work in many different channels – at government, embassy and service level – to try to have such a high degree of urgency in the dialogue with Norway that the situation can be resolved. We are not satisfied, but Norway has the decision. We have constantly stressed to Norway that there must be the possibility of flexible solutions. It is important to think again and again and that there is no black or white lock when it comes to what is possible or not. The answer to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's question about what the Swedish government is doing is that we are constantly trying to find new solutions. It can be about vaccination, opening up some border regions with low spread of infection, reaching an agreement with employers on testing and so on. These proposals have not yet been fully heard in Norway, and I regret that. But we keep working on it, and we won't give up.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1084	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Hallberg for his answer. As I mentioned, we also note problems with vaccinations. So weekly commuters or self-employed people cannot go home to vaccinate themselves even though we are fighting a pandemic. I have received information from the Government's employees that it is also working in several channels, but I would like the Government to give concrete expression to what this means. How is dialogue on these issues perceived? The Government said that it works in several channels at the level of ministers, embassies and officials, but does the Government see that there is an opportunity to switch up further? In fact, the weekly and self-employed start to be very sad for a number of reasons. It tempts us not to meet our loved ones, and it tempts us not to have our usual income. After all, the compensation that has been available since April is lower than the usual salary, and some have not even begun to receive it. Does the Minister see that you can switch up further in contact?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1088	Madam President, I would like We will switch up further in the contacts, because we are not satisfied and are not there yet. We will do everything we can to resolve this for the families, businesses and workers affected. I thank Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson for drawing our attention to the issue of vaccination, and now we are running it. Vaccinations must be possible regardless of which Nordic country you are in. We knew this from the beginning, but it has been brought up to date with the problems of the weekly commutes. How is the dialogue perceived? I don't want to speculate because it's Norway's decision. It is important to remember that each country makes decisions on its border restrictions, and I do not want to speculate on whether and when Norway will change its restrictions. But with vaccinations and vaccination passes, which at least Sweden should be able to take place from 1 July, there should of course be new openings. So there is relatively little time left, but it can feel long for families who haven't met for a long time. Therefore, we are not content to wait until July or August, but we are on at all times. I very much hope that we will hear, but I cannot speculate on the success we will have.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1092	Madam President, I would like It does not come as a surprise to Minister Anna Hallberg that the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council has arranged two seminars with people from different parts of the country who have testified about their conditions. The Government has participated in both and listened to all of this. We have also heard a test map here today. Linda Modig has told me from Norrbotten, and my colleague Mattias Karlsson has given similar versions. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has told us from Värmland and Bohuslän, and Pål Jonson and Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm have witnessed in other contexts. I myself usually talk about what it looks like in southern Sweden and Skåne. These are strong stories, and often people get caught in a nasty and unpleasant way. Anna Hallberg has really been a listening minister here. Hopefully we can see a future beyond the pandemic now that the vaccinations are starting to work. How, then, are we going to open up society? I think that this kind of idea can be called for nationally. But that is not what I am asking of Minister Anna Hallberg, but how we will try to manifest the healing of what has broken, not least in the border regions. I can imagine that you can do different things in Norrbotten and in Värmland and Bohuslän respectively in South Sweden. I think it is important to confirm the people of the north in the border areas and say: we understand you. It's broken, it's hurt and it's gone wrong. But now we want to point out that there is another future. It can be infrastructure projects or other concrete symbolizing that there is a new tomorrow.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1099	Madam President, I would like We'll see some light in the tunnel. At best, it is not just a sparkle but a light that will grow stronger in the future. But governments must also show with words and deeds that we understand the situation in our border regions, confirm it and remedy it. So to Hans Wallmark's question. Earlier I mentioned the vaccination. We Nordic co-operation ministers will meet from 20 to 21 June in Finland. Then it's high on the agenda – if it doesn't, I'll make sure it does – that we need to have a common strategy, but not only that, but also a common approach to how to open up the Nordic region. I believe that we must tactically decide how we are now to meet our border citizens, we governments together. For example, the Government has a close dialogue with Finland. Next week I will participate with my Finnish co-worker in the Tornedal Council's Arena Tornedalen event. The fact that we are participating together there is not just a symbolic act, but a will that we are there and that we are working towards change. I think it is very important that we are out together – ministers, governments and parliamentarians – in the country. We must, as soon as possible, start moving around the country and show that we are there, that we see the problems and that we want to remedy them. It is important not only to be visible but also to have an action plan. In addition to having other issues on our agenda from 20 to 21 June, we need to put a map together, we Nordic co-operation ministers. And then the union ministers get to grips with it. I am pleased, Madam President, that Mr Wallmark is raising precisely the question of how we open up together, because it is a high priority.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1104	Madam President, I would like When Sweden closed the border with Denmark, it was suddenly discovered that all Danes going to and from Bornholm mainly travel across Swedish territory via Ystad. Now they tried to fix it quickly, but it was a surprise, not for us who live in Skåne, but for the rest of the country. This is the problem of open and closed borders every two years. It becomes incomprehensible for the individual to understand what applies. It was the same when the Danes suddenly closed the border with South Sweden. Those who are one of Sweden's largest domestic airports, namely Kastrup, then became impossible to reach for concerts and Swedes. This is literally a hat-nighting that rips apart trust. That is why it is so important to do something concrete. I think that people are needed in different parts of the country and perhaps not so much fine words but rather concrete actions, so that we really understand that it is serious. Madam President, I would like The Government also concerned Fehmarn Belt. I think that was important and central. Now that we're talking about the North, I think it's wise that we do it in bigger circles. We have our Nordic five core, but we will also add the Baltic countries to this. Germany is also self-evident, and that is why I think it is good with Fehmarn Belt. But then we also need to think about it in the light of open and closed borders. Now we may open up to Denmark, but there is still some Chineseery towards Germany, for example. I think you have to think about that kind of thing. I could give a concrete example from a southern Swedish perspective, and that is to call on the Minister of Finance to look at the tax agreement that exists between Sweden and Denmark. It is such a concrete thing. Madam President, I would like Now that things can begin to go back to normal, let us see fewer fine words and more concrete actions.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1109	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark and I do not agree on all matters, but here we really agree. I am opposed to fine words if they are not followed by concrete actions. It is not responsible, I would even say. I would really like to emphasise the impossible situation that has existed for our border citizens about what applies. I believe that for all of us it has been almost impossible to comply with the regulations that apply in the Nordic countries, not only those that apply to borders but also other regulations. Mr Wallmark mentioned the fiscal framework, which might need to be reviewed. In several countries there is an ambition to put the shovel in the ground between Sweden and several of our Nordic neighbours when it comes to infrastructure projects. As I mentioned earlier, we are now engaged in certain bilateral projects which I believe we will be able to move on with in the near future and also implement. At least it sounds like that to our transport ministers. All of this is incredibly important, but perhaps the most important thing is to show in the short term that we are serious about this, such as vaccination passes, and that we should look at it together in the Nordic countries and say that it is not just about Norwegian citizens being able to go to Sweden and start shopping again in our border trade, that it is fantastically good for the Swedish border trade and that they will then be allowed to go home without quarantine. It is also about Swedes being able to come in and be twice vaccinated in Norway without quarantine and that you do not make a difference between people and people. These are not symbolic acts. These are actions for real. This is when you no longer have the yellow vests, the Swedish embankment or whatever you are discussing. Above all, it is about showing that now we want each other well. I think we should start in the small, not with the really big infrastructure projects. We are going to start in the small, and perhaps the small thing is now, this summer, to look at how we can open the borders, with the amazing vaccination possibilities that we now have in place.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1114	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased when Minister Anna Hallberg so clearly declares that we must strengthen cooperation and restore trust and trust. That is exactly the right tone to set. I would like to dwell on the dear favourite question of the Nordic Council, namely that of a permanent configuration of a Council of Ministers for Transport. I would like to hear the Government's reasoning on this. The Government itself has experience of sitting in a permanent Council of Ministers configuration. I wonder if it has not been more favorable than unneeded. Is it not the case that elaborate channels and formats that are constantly returned to are very favorable in a situation where relationships can become strained or frosty for various reasons? I think that there are many advantages to this, and I would like to hear the Council's view on it. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Government and the Swedish Government for the fact that the entry restrictions to Sweden that we have now had have been abolished. This is incredibly important, not least for many Finnish weekly commuters. Unfortunately, having done covid tests every week has led to adverse health effects. This is incredibly important in the Torne Valley. Let us now hope that our neighbours will meet up in the same way and remove their restrictions. Madam President, I would like to ask Minister Anna Hallberg to comment and discuss the value of a permanent Council of Ministers' formation.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1118	Madam President, I would like I'd love to, Linda Modig. I would like to start by saying that I really share the view that transport issues – infrastructure and building the Nordic region – are one of the most important things we have. We now have every opportunity to do this in a climate-smart way and to both reduce emissions and increase trade and growth in the Nordic region. I just wanted to start there. There is agreement between the countries on the importance of continuing the cooperation and coordination that exists in this area. From the Swedish side, it is our view that there is good informal cooperation. Linda Modig asked me if you would like to formalize this. I have experience from the Council of Ministers in relation to our Nordic Ministers for Cooperation, and I have to say that the Council of Ministers itself is sometimes burdened with formalities. It can be a major challenge to have bilateral negotiations and dialogues alongside or in the Council of Ministers. If you have a Council of Ministers, there are a lot of questions that will be on the table there. As far as transport and infrastructure are concerned, there is a need at the moment to get bilateral infrastructure projects under way. It is not entirely straightforward or simply setting up a structure and then saying that this is what will solve it. I'm not saying that's what Linda Modig says either, but I want to point out that it's also a challenge in the formal structures that exist. Finally, I should like to say that it does not mean that it is not good to have a structure in the long term, because it makes it less dependent and more structural forms to stick to, which can make it easier.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1123	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I absolutely believe that formalized constellations can be challenging. Nevertheless, I would like to note that many of the results that Minister Anna Hallberg pointed out in her main speech relate precisely to this type of Council of Ministers' constellations. I think we can all agree that it is an important piece of the puzzle in creating contacts, results and Nordic benefits. It is precisely when it comes to transport and increasing mobility, increasing mobility and increasing connectivity in the Nordic countries that it is just such a strong and concrete collaboration that is needed to make Nordic use of our citizens' everyday lives. That is what this is all about. That is where we must begin by restoring confidence and trust. We must move from words to deeds. We must ensure that these collaborations get started and that they really give Nordic benefits. I believe that it will be absolutely crucial after this crisis, if we are not to lose the entire border commute, that our citizens and cross-border commuters are experiencing concrete improvements and that it is actually progressing. Otherwise, I believe that the damage that has now been done will unfortunately be permanent. That is why I think it is so important that we try to find concrete projects where cooperation can provide Nordic benefits for citizens.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1126	Madam President, I would like I would like to come back to the fact that I agree that there is a need to secure a long-term plan in the long term and also to have a structure for this. Having said that, however, we can also see that these boiler infrastructure projects are not currently on the table, with all five countries participating. What is most important now are bilateral projects. I mentioned Stockholm – Oslo, for example. We also have it in the Öresund region. We also have the more long-distance link all the way down from Germany, and we could perhaps find an opportunity to dock in this from Germany up to Norway and so on. But these are projects that do not always concern all countries. That is why it can also be challenging. It is even challenging to have bilateral infrastructure projects right now and to make them a reality. If we are to create a Council of Ministers for Transport, I believe that we must ensure both. It must be ensured that bilateral negotiations and contacts are not hindered by placing all the issues on a Council of Ministers table. I think it is very important, Madam President, that we also continue with the bilateral projects in which we are now actually beginning to see some momentum, in which we all long for so much and need so much in Nordic cooperation. I also know that the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council has attended a delegation meeting by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. I really believe that the delegation was given a presentation of what is going on in the area of infrastructure – much better than I can give. It is positive that this is happening. Let us then continue to support the bilateral and important projects and negotiations. At the same time, in the long term, we will have to discuss whether we need better structures. Then I do not think any country would close the door to it in the long term. At the moment, however, the need is obviously to get bilateral projects and infrastructure negotiations started, which are so important to get in place.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1132	Madam President, I would like It is not every day that I say this, but I would also like to thank Minister Anna Hallberg so far for the strength, courage and ambition of many of the Nordic cooperation issues that have been under severe pressure during the pandemic. Then, like my other opposition colleagues, I would have liked the government as a whole and, above all, the Prime Minister to have been more visible in its handling. I would like to dwell on the cultural infrastructure in this change of line. We are talking about the Council of Ministers for Transport and Infrastructure. If it is something that has involved many of us over the past year, it is the Council of Ministers' strong attack on the Nordic cooperation budget for culture, education and language exchange. The Council of Ministers has attacked this budget line quite harshly and in confrontation with a unanimous Nordic Council on this issue. I hear Minister Hallberg here, for example, talk about the importance of language understanding, social trust and knowledge of each other. At the same time, the report rejects proposals made by the Swedish Democrats to increase and prioritise efforts for language cooperation and education. Parts of the Councils of Ministers also say no to the sections of the Culture and Language Budget, to which civil society has reacted strongly. What do you want to put on the table, so to speak?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1135	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Emilsson for highlighting the issue of the cultural sector's budget. It remains a high priority. I would like to begin by saying that the Councils of Ministers for Culture and Education are contributing to a very important activity. In order to realise the vision, they are absolutely crucial. That is why they have continued to have the largest budgetary frameworks. That being said, the financial perspectives for 2021 represent concrete steps forward to steer the business towards the vision adopted at the end of 2019. Then the strategic priorities and action plans decided by the Council of Ministers must also be followed up on these priorities. I would like to emphasise that it certainly does not mean attacks or confrontations against the cultural sector or against the cultural budget, as Mr Emilsson said. The cultural sector still has one of the biggest budgetary frameworks because it is crucial for us to move towards this vision and for us to be able to strengthen the Nordic identity, not only in ourselves but also in the world. It is incredibly important for Nordic growth and for Nordic competitiveness that we live up to the Nordic brand and Nordic identity. But when you adopt a new vision, it means, after all, redistributing the budget. We have three strategic priorities in terms of vision. It is a green Nordic region, a competitive Nordic region and a socially sustainable Nordic region. These three priorities do not contradict efforts in the cultural or educational sector. However, they call for a redistribution of the budget, which gives priority to the Greens, with a view to actually achieving a more even distribution of these funds, of the total resources, which steers towards the vision. The cultural sector is therefore still a high priority. But a redistribution was necessary with the new vision.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1139	Madam President, I would like I'm still confused. It is clear that it remains the largest budgetary framework. But it can be with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 crowns in relation to other things. But it is still the case that the culture, education and language sector is to some extent directing policy downstream. Very much of the sense of Nordic solidarity, the spirit of consensus and trust, which in turn lowers transaction costs for trade agreements, infrastructure, industry and so on, comes from our having a good understanding of each other across all generations. Today, we know, given studies and reports, that language understanding in the younger generations has fallen drastically in relation to middle-aged and older people, and we know that there is a great deal of work to be done in the Nordic education system and in schools to convey more of Nordic culture and Nordic languages. We now see that trust, which is commonly referred to as Nordic gold, is now being tested, for example, in the form of statements that I pointed out in my speech and that actually come from industry, from an article in Today's Industry earlier this week. Tobias Wikström writes: The Nordic exchange is intense in many areas except politics. If the legislation is harmonised in the Nordic countries, it is the EU's credit, not that of governments. That leads me to two questions. What does Minister Hallberg want to say in order to refute the thesis that still seems to establish itself and be full-scale in large parts of the business world? And what does she want to say to explain to all the actors in civil society, cultural life and others who have blown to battle because they think that the effects of destroying this part of the Nordic cultural budget have a huge impact on Nordic trust?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1142	Madam President, I would like I also saw that article in Today's industry – I think it was a leader. I can in a way acknowledge the problem that it has actually meant that political joint responsibility for the Nordic countries has not been taken over during this crisis. We have done what we have been able to do from the Swedish Government. I am sure the other governments have also done what they have been able to do. But in the rapid escalation of the pandemic that took place last spring, there were very national-oriented measures, and the focus of politics was very much on national and domestic politics. I am convinced that we need to discuss at the highest level between the Nordic governments what we are now politically responsible for. Hopefully we will be able to have that discussion from 20 to 21 June. This must not happen again, for we in the political leadership must get better equipped into the next crisis – even if it comes quickly. It is also something that not only business but all our citizens, not least border citizens, expect of us. So I can only endorse this, Madam President. We in Sweden have to do everything we can to ensure that the investigation, the results and the measures now being taken on the basis of these experiences – which is done not least in the Nordic ministerial cooperation – will lead us in a completely different direction from the one in which we met this crisis. The next crisis we will face together; it is a political responsibility. When it comes to culture, I'm a little concerned. For example, we have made some adjustments in the 2021 budget to take account of the fact that the cultural sector has also been particularly affected during the pandemic. Of course, we need to clarify the focus and priority that culture and education have in Nordic cooperation. As I said, if we still have the biggest budgetary frameworks for culture and education and if we continue to make additional efforts in the cultural sector, it must also be communicated to our citizens.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1147	Madam President, I would like In the shadow of all discussion around borders and the nationalistic features of some countries, we also see an increase in political decisions that make a difference to people living in the Nordic countries. This applies, for example, to the ghetto laws in Denmark, where the Danish Government has drawn up a proposal to restrict non-Western citizens in certain areas. This was presented just a few days ago. This applies not least to the demands made on unaccompanied refugee young people here in Sweden, where a distinction is made between them and other young people in Sweden. Is there a need for deeper work for democracy and human rights in the Nordic countries, given that we are going to reach a socially sustainable Nordic region? Is there something that has been discussed?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1149	Madam President, I would like I thank Lorena Delgado Varas for raising an issue that is crucial to the Nordic identity, which I spoke about earlier. It is based on our common values. I also mentioned earlier that we may have taken Nordic cooperation a little for granted. The worst thing would be for us to take our common values for granted – if we did not guard and guard them and constantly highlight them. In crisis, there is a risk of acting nationally and quite primitively and quickly when it comes to shutting out or shutting down, and I think this is a very important issue that we need to raise on the table – not least in our Nordic co-operation ministers. We need to monitor and affirm our Nordic values that have served our societies so well and that are our identity. When we talked about the cultural sector and the education sector earlier, Madam President, we talked about identity and that these were important parameters. The whole basic view of people's equal value and a society where everyone should have the same chance – that we have a welfare society that is the basis of our identity – is absolutely crucial. So I can only acknowledge that this is an issue which must never be taken for granted, Madam President, and which must be constantly monitored.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1152	Madam President, I would like I can only say that this issue has really been around for a very long time; even before the coronapandemia started to introduce different laws in Norway and Denmark, and also here in Sweden, which makes a difference to people. The colleagues here talked earlier about rebuilding confidence in the Nordic Council. I wonder a little how it intends to bring in the knowledge of the Nordic Council with regard to decisions concerning, for example, borders. We have sort of stood a little by and looked into the situation when the various governments have taken decisions without even talking to the Nordic Council, which nevertheless has expertise in this. I wonder how the Swedish Government will work to strengthen the Nordic Council and perhaps also take in its knowledge when making different decisions, for example on border barriers issues.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1154	Madam President, I would like The Nordic Council is of great importance, and it cannot be stressed enough how important it is that the Nordic Council is an integral part of the process when we are now to develop the Nordic region towards the vision adopted by the Prime Ministers. When I came in as a relatively new, or actually completely new, Nordic co-operation minister, the vision had just been adopted. I think that the Nordic Council felt – at least I heard – that it had not really been involved in the process. That worried me, because a vision must all be able to buy into, feel and feel involved in, not least the Nordic Council. Now we are taking the next step, and now we are going to implement the action plans that will lead us towards the vision. I would just like to stress from the Swedish Government how incredibly important it is that the Nordic Council – and, I should say, the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council – has been a strong, constructive and very committed force throughout the pandemic. But of course we will also ensure that the Nordic Council is not only involved at the margins or at certain meetings, but the Nordic Council should be integrated into the process of how we are going to move towards the vision. As far as border closures are concerned, it is a national competence; we all know that. Often these decisions are also taken quite quickly. This does not mean that there can be no dialogue and that there can be no argument as to whether it is really necessary to close the border or what alternatives there are. You can look at whether it is possible to minimize the consequences and so on. In this context, too, I absolutely agree with Lorena Delgado Varas, Madam President – there is the opportunity to listen to the Nordic Council to make use of it. There will be views that it is incredibly difficult for governments themselves to take on board without having a close dialogue with the Nordic Council. I therefore endorse this, Madam President.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1157	Madam President, I would like Of course I support all the reservations expressed by the Moderates in this report, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation number 6 on a Council of Ministers for Transport. Madam President, I would like One of the most beautiful parts of the Swedish national anthem is for me For me, the North has always been a matter of course. It is part of the world where we understand each other, where our ways of life are quite similar and where the history of our countries goes into each other. It makes us a safe and predictable part of the world. But nothing goes without saying. Everything can change. Perhaps a pandemic was needed for us to begin to appreciate what we have and not, as I have done, take our Nordic cooperation and our open borders for granted. The debate today – where we hear words such as Nevertheless, it is painful that it is real. Madam President, I would like Today we have listened to many wise contributions about the situation we find ourselves in and how we have to work our way back to the strong and integrated region of the Nordic region. A few years ago, the Nordic Council, on a proposal from the Conservative Group, decided that all proposals submitted to the Council should be examined against the words It can be useful for the region as a whole, but not least for us who live here in the Nordic region. Nordic benefit is to tear down barriers to borders, increase language understanding, promote the Nordic heritage by seeing the important role of culture in joining us or something as obvious as enabling digital payments across national borders, so that Swish becomes Swosh or Nosh or something like that. Unfortunately, too many of our citizens have recently lost faith in Nordic cooperation during the pandemic, when borders were closed and we were prevented from going to our jobs or to our neighbours 200 metres from the border on the other side or from meeting our newborn grandson. That's why the words are now more important than ever. We must restore, develop and strengthen not only the formal elements, but also the people's faith in Nordic cooperation. Madam President, I would like Today's headline is a Nordic cooperation, but today's debate also includes a number of motions that address cooperation in a larger northern region: the Baltic Sea region and the Arctic. Ulf Kristersson points out in the Moderate Party Movement 3367 the importance of the government working for increased cooperation in northern Europe. Areas such as freedom of expression, cyber security, contact with civil society and the importance of strengthening resilience and media against external influences are highlighted both in motions and in the committee's position. I would therefore like to take the opportunity, Madam President, to highlight the importance of cooperation in the Baltic Sea region. In order for our region to continue to develop and be a growth region, cooperation not only between the Nordic countries but also between the countries of the Baltic Sea region needs to be strengthened. The role of the Nordic Council in Nordic cooperation is well known. The report also highlights the Baltic Assembly, which is the Baltic countries' counterpart to the Nordic Council, and the role of the Arctic Council, in times of melting ice and an increasingly uncertain position in the Northwest Passage. But we have another platform where Baltic Sea parliamentarians meet and discuss current and strategic issues: the Baltic Sea Region Parliamentary Conference, BSPC. BSPC is a cooperation body for parliamentarians from all Baltic Sea countries, autonomous regions and regions. That, of course, includes Russia. Although the BSPC, like the Nordic Council, has no decision-making power, recommendations are made to all countries' governments about what members think should be done to promote growth, combat climate change or improve the environment in the Baltic Sea, or how we want the work on human rights to develop. In recent years, BSPC has done a great deal of work on migration issues, and a major project is currently under way to highlight research, innovations and examples of how we protect biodiversity both in and around the Baltic Sea. More often than rarely, Sweden takes on the lead shirt in the projects being carried out, and right now, Madam President, Sweden is chairing the BSPC – a presidency we have been asked to extend by one year because of the current pandemic. This says a lot about Sweden's position in the Baltic Sea cooperation and gives us the opportunity to influence positions and orientations when it comes to how the Baltic Sea region develops. Previously, the Swedish delegation to BSPC has been an ad hoc organisation, and we have appointed new delegates to each session. New to this term of office, Madam President, is that we now have a permanent delegation, which regularly meets our fellow Members from the Baltic Sea region. This new model allows for a better continuity and gives those of us who work in the delegation deeper knowledge and thus a greater opportunity to influence which issues are raised, as the last two projects clearly show: migration and the environment, two issues where Sweden stands strong. With a permanent delegation, we now also have better opportunities to follow up how the Swedish Government works with the recommendations we have sent. Right now we are preparing this year's session, which Sweden is hosting and which was supposed to be a celebration of BSPC's 30th birthday this year. The physical celebration itself will have to wait, but our important democratic work will not. New for this year, which is also the result of our Swedish Presidency, is that we are organising a youth forum before the session on 30 August. We are bringing together future Baltic Sea politicians and giving them an important role in our work. The Nordic Council of Youth will also participate on 28 August. Our hope is that this year's forum will be the first step in a more permanent cooperation between BSPC and the region's young people. This is also a sign of Sweden's influence in the Baltic Sea cooperation. Cooperation at parliamentary level is important and connects our region. At a time when countries are turning inwards, it is even more important to maintain, nurture and develop the cooperation bodies and opportunities for dialogue that exist. If we want to be involved in promoting norms and standards globally in an increasingly unpredictable world, collaborative platforms are where we can reach not only those we usually see as our allies but also a wider range of countries of great importance. Nordic issues extend far beyond the Nordic countries. Those of us who believe in respect for human rights, an open and free society and open and secure borders should and must use all the tools at their disposal. The Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference is one such tool, Madam President. My message to the government is therefore: take note of our recommendations! They can be the lowest common denominator that opens doors for further and broader cooperation, for the benefit of the Nordic region and our entire region.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1175	Madam President, I would like Cooperation between the Nordic countries is facing a new start. Like many others who have taken part in the debate today, I do so in my role as a member of the Nordic Council. There, I perceive that there is a strong commitment that we will continue to work to strengthen cooperation in the Nordic region. Since the creation of the Nordic Council in 1952, the situation we are currently experiencing during the pandemic is perhaps the biggest challenge to date. Closed borders have taken a toll on the community. Several people I have met who live or live close to the borders can, as we have heard in other testimonies here today, describe how distrust and opposition towards the peoples of the neighbouring country have flourished. It is therefore hopeful to listen to how much commitment there is among the speakers and many in this room so that we can work together to look forward and strengthen the links between our Nordic countries. Not least, the active work of the government in this area is of great importance. The report we are discussing on the Government's letter of Nordic cooperation and the report by the Nordic Council's Swedish delegation on the activities highlights a number of issues in this area. Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to support the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and hence reject the motions. In our work for human rights, democracy and international conflict resolution through diplomacy, our Nordic countries have a strong tradition and also an international credibility to fall back on. These are areas where, of course, there is a need for continued effort and commitment. But it is in everyday life that these issues also have their starting point. That's where we build trust and create understanding for our fellow human beings and each other. It is by removing border barriers in the Nordic countries that people can perceive as difficult and difficult, that we can clearly show that we are achieving the goal we have set ourselves: to create the world's most integrated region, focusing on the labour market, social issues, education and business areas. In this context, particular emphasis can be placed on the ongoing work carried out by the Border Barriers Council and the Border Barriers Committee to monitor and follow up these issues. It is there that the objective is to remove eight to twelve border barriers per year. Examples identified in the Border Barriers Council's continuous mapping include problems with bank accounts for cross-border commuters, differences in parental insurance systems, drug management, processing times for guardians, tax issues, e-reciplines and others. These are examples where the Border Barriers Council is constantly working to remove barriers. Otherwise, there is not a lack of accurate examples of the neighbour who has become a signum for decades. Between Norway and Värmland it has been almost classic for many years to highlight the devisen and it is the stream that is the border. It hasn't been more dramatic than that. Competition may have existed in the field of sport with friendly exchanges. But now, during the pandemic, several have expressed how the tone has changed, and we have also heard it from the speaker's seat here today. A great discontent was created against the Norwegian Government because for a long time they did not take border commuters seriously who were more or less excluded from their jobs or their home trips. The situation has been handled, and we can see the light in the tunnel. However, we have also heard today that there are still things to be done to achieve fully. On my own home level, in Skåne, the Swedish-Danish association has been a part of everyday life. On the boats between Helsingborg and Helsingör, by train or car over the Öresund bridge to Kastrup and Copenhagen or on the ferry between Rönne on Bornholm and Ystad there is daily cross-border cooperation. Greater Copenhagen has become a concept that municipalities and regions work from outside. However, when I have recently walked on the Öresund coast in my area, I have been able to see Denmark as close as before, but the exchange has been on the reverse. The ferries have faithfully stopped back and forth the 20 minutes it takes to travel from city to city, but those who have wanted to leave have been given a licence, even if they have not been allowed to leave at all or have had to be quarantined. Border trade has more or less stopped. Now we see that the opportunities are being opened up for better integration between Sweden and Denmark through a diligent work from the government and from actors who have an interest in increased integration. Now we can look forward and see the light in the tunnel. In another part of the country we have heard similar reports. The popular Swedish-Finnish cooperation has created an almost common city of Haparanda and Torneå. The municipalities have merged on common civil protection, cooperation in the field of health care, common language schools and also common golf courses and additional leisure facilities. Of the locals in Haparanda whom I have recently spoken to, I understand that the situation through the border closures that have now gradually been loosened may have created wounds and contradictions that take a long time to heal and bridge. Reports from Åland, which I get through the Swedish-Åland Parliamentary Association, show the problem of lack of freedom of movement for Åland. There too there is a great expectation that there will soon be relief in the restrictions, so that the exchange can continue. As the spread of the disease continues, we have an arduous way forward in common. As I see it, there is no reason to reinforce the nationalism or provincialism that has emerged, but rather to look at the opportunities our Nordic countries have for further development in cooperation, with frequent trade, culture and social exchanges. Madam President, I would like A number of areas of society have also been mentioned here today in order to continue to develop well. The infrastructure is one of these, for example the connections in Öresund between Sweden and Denmark, for which I myself have been involved for several years. At the next session of the Nordic Council, which will be held at the end of this month, questions about cyber threats and the pandemic are in focus. In the Socialist Group in the Nordic Council, we have developed some priority issues to work on, which I would like to emphasise. The issues concern areas such as integrated labour market, joint efforts on innovation and efforts on climate and environment, and in the field of welfare. In January, the Committee on Welfare, myself included, decided to focus on the following issues in the coming year: suicide prevention, gender equality in the labour market, equality in health, metoo and antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic resistance is a work that also needs to be carried out globally, but the Nordic countries can go ahead with knowledge and development. It was already in 2014 that the former Swedish Minister of Social Affairs Bo Könberg presented a report on the importance of combating antibiotic resistance. It is still a priority area where we can make progress through our work and our knowledge. Yes, there are a number of areas to highlight. Perhaps I should also like to emphasise what is happening in the labour market and in working life. It is about digitalisation, about the emergence of the new working life and about what it means for people in everyday life. The conclusion is that the pillars of the Nordic labour and labour market model need to be strengthened and renewed, and we need more tools to prevent segregation. It creates a stronger well-being in the Nordic countries, and through this we can also develop all the other areas in a good spirit of cooperation.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1195	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have repeatedly raised a number of issues which we believe are direct threats to the core values of the Council of Europe. In many cases this has been done together and in agreement with other parties, precisely because we in the Swedish delegation, regardless of party affiliation, have an equally obedient view of the core values of the Council of Europe on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Of course, it is very gratifying that this is the case. Not least in times like the ones we now live in, I hope it will continue. The Council of Europe was formed in 1949 by ten like-minded countries in Western Europe. Sweden was one of these. Since then, cooperation has also increased considerably, and the result is, on the one hand, an increased potential for strengthening important values, and, on the other hand, a difficulty in resisting what we would call evil forces. Unfortunately, democracy is in decline in many places, and we have seen several examples of this. The pandemic has meant that past self-evident freedoms will not necessarily be so anymore. We see how less democratic states take the opportunity to impose disproportionate restrictions on the freedoms of individuals, and there is a clear risk that these states will take advantage of the current situation to limit fundamental rights and freedoms even after the pandemic. In addition, in these times we see tensions that have sadly resulted in full - scale wars. The Member States of Azerbaijan, Turkey and Russia have taken part in military attacks against peaceful and democratically minded Member States, with devastating consequences. Madam President, I would like In these matters, there must be no doubt as to where the Swedish delegation stands. Fortunately, the Swedish position has been compact in terms of support for Ukraine following Russia's involvement in eastern Ukraine and following the occupation of the Crimean Peninsula. As you know, Russia lost its right to vote in the Assembly, which was supported by all Swedish members. This is something that is positive. From our delegation, the consensus was total as to how Russia has acted until the Social Democrats unexpectedly failed by allowing the Russian delegation to regain its powers without concessions. This betrayal was not just morally wrong. Moreover, it has completely undermined the credibility of the Assembly. Madam President, I would like The criminal attacks by Azerbaijan and Turkey against democratically minded Armenia are also a clear example of a conflict in which we, as a delegation, must stand united. There must be no doubt that Armenia has our full support. Madam President, I would like One issue that the Swedish Democrats have actively pursued is the question of combating the spread of sharia in Europe. It is a phenomenon that, sadly, is becoming more common in our societies. And that is something that threatens our whole society, not least sexual minorities and women. In this context, the protection of women is a very important issue in the light of Turkey's decision to leave the Istanbul Convention, which was established in Istanbul and which ironically had Turkey as its first accession country. It cannot be stressed enough how important it is for the Istanbul Convention on violence against women to be successfully implemented in all the Member States, not least in countries such as Turkey, where we see documented cases of this very thing. As a Swedish democrat, it is a matter of course to act against physical, mental and social abuse of women. Sadly, this is a phenomenon which, in many cases, even in Sweden, seems to increase avalanche. Finally, Madam President. In fact, I had the hope that representatives of the government parties in Sweden, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, who claim to stand for both a pro-democracy offensive and a feminist foreign policy, would raise the issue of the Istanbul Convention more. But it may change in the future. Let's hope so. Having said that, I would like to endorse the SD's reservation in the report.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1207	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking the members of the Swedish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for a high level of activity and commitment. In 2020, the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been characterised by the covid-19 pandemic, as well as most of it, in terms of both the forms of cooperation and the political content. Online meetings have worked relatively well, if you ask me. The election of new judges and a secretary-general have also been affected. During the year, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been monitoring and debating the impact of the pandemic on democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the Member States from a number of points of view. It is not least about how it has affected women and minority groups, such as the black and Roma groups. This has affected freedom of movement. You have closed borders. It has affected freedom of assembly. We've seen people who have been arrested by the police while they've been out demonstrating. We have seen people who have been fined, people who have not been able to be at home and work and who have had to be out and who have not been able to observe the restrictions. Issues related to technologies and artificial intelligence have been discussed. Ethnic profiling, using artificial intelligence to profile people, has attracted increased attention in the congregation. The same applies to issues relating to migration, the environment and climate in the area of the Council of Europe. You won't have time to go into all these things, because time isn't enough. However, it is important to mention that this is being discussed and put on the Council of Europe's agenda. We have also seen how EU countries and Sweden opposed the proposed exemption for patents for covid-19 vaccines. It was a proposal presented by South Africa and India. It is about eliminating barriers so that companies can transfer their technology and knowledge to other production facilities. It would then be possible to produce massively all the doses required and thus to vaccinate the world's population as quickly as possible. During the time of the pandemic, we have seen what is called vaccine nationalism, where every country in the West is in any way trying to think about itself and does not think that this is a global pandemic that needs global solutions. Sweden has been one of the countries that did not want to support this. That is regrettable, because there are many European countries that have bought a lot of vaccines, three or four times more than what is needed, while there are poor countries that are unable to have vaccines. Madam President, I would like The discussion in the Assembly has also been marked by the continued relationship with Russia as regards the development of human rights, the constitutional changes and their impact on the enforcement of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, and Russia's policy in its European neighbourhood. In addition to the pandemic, the Assembly's work has also been characterised by discussions and debates on different conflicts between Member States. These are Armenia, which was mentioned here earlier, and Azerbaijan, Ukraine and Russia, the situation in Turkey and Turkey's actions in the neighbourhood and developments in Poland and Belarus. Madam President, I would like Let me mention a little bit about Russia. There is continued broad support for the criticism of Russia for its aggression in eastern Ukraine. The principled criticism of Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea also persists. We agreed as a delegation on this issue. This also applies to Poland. Similarly, the criticism of Poland for the attacks on the right to abortion, the independence of the judiciary, women's sexual and reproductive health and LGBTQ rights persists. Madam President, I would like As the Assembly's general rapporteur for combating racism and intolerance and coordinator of the Assembly's network Parliamentary Alliance against Hate, the issue of racism and hate crime is a central part of my work. That is why, Madam President, I have been tasked with writing a report on afrophobia and a report on Islamophobia, which I am working on right now. We have seen that racism has increased in Europe, in the Member States. In France, for example, we have recently seen laws banning veils affecting Muslim women. We have seen an increase in racism throughout the world, but above all in the Western world. In the shadow of the George Floyd murder in the United States, we have seen how the Black Lives Matter movement has grown in Europe and somehow awakened everyone who did not believe that racism existed in Europe but only in the United States and the other countries. This is particularly true in Sweden. This moves the discussion from saying that racism is not here to saying: What can we do about the racism that exists in Sweden and in Europe? Madam President, I would like Europe and the Council of Europe are still undergoing a trying time in several respects. Developments and adherence to the core values of the Council of Europe – human rights, democracy and the rule of law – remain worrying in a number of areas. Racism, right-wing extremism and xenophobic forces have had a significant impact in several of the 47 Member States. And the Black Lives Matter movement and covid-19 pandemic have further intensified these challenges. Madam President, I would like Gender equality has taken a step backwards under the coronapndemin. The pandemic has reinforced structures of inequality between women and men. Women's unemployment has increased more than men's. In addition, women are less protected than men by social security systems. At the same time, many women work in the healthcare sector, which is under pressure and under pressure during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like The UN estimates that violence against women has increased by 20-30 percent during the pandemic. This includes both violence in close relations and political violence against women. In Sweden, several women's shelters have testified to increased strain. It is therefore important that this issue continues to play a prominent role on the Assembly's agenda. Madam President, I would like The right to health, to their sexuality and to decide over their bodies are fundamental human rights. However, it is a right that is violated and violated in many Member States. Over large parts of the earth people, regardless of gender, face restrictions on sexual and reproductive health and rights. For example, millions of women and girls lack access to contraception. At the same time, 47,000 women and girls are estimated to die annually in connection with unsafe and illegal abortions according to the World Health Organisation. According to the United Nations Population Fund, every two minutes in the world a woman dies of pregnancy or childbirth complications. The absolute majority – 94% – of women affected live in low and middle income countries. One third of all women will experience some form of physical or mental abuse during their lives according to the United Nations Commission on Women, 2020. The Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention, is unique in that it is the first binding regional instrument against violence against women in Europe. It includes provisions on prevention, political responsibility and legislation. The Convention has been signed by 45 States and the EU. Nevertheless, several EU countries have not yet ratified it, including Lithuania, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic. In addition, the Polish Government has announced its intention to withdraw from the Convention. Only a month ago Turkey chose to leave it. There have been reports of men's violence against women in Turkey for several years, and the election to leave the Convention shows that Erdo中an's regime does not take these crimes seriously. The fact that countries are backing away from commitments to protect women from, for example, rape, genital mutilation and forced marriages is serious and worrying. It is clear that the Council of Europe needs to work even more to get all Member States to sign and ratify the Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. A prerequisite for moving forward in this work is also to push for the importance of the right to sexual and reproductive health and rights in the congregation. We must push the issue forward and ensure that it continues to be on the agenda. That is why the Left Party, in accordance with our reservation, believes that Sweden should press for issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights to be given greater scope within the Council of Europe and for all countries that have signed the Istanbul Convention to ratify it. With these words, I would like to call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1229	Madam President, I would like When the Council of Europe was established in 1949 after the Second World War, it was with a conviction that a better world was possible, as well as a Europe that stood up for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. When we stand here today, in June 2021, debating the Council of Europe, I wish I could argue that the work of the last 70 years is unthreated and that the number of democracies and countries working for the core values in Europe has increased. Unfortunately, however, reality is quite different. Today we see how the core values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law are being discussed. Suddenly, the meaning of these concepts is open to interpretation. We see how the space for civil society is being reduced and how hatred and threats against civil society representatives are increasing. We see how war has broken out between Member States, most recently a full-scale war between Armenia and Azerbaijan. We see how LGBT people's rights are being attacked and how homophobia is spreading. We see how the number of democratic countries in Europe and the European Union has decreased since 2006. In fact, according to the business newspaper The Economist's democracy index, no other country in the world has seen a worse development for democracy in the last ten years than Poland and Hungary. Madam President, I would like We also see how reactionary forces have contributed to a stagnation of women's rights in a number of Member States. The Istanbul Convention, which is the first legally binding regional instrument on violence against women in Europe and which aims to protect women and girls from all forms of violence and to prevent, prosecute and eliminate violence against women and domestic violence, is now in question. The Convention was opened for signature at a ministerial meeting in Istanbul in May 2011. Turkey became the first country to sign the Convention. Today, ten years later, there is an imminent risk that Turkey will be the first country to leave the Convention, closely followed by Poland. The Council of Europe must work to ensure that all Member States ratify the Istanbul Convention and that those who have already done so remain in the agreement. The issue of sexual and reproductive health and rights, not least the issue of abortion, has also become highly topical as several countries have chosen to tighten up their legislation and thus deprive women of the right to decide on their own body. In some countries, almost all forms of abortion have been banned. The voice of the Council of Europe must be clearer here. Attack on women's rights is an attack on human rights. Every setback for women's rights should be seen as a warning that worse times, in several respects, are to be expected. The Swedish delegation in the Council of Europe has long been a strong voice for gender equality issues, and our experience and knowledge are constantly being sought. We have to make sure of that. With our Swedish experience, we can both contribute to the development of the gender equality debate and work towards the development of the Council of Europe as an institution in the field, organisationally and politically. Madam President, I would like The list of issues in which developments are going in the wrong direction may be long, but the Council of Europe has the skills and the work needed to support human rights, democracy and the rule of law. In addition, during the pandemic year, the Council of Europe has shown a surprising ability to change and adapt its work to the current circumstances. The parliamentary assembly's committee work, debates and reviews have progressed, and there has been a conviction that the challenges and threats to the core values of the Council of Europe will not wait out the pandemic. They need to be addressed now. Linked to the pandemic, the Council of Europe has also followed the way in which Member States comply with their human rights commitments in the management of measures to reduce the spread of infection. The Parliamentary Assembly has produced a number of reports, recommendations and resolutions in 2020 focusing on the covid-19 pandemic and the importance of maintaining respect for and safeguarding human rights. Madam President, I would like I dare to say that the role of the Council of Europe today is just as important as when the Council was formed. If 1949 was about building a more democratic Europe, it is now more about safeguarding the great progress that has been made and daring to take the debate, review and be critical wherever developments are going in the wrong direction. The Council of Europe is equally important for all Member States – in countries where democracy has not yet gained ground, in countries where democracy is losing ground and in countries where democracy is stable. We need to safeguard the development of the Council of Europe. Democracy and the fight for it can never be taken for granted. The struggle needs to be waged every day, and democracy needs to be conquered every day.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1247	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Rojhan Gustafsson for an interesting speech. We have a lot in common in the Swedish delegation, as I mentioned in my speech. The view of Russia is, as you know, one of the issues in which, in the years we have been represented in the Council of Europe, we have had an equally obedient view. There were many who were shocked almost two years ago when the Social Democrats suddenly changed their feet on the issue of Russia's participation in the delegation. Just weeks before the session, it was said that the Social Democrats naturally maintained the line that Russia would not have the right to vote, as the other parties stood for. Against this background, I raised the issue during last week's current debate on developments in Russia. I then put the question to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde about how she saw her party friends the Social Democrats in the Council of Europe letting Russia back into the heat of the Council of Europe. I quote her answer: in the case of the Council of Europe, it is, of course, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Members of Parliament who sit there who are responsible for their actions. ..................................................... In view of this, Madam President, I would like to ask Mrs Rojhan Gustafsson how she views this.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1252	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Wiechel for this important issue. For us, we began to discuss what has really become different in Russia during the time that Russia has not been a member of the Council of Europe. Do we see any changes? Or is it about those who really need the Council of Europe as an institution to make their voices heard, to feel that they are being backed up for their cause, namely civil society organisations, women's organisations, LGBT people's organisations, journalists, those who are trying to work for another Russia, those who have not been heard all these years? When we discussed what had become different and what had been lost during this time, we realised that by the return of Russia, these voices will at least be heard, and we as an institution can back them up. For this reason and on the basis of the discussions we had with a number of actors from Russia's civil society, among others, we landed in the fact that it was the right decision to allow Russia to return. I agree that this is difficult. It was not an easy decision to make. I cannot even say today that I feel that it is absolutely fantastic to have Russia back in the Council of Europe. But I believe that the price we paid when we were unable to channel civil society votes, journalists' votes, was too high when we kept Russia out of it.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1256	Madam President, I would like It is easy to reason that people have talked to civil society organisations in Russia who think so and so. There are many civil society organisations which think exactly the opposite, which believe that Russia definitely does not deserve a place there. One of the reasons is that Russia has ignored the resolutions that have come from the Council of Europe and what has been said. For me and many others, it feels like the only reason why Russia was welcomed back again is spelled economy. It's about paying enough money to sit there. It is, of course, a system that I cannot accept, that is, that one can buy oneself a place in the Council of Europe that one definitely does not deserve. This is despite the fact that the military has attacked another country, in this case Ukraine, and has a history of human rights violations both inside and outside Russia, where international law is completely ignored. We cannot have a system whereby countries are allowed to buy that freedom to enter the Council of Europe again in that way. Madam President, I would like Should we interpret this as meaning that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Swedish Government and the Social Democrats in the Council of Europe have different views on Russia's being or not being in the Council of Europe?
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1260	Madam President, I would like I mean – and I think my Socialist colleagues in the delegation agree with me – that much could be made more effective in the Council of Europe in order to still have a well-functioning institution but which is doing better economically and without Russia's money. For us, it has never been about the economic part. Just as there are those who speak against, there have also been strong voices that have spoken for the fact that, with Russia coming back, civil society in Russia will be heard better and have backing and support. That's what we picked up on. When we landed in the decision to allow Russia to return, we had had an internal discussion in the delegation and with the Socialist Group in the Council of Europe. How the discussions have gone with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs I really do not know, and so I cannot answer that.
i-f69c2a2c13238947-1263	Madam President, I would like 2020 was also an unusual year in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As has already been mentioned, the work was largely marked by the covid-19 pandemic in terms of the design and content of these meetings. Spring and summer sessions were cancelled, and the autumn session was replaced by an extended standing committee in digital format. The pandemic and its aspects of human rights, democracy and the rule of law were highlighted in a number of reports and debates. The role of the reports is to guide and provide the Member States with tools to ensure that the limits set by the European Convention on Human Rights are not violated. Particular attention was paid to the devastating impact of the pandemic on women's and children's rights. Lockdowns and other restrictions on freedom of movement have resulted in a dramatic increase in family violence against women and children in many countries. Women's right to decide over their sexual and reproductive health has also been restricted due to the pandemic. Countries such as Malta and Poland have used the pandemic as a pretext to further restrict the right to abortion. It was noted that the needs of children and young people during the pandemic have had to stand back, which will have far-reaching repercussions, especially in countries where schools have been kept closed. The lack of social interaction, and the lack of, for example, mentoring assistance, are feared to lead to a large increase in mental illness among children and young people. The pandemic has also highlighted the importance of proportionality in relation to measures that restrict the rights of individuals in order to meet society's need to limit the spread of infection. It is extremely important that the pandemic is not used as a pretext to weaken democracy and restrict human rights. Furthermore, it is important that all restrictive measures are time-limited and that the decision-making processes that have led to them are transparent. It is also worth recalling that democracy and human rights are not a luxury for good, problem-free times; on the contrary, they are most needed and must be defended at most during times of crisis. Madam President, I would like It is no exaggeration to say that 2020 was a dark year for human rights. Another armed conflict, or rather a regular war, broke out between Azerbaijan and Armenia in Nagorno-Karabakh with devastating consequences for the region and for the thousands of people who were forced to flee. Both before and after the signing of the Tripartite Agreement on 9 November, the President of Azerbaijan has devoted himself to humiliating Armenians in official speeches and in the media, which is totally unacceptable by a country that is a member of the Council of Europe. Armenian prisoners of war are held in Baku under very bad conditions, despite the fact that the tripartite agreement provides for an exchange of prisoners and that this unworthy treatment flagrantly violates the Convention on Human Rights. Despite calls from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the inflamed rhetoric and degrading acts continue, most recently with the opening of a park in Baku with an exhibition of war trophies and parodic, racist depictions of Armenian soldiers. Madam President, I would like Although Belarus is not a member of the Council of Europe, the disastrous situation in the country must be mentioned, not least because the actions of the dictator Lukasjenko threaten the whole of Europe. The suppression of an aircraft a few weeks ago shows that there are no barriers to his efforts to silence the opposition. It is terrible that only 600 miles from here there is a brutal oppression of the Belarussian people. Since the manipulated presidential elections last August, the human rights situation has completely collapsed. Brutal interventions take place daily. Thousands of people have been thrown into prison under inhumane conditions. Laws freeing police and other uniformed personnel from liability when harming demonstrators have been adopted. Last September, the Bureau expressed the delegation's protest against the reprisals in Belarus to the country's ambassador at a meeting in Parliament. Little did we know that, in the meantime, business was being discussed with the dictatorship, which would be guaranteed with Swedish taxpayers' money via the Export Council. This is a very embarrassing circumstance for the government that we Moderates expect will be thoroughly investigated. Madam President, I would like As long as Russia holds the dictator Lukasjenko under its arms, EU sanctions will be ineffective. Supporting a dictatorship is fully in line with Russia's actions in general. It has been the subject of debate for the last seven years, since the country invaded Crimea and launched the aggression in Donbass. Nor have human rights violations in their own country been reduced, and Russia is still the counterpart in most pending cases in the European Court of Human Rights – more specifically in 22% of cases. The situation of those who pursue cases against Russia is further complicated by the fact that Russia reserves the right to decide whether the court rulings are contrary to the Russian Constitution. This has been in force since 2015, but was granted constitutional status in December 2020. That is why opposition politician Aleksej Navalnyj is being held in prison despite the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. Otherwise, the poisoning of Navalnyj with the nerve gas poison novitjok is a school example of how for the regime unpleasant people are treated in Russia. They are murdered like Nemtsov, Politkovskaja and Magnitsky. Madam President, I would like There is a saying: The dogs bark, but the caravan moves on. It is increasingly felt that this proverb describes the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Reports are written, countries that violate human rights are condemned in debates and resolutions are adopted, but then nothing happens. Rather, there will be more countries that ignore the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly. The question of whether these countries should continue to be guaranteed membership is therefore very justified. It has been expressed that membership of the Council of Europe benefits the citizens of countries with highly dubious democracies – so as not to call them autocracies or pure dictatorships – and that these countries should therefore not be excluded. But reality shows something else. Countries such as Russia, Turkey, Azerbaijan and others are only increasing the repression of their citizens. This undermines the credibility of the Council of Europe. Is it not better, then, for the Council of Europe to become an organisation for democracies? Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the members of the delegation for their work in the respective committee, for their important efforts as rapporteurs and, not least, for their involvement in the debates and in the digital meetings that we have had at home. Many thanks also to Petra Sjöström and Johanna Ingvarsson at the Riksdag International Office for their invaluable support!
