i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-0	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I view the development of national guidelines and programmes for the treatment of adults who have been sexually abused in childhood. She has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that knowledge-based care is made available to adults who have been sexually abused in childhood, including incest and exposure to paedophile networks and trafficking. Finally, she has asked me how I intend to work to ensure that national guidelines and programmes are developed for the treatment of children who have been sexually abused. Work to prevent, detect and combat all forms of violence against children is a priority for the government. Therefore, on 29 April 2021, the Government appointed a special investigator to submit a proposal for a comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression. The investigator shall identify deficiencies and measures to prevent, inter alia, violence against children, detection and protection, support and treatment for children who have experienced violence. The strategy will address the many forms of violence that children and young people of different ages may be exposed to today, such as violence in close relations, sexual violence, violence between children and honour-related violence and repression. The investigator shall report on his/her duties by 31 May 2022. Healthcare plays an important role for patients, including children who have been victims of sexual violence. It is partly about discovering the existence of violence and sexual violence, and partly about providing care and treatment based on the best possible knowledge. According to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general guidelines (SOSFS 2014:4), each care provider must also establish procedures for developing and securing the quality of work with victims of violence and children who have witnessed violence. This includes compliance with the notification obligation. In addition, the healthcare provider must ensure that the staff in healthcare activities have knowledge of violence and abuse in order to provide good care and have the ability to translate knowledge into practical work. The responsibility of the health service also includes that the person seeking the services of the health care service after having been exposed to violence, but who also needs other support, is referred to the body or bodies competent to meet the patient's needs. An important part of this work is to continue to improve knowledge about violence and sexual violence in healthcare. In particular, the Government has identified care for sexually assaulted persons as a focus area in the egg agreement in women's health and maternity care in 2021 – 2022. The aim is for victims of sexual violence to have access to good care based on the best possible knowledge. Actions are also carried out within the framework of the agreement in the field of mental health and suicide prevention. In addition, the Council for 2020 and 2021 has granted the fundraising foundation W onsa funds to develop and disseminate an educational material on how to respond to, assess and treat people who have said ts for sexual crimes. I will continue to follow this issue closely and work to ensure that victims of sexual violence have access to good care based on the best possible knowledge.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-5	Madam President, I would like I have received an answer from the Minister to one in three questions. The only thing the Minister says about adults is that there is more education in this area, which is not true. Rise has sent out a question to 800 health care establishments if they are interested in participating in training courses. Only 4 businesses have replied that there is interest. The regulations of the National Board of Health and Welfare say things, but reality shows that what regulations say clearly does not affect reality. Ellencentrum, organisation # intedinhora and Child10 have together conducted a survey of the support available for children, young people and adults with experience in prostitution, human trafficking for sexual purposes and other commercial sexual exploitation. I would like to use a quote from there that shows how inadequate care is for people who have been subjected to sexual abuse: I feel that everyone saw it as a behavioral disorder I had rather than a vulnerability. Psychopathy and nymphomania have occurred in my journal notes because of my sex selling. During 2020, the highest number of rapes against children was reported so far, 16 per cent more than in 2019. In 2014, the General Barnhuset Foundation's survey showed that 20 per cent of all children are victims of sexual offences. According to the latest survey from August 2021, the figure is now up to 25 per cent. Instead of 4 young children in a preschool group of 20 children, they are now up to 5 young children who are victims of sexual abuse. All these children will grow up if they survive, that is. Sexual offences cause serious health damage. Rape is the trauma that usually leads to PTSD and has the strongest link to suicide, suicidal thoughts and self-harm behaviour. The consequences are a changed life with varying degrees of pain, fatigue and mental illness. And let's be clear that if you've been sexually abused in childhood, you're 12 times more likely to commit suicide in adulthood. There is also a risk of continued sexual abuse – one becomes an open target for several other perpetrators when the protection mechanisms have disappeared in childhood. Madam President, I would like There is a great risk that this will be the consequences precisely for being exposed as a child. The right to the best possible health is a human right – even for victims of sexual abuse. Sexual crimes affect everyone, but women and girls are in the absolute majority of those affected. Ninety-eight percent of those suspected of sexual crimes are men. This makes sexual abuse one of the biggest gender equality problems. Already in 2013, the WHO defined sexual abuse as a global threat to public health and human rights requiring urgent action. The Istanbul Convention and the Lanzarote Convention, which Sweden has ratified, provide for access to trauma support and specialised support services for sexual offenders throughout the country. In January 2019 Sweden and the Minister for Social Affairs received strong criticism from the Council of Europe expert group Grevio due to lack of access to specialised trauma treatment for sexual offenders. I would like better answers to what the government is doing in this area.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-14	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to both Marléne Lund Kopparklint and everyone who listens to this debate that there is no disagreement whatsoever on my part that these are hideous crimes. These are abuses that must be countered in every way so that they do not happen. That is what we want to achieve in the first place. However, we know that men's violence against women causes suffering which, of course, is linked to health care, to its response, and which has a major impact on the lives of these girls and women. This is also why the government has been working very hard for many years and in various ways with national strategies regarding men's violence against women and resources for women's health. Nevertheless, I would like to remind Marléne Kopparklint that it is not the state that organises the reception of health care around the country. However, the National Board of Health and Welfare must of course ensure that there is support and regulations to be followed. On the interpellant, it sounds like there are regulations, to which I refer, but they are not being followed. In this House we are deciding on legislation, which is followed by regulations from the authorities. The starting point, of course, is that these are being followed. If it is difficult to follow them and there is a lack of resources, there is a need for additional funding. If the material needs to be prepared better, we have to do it. On behalf of the government, SKR was commissioned to map how healthcare can be strengthened in order to better meet the needs of victims of sexual violence. The report was published at the beginning of the pandemic, in June 2020, so it did not get the attention it deserved. However, it shows that there are many important possibilities for improvement, and the mapping is used as a basis for further work. This is also the reason for what I described in my interpellation response – that the agreement that exists on women's health and maternity care receives an addition to the agreement that is drawn up for the coming year, with the aim of allowing victims of sexual violence access to good care based on the best possible knowledge. There is also a major investment in mental health – 2.2 billion annually. In particular, there are also measures that increase the possibility of trauma care and treatment. There are means available to support the development of health and care work in relation to men's violence against women and honour-related violence in order to increase knowledge. I am not going to go into so much with the Sex Crimes Act and the sharpened penalties, but it is clear that all of this is connected when it comes to ensuring that we do everything we can to reduce the risk of girls and women being subjected to violence. I would like to draw attention to a part of the budget that has just been presented, namely a proposal on trace securing in the event of sexual offences, which is also very important. Being able to receive the girls or women who have suffered sexual crimes and be able to secure traces and evidence at an early stage can be very crucial for moving forward. Funds are allocated to this. Then there is always a discussion about whether to have national programmes. If Marléne Lund Kopparklint wants there to be some kind of national care programme, it is the regions that are preparing those programmes. I am not saying this because I do not want to draw up a national health programme, but that is still what it looks like. On the other hand, support of all kinds, as well as the agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, helps to develop the programme and know that the resources needed to complete it are available.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-24	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister where questions end up if it does not work out in the regions or when people end up between the chairs, as many do. If it isn't in Parliament, I don't know where. The argument that the government must not regulate the regions in detail does not hold up. I think the Minister knows that, too. The regions of Sweden do not have the tools to deal with the issue in a patient-proof way. One sign of this is that there are more than 1 000 sex offenders in line to receive adequate care and treatment, only in Stockholm. There is also a lack of requirements in terms of the type of education that will provide the increase in knowledge that is so clearly needed and demanded, and as the Minister says there is. But it doesn't. Sweden today has a single specialist clinic for adults who have been sexually abused in childhood; it is Wonsa. I think that Gita Rajan and those who work there also want answers to the questions I have asked. The pressure on that business is enormous. We're talking about human lives here. As I said earlier, the risk of suicide is twelve times higher for people who have been victims of sexual crimes. With this negative development, it is now important to pull these issues out of the corner and seriously start talking about them in order to bring about a change. Children should be protected from being subjected to all forms of crime. But there is also a need for major changes in society and the law. One would never accept whether a region decided not to offer emergency rooms or not to have orthopedic specialist clinics. Why, then, should we accept that there are no specialist clinics for sexual offences in the 21 regions of the country, especially since 85 out of 349 MPs – adults – have been statistically exposed to sexual offences in childhood? The special investigator the minister is talking about, yes, what can I say? Combating and preventing the problem of the treatment of those who have already been exposed does not solve it. Identifying shortcomings and proposing measures is good for children, but what about the adults who have been exposed? In accordance with the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations, the Minister is ripping up what each care provider should develop and quality-proof. What does this really say, in reality? As much as my own regulations that I'm going to be a billionaire next year. When it comes to ensuring that the healthcare provider has a knowledge of violence and abuse, how should the care provider ensure this when there is a lack of initial education, training and specialist training in the field? It is great that regulations exist, but it is also important to check that they are followed out in the country. If they are not followed, action is needed which the Minister does not give any examples of. The responsibility of the healthcare service also includes that the person seeking health care services after being exposed to violence but also needs other support should be referred to the body or bodies with the skills that meet the patient's needs. There is a lack of a whole chain of care for sexually traumatized patients, so where should these patients in need of special care be referred to? I would like an answer to that from the Minister, which unfortunately I did not receive. The criticism that Sweden has received from Grevio includes precisely this. There should be specialized receptions in Sweden.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-35	Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe expert group Grevio makes recommendations. Of course, when it comes to exactly how to organise this, things are different in different countries. Exactly what it would look like is Marléne Lund Kopparklint's own interpretation. Nevertheless, I think I started by saying quite clearly that this is a very important area; there is no doubt about it. But it is not easy to discuss with an interpellant in the Swedish Parliament who thinks that the regulations of the authorities are not worth much. That is how we govern this country – through legislation in Parliament and regulations from the authorities. As far as health care is concerned, the regions are not a bit responsible, such as 20-30%, but are fully responsible. The responsibility of the state is, of course, to ensure that we have legislation that is to the fullest. Of course, changes should be made to the Health Care Act if necessary. It is about training and ensuring that the authority is supported and in turn providing the regions with the necessary support. However, I object to the fact that the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations in this area are being waved away, as if they were not worth so much. They are; that's why we make decisions about them, usually on the basis of proposals that this Parliament has decided on. The supplementary agreement on women's health and maternity care that we have had for a few years– we have signed a new agreement for the coming year– provides, among other things, for the regions to ensure that there is a clear chain of care for people who have been subjected to sexual violence or genital mutilation. As with everything else in society, this does not mean that from one day to another and from one year to another we are in goal with very difficult societal challenges. Unfortunately, men's violence against women is something that exists in a society that is not fully equal. There is a reason why the current government not only has a feminist foreign policy but also works very much on gender issues. Marléne Lund Kopparklint will be happy to use her last speech to talk about what should be done in this area to solve the problem, alongside training, supplementary agreements, legislation, penalties and ten-year strategies. I mean that a lot is going on, but I do not want to give the impression that this is easy to do. If care is not fully functioning, we must make it work, and it is not done by the Swedish Parliament.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-41	Madam President, I would like Not only does the Minister not answer my questions, she also goes untruthful! I have not said that regulations are not important, but if they are not complied with, they will not be important to those who need care or when the necessary care does not exist. Madam President, I would like I have also done some research on this with funds granted to Wonsa. I think it is important for those who are watching the debate to know the truth behind the Minister's words. The material that was developed and tested in 2020 has received the highest grade, but when it was supposed to be disseminated now in 2021, no region has considered itself able to prioritise education in either primary care or psychiatry. Wonsa has contacted all regions and those responsible for all primary care and psychiatry and only received a single registration of interest and no booking. Rise has sent out 800 files of information during the year, as I said earlier. Increased knowledge without adapted structure is not enough. It doesn't matter if all personnel at Ica get training in changing tires if they don't have a workshop. They don't know what to do if they don't get to practice it. Then you don't have the practical basic knowledge. I will also continue to follow the issue and work to ensure that people who have been victims of sexual violence have access to good care based on the best possible knowledge. I know another person who will also do so and who is watching this debate together with several thousand others, and that is the one who has been subjected to sexual crimes and has not received treatment. What we now need to do is to carry out what we have said and really take this education and knowledge seriously. It's real.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-47	Madam President, I would like I can assure everyone who is watching the debate that this is a high priority for the Swedish Government. That is why there is a strategy that is not just about health care but about all areas of society that contribute positively or negatively to women not being able to feel safe and subjected to violence, which in turn leads to them needing the right care. Once again, I would like to say that the dialogue with Sweden's municipalities and regions continues. I would say that there is a lot of knowledge. You do things differently, but I'm not saying we can't do any more. It hasn't been my message in any of my lines. The supplementary agreement now signed states that the regions must ensure that there is a clear chain of care for people who have been victims of sexual violence or genital mutilation. One should learn from one another between the regions, where some have gone ahead. It looks a little different because the regions are different in size, and it has also met to varying degrees the women we are talking about in this interpellation debate. Long-term strategic work is, of course, absolutely central to what is being done every day in health care, with all the skills that are there. It needs to be coordinated and systematised, and one needs to learn from one another. We have certainly not put an end to this, and the last initiative has not been taken, but this is an area of reform where things are constantly going on. I'd really like to say that.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-52	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to act in favour of developing national guidelines for healthcare for the treatment of children with obesity. She has also asked how I have acted to reduce childhood obesity in Sweden. Finally, she has asked whether I intend to take any further action to reduce children's obesity in Sweden. To slow down the development of overweight and obesity, long-term preventive work is needed at local, regional and national level. The work needs to be carried out by a number of actors and sectors in society, ranging from pre-school, school and working life to health care, transport, the food industry and civil society. There are great differences between the different groups in the population in terms of both lifestyle and illness in the major diseases. Research shows that socio-economically vulnerable groups eat less and are more affected by cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, cancer and obesity. These differences need to be addressed and taken into account in all sectors and at all levels. With its public health policy proposal, the Government wants to encourage all actors to actively work to promote good and equal health and promote the Government's goal of creating social conditions for good and equal health throughout the population and closing the avoidable health gaps within a generation. The bill is a holistic approach within the framework of the Government's public health work. Several ministries and authorities are involved. For example, school has great opportunities to promote healthy living habits for all children and young people and to reduce social differences in health. With regard to the issue of national guidelines for the treatment of children with obesity, I would like to refer to the ongoing work of the National Board of Health and Welfare on national guidelines for obesity care. There, the National Board of Health and Welfare will make recommendations to the health care services regarding certain studies and treatments for children and adults who have obesity. It is not yet determined in detail what studies or treatments the National Board of Health and Welfare will make recommendations on. The plan is for the guidelines to be published shortly. Healthcare plays an important role in prevention in meeting patients who need support in their lifestyles. This is evident not least in the National Board of Health's National Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Unhealthy Life Habits, where discussions about food, smoking, risk consumption of alcohol and inadequate physical activity are important elements. The government has judged that there is a need for a social pool of forces to reverse the development of overweight and obesity. A committee has therefore been tasked with increasing the general knowledge of the positive effects of physical activity on the individual and mobilising and involving relevant actors in society. The mission shall be reported by 1 March 2023 at the latest. The Swedish Food Authority has the Government's mission to promote good eating habits. Within the Swedish Food Administration there is a national competence centre for meals within health care, school and care, which supports municipalities and regions in their development of public meals. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Food Safety Agency, together with the life medium industry, to create the conditions for an agreement to reduce the salt and sugar content of food. The Authority will also develop knowledge on how the intake of energy-tight and nutritional poor food can be reduced. In the case of sugar-sweetened foods, work should focus mainly on children and young people. The mission will run until 2023. The aim is to reduce the consumption of salt, sugar and other low-energy food products by the population together with the food industry. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish Food Safety Agency to develop proposals for national targets with indicators to provide a clear focus for the work on sustainable and healthy food consumption, a task that the Swedish Food Safety Agency and the Swedish Public Health Agency will report by 31 January 2022.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-61	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Overweight is when a child weighs so much that it can be unhealthy. Excessive obesity is called obesity and is a disease. Children who have too much weight need to change their habits in order to lose weight. The number of obese children has increased sharply in recent decades. The statistics are quite uncertain, because not everyone is looking for help. However, it is estimated that between 5 and 10 per cent of all children in Sweden today suffer from morbidity. These are very many children, Madam President. Here in Stockholm, the so-called Stop study shows that overweight and obesity among seven-year-olds in the county have increased from 8 to 20 percent since 1989, and 70 – 80 percent of them remain overweight. Obesity has a negative effect on health and quality of life. Children with obesity suffer from high blood pressure and the pre-stage of type 2 diabetes, but also mental illness. The prognosis for overweight children is quite poor. About 80 percent of children who are overweight in their six to seven years of age are still overweight in their upper teens. It has been estimated in the United States that at a Bmi of 45 at the age of 20, the life expectancy of men is reduced by 13 years and by eight years for women. To slow down the development of overweight and obesity, long-term national preventive work is required locally, regionally and nationally, just as the Minister was concerned. Swedish Radio reported earlier this autumn that despite the severe consequences of obesity, there are currently no guidelines for how children with obesity should be taken care of in healthcare. I think it's strange. However, what the Minister is saying about the fact that there are now guidelines in the pipeline, I think is a good thing. But why has it taken so long, and why is it still not done? Madam President, I would like This government has soon reigned for eight years. I think about how many children have gone without real help during that time. Eight years is quite a long time if you are eight years old – hips are 16 years old. I think about how many parents have worn their hair during this time. For them, eight years is also a very long time. Many eat too much and move too little. More and more people are sitting still a lot, partly because they are looking at different types of screens. As a parent, it can be very difficult to help your child lose weight. You also don't want to put barbecues in your child's head so that it gets eating disorders. What exactly does the parental allowance look like? If there are no guidelines for care, you can quickly figure out that very many people do not receive the care to which they are entitled. The fact that we do not have equal care throughout the country is strange and shameful. Madam President, I would like We are not supposed to be able to give these children and parents the right care and support throughout the country, are we?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-72	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for the question. It's very relevant. That is precisely why we work with it on many different fronts. Then the Alexandra Anstrell party had eight years to produce the national guidelines or to present a public health policy bill which demonstrates an understanding of the importance of the socio-economic factors. There wasn't one either. During the time that this government has ruled, we have, among other things, developed a broad public health policy bill to have as a basis for all the work that we do. We know that what we are talking about right now, child obesity, is an example of how socio-economic factors play a role and how public health is not equal in the country. In many ways, how can we ensure that children and young people grow up with good conditions so that they can live long and healthy lives? And how do we meet the adult population, where there is also unequal health in many parts? If it is strange that this is not yet there, I do not know. This does not mean that the regions do not work to combat the obesity of children and young people and that they do not have an intensive job. But when it comes to developing the national guidelines, the National Board of Health and Welfare will soon arrive. I understand that they will publish a referral version on December 14th. There is now a committee that has been working for more than a year, a year and a half, with physical activities throughout the population in order to appreciate the importance and importance of it. Of course, the mission to the Finnish Food Authority to reduce the salinity and sugar content of food is also important. Since SKR can never stand in this speaker's chair, I will tell you that they have a national working group on the treatment of obesity in children and young people. It is a work that takes place in close dialogue with the National Board of Health and Welfare. I also know that regions, if it is half of the regions or seven eight, have started work on prevention of childhood obesity through innovation programmes. So they work around the country. Our ambition is to take a concerted approach both with the Public Health Bill, which will frame what we do, and with the work that both the National Board of Health and the Swedish Food and Welfare Agency do. We can stand here and discuss: What should be done? And why doesn't everyone just do that? Why do people smoke when they know it's dangerous? How are we doing the preventive work? We need to work on many different fronts to strengthen public health – there is no doubt about that. However, as I began by saying, I think it is very good that Alexandra Anstrell is raising this particular issue. Much is being done, but it is challenging and difficult. Of course school matters. For example, I think that school meals are an important part. This has been the case in Sweden for a long time. There is access to school food, and it has a good composition. I don't think we can emphasize that enough. It is one way to ensure that students get a meal a day that is also well composed and composed. I will end by saying in this post that the Swedish Public Health Agency is looking at various indicators to measure Swedish public health. The indicators are updated every two years. One of them is overweight and obesity. It is about us being able to follow this and see what it is that seems to have an effect.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! Children with obesity have three times the risk of dying already in early adulthood as children in the general population and a higher risk of anxiety and depression. They also develop vascular diseases and diabetes. One study found that obesity was linked to an increased risk of developing anxiety and depression in children and adolescents. Girls with obesity were 43 percent more likely to suffer anxiety and depression than girls in the general population, while boys with obesity were 33 percent more likely to suffer than other boys. So it's four out of ten girls and three out of ten boys. The study was based on over 12,000 children between 6 and 17 years of age treated for obesity who were compared with a matched group of 60,000 children in the general population. More and more children and young people in Sweden report mental illness. Since the mid-80s, the proportion of young people reporting recurrent psychosomatic symptoms has doubled, and nearly half of 15-year-olds have this type of disorder. The proportion of children and young people treated for depression and anxiety disorder is increasing, and there are considerably more girls and young women than boys and young men receiving treatment. There are major regional differences in the treatment and treatment of psychiatric conditions and diseases. At least it comes out in a report from the National Board of Health and Welfare. Madam President, I would like In this area too, we are talking about major differences across the country. Is it not the intention that we should have equal care throughout Sweden? It is a long country, but we should still be able to ensure that we receive equal care. Can there be a connection between these two things – the unequal care in terms of obesity and the unequal care in terms of mental illness? Is it that you can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't handle this part? I don't know if the minister can fill in there. The biggest increase in mental illness is that of women who have just become of age, 18 years old. What happens when you turn 18? Well, you're actually left to do everything yourself. Then no parent can help. It is not easy to take responsibility and get help on time when you may not feel well. In a national survey of the occurrence of self-harm in children's and young people's psychiatry, it appears that self-harm behaviour is very common in secondary school pupils. 47.2 percent of all those involved in the study had at some point done some kind of self - injury. Above all, it was young women. 73.8 percent had responded in this study that they had some form of self-harm. Madam President, I would like It feels a bit like it is running in several different directions and that the government is actually one step behind.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-90	Madam President, I would like Now the interpellation is not about child obesity and the connection to mental health. Honestly, I'm not quite sure how clean all the connections are. I realise, of course, that there is a great risk that those suffering from obesity, who have been doing so for many years and who feel that they do not receive the necessary support and care can develop mental illness. But I don't think it's that simple. We can look at mental illness. Why is it increasing in society? I think there are many different bottoms. I've had reason to think about it before. I would say that mental illness is perhaps the major public health illness of our time or our major public health problem. For some, it is a disease, a diagnosis, that makes them unable to work. For others, it is something that they may go along with even if they can make their everyday lives work, but with a much lower quality of life. There is a significantly higher proportion of women, not least in care for the elderly and the like, who are on sick leave on grounds of mental illness compared to many others. The loneliness and isolation of the elderly are not just a result of the pandemic. It has been seen over time that many older ones experience the increased loneliness that comes with age. When friends and family members, spouse or partner fall away, it can be very difficult to handle. But if we're going to focus on what's child obesity, I still want to say something. Work to improve public health requires that the socio-economic factors be seen. It is not only so that we have greater challenges in some regions than in others and that it is about how to control, what kind of care you offer or how you have organized school health care. It's not that simple. There are, I mean, parts in each region where you have it obviously tougher with difficult challenges, and it often coincides with another exclusion. Health programmes and national guidelines from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare are important things, and the mission of the Swedish Food Authority, together with the food industry, to create the conditions for an agreement to reduce the salt and sugar content of food is also very important. I think everyone recognizes: you go shopping and you're fascinated by how the giant soda bottle can be cheaper than the equivalent amount of milk or anything else that's useful. Why is fruit expensive? Why is there added sugar in ketchup and so on? It also turns out that even if you think you're drinking the same soda – I won't say a name, but it's a soda that exists in many different countries – it doesn't always taste the same, and that's because you have rules on how much sugar there is in products. So it does not have to be in a certain way, but we have every opportunity to try to influence this. I think that plays a very big role. Although everyone makes their choice of what products and what foods they are buying, it is reasonable that we should do our best to ensure that the alternatives available do not have sugar and salt additives unnecessarily. This affects health, not least when it comes to overweight and obesity. Much of the habits are established early, so it is of course important that parents know and think about this. School also plays an important role in school health care conversations, school meals, and much more. As I said, there are several different parts of this: committees, mandates to authorities and a comprehensive bill.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-98	Madam President, I would like I agree with what the Minister talked about in his previous speech, about school food and how important it is. A lot of children actually have an involuntary 5:2 diet, that is, they get nice food five days a week but not the other two. There are also witnesses from many school chefs that there is more school food on Mondays than the rest of the day. We simply have many children who are not feeling well. Socioeconomic factors can certainly record, but how does the Minister think that this would be compensated in the various guidelines she has talked about will be developed? I think the prognosis is pretty bad for children with obesity, and it has deteriorated all the time. Thus, about 80 percent of children between the ages of six and seven become overweight in their late teens, and that is also where we can see mental illness. The Minister was aware that there may not be a typical connection. Maybe it doesn't have a connection, maybe it does. I still think that seven out of ten girls feel bad at secondary school age, and there are no guidelines either for obesity or mental illness. This is not the way we can actually have it. I'm thinking the kids are kids right now. In eight years, most of these children will soon grow up. Nor do we need to involve any previous government. Eight years, as I said, is a very long time, and the government has soon ruled for eight years. How long will it then take before the guidelines are in place and actually used out in the different places? I think the government is betraying these children.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-102	Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, the government presented the major public health policy bill to close the irreversible health gaps within a generation. It was not because we felt it was urgent to drag on to work but to show that it takes time to change this type of extensive structure in society. There are very strong socio-economic factors when we look at both childhood obesity – as in this case – as well as how to eat and live, whether parents work, what income they have and how they think when it comes to cooking at home. Alexandra Anstrell described earlier what we all know, namely that not all children have the same conditions. They may not get a cooked meal at home every day and so on. So there's a lot to work with, and that bill frames the work and sets a very high level of ambition that's where we're going. The national guidelines are important for health care providers and for all regions, but I know and assume that the regions are working on. It is not that you do nothing and wait for guidelines. However, it is very good, when you have worked on and know that there are very many different experiences, to gather what is the best knowledge simply in order to be able to guide in a better way. The Committee for the Promotion of Increased Physical Activity will work broadly and has a mission to reach out to civil society and peoples' movement organisations, and of course cooperates with sports organisations. But perhaps the most important thing is not to reach those who are already involved in a sports organization and train a few times a week, but on the contrary to reach very many of those that you do not reach easily. This is one of the Committee's tasks, and I know that they are working on and, of course, hope that they will succeed in that time. This is an important area, and the socio-economic differences that exist in our society are also visible on such an issue as childhood obesity.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-108	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell has asked me what I am doing to disseminate knowledge among decision-makers and other relevant bodies in the university and higher education system and to inform about the security risks that exist in cooperation with dictatorships and their representatives. Furthermore, Joar Forssell has asked me what other measures the government is taking and what other comments I would like to make on the matter. I cannot go into more detail on the individual cases highlighted, as the interpellier also shows understanding, but today's discussion should be conducted at a more general level. Sweden should be an open country that promotes close contact with other countries and people, including researchers and students. An extensive international presence with cooperation and research exchange with other countries is an important basis for the strong political, technological and scientific position that Sweden has in the world. In order for Sweden to develop and strengthen its position as a leading knowledge nation, continued openness to the outside world is needed. At the same time, transparency requires both awareness of security threats and risks and systematic work to counter them. In order to strengthen security, a new security law has been developed by the Government and applies since 2019 after it has been adopted by the Riksdag. As authorities, universities and higher education institutions are independently responsible for the activities of one of the individual higher education institutions. This also applies to the safety work, as well as the work on safety protection issues within which higher education institutions have the responsibility to comply with the laws and regulations that apply. The Security Service, Säpo, is the supervisory authority on security issues, and the higher education institutions have regular contact with Säpo if necessary. Säpo has carried out several efforts to raise awareness and awareness of the security-threatening activities that are underway against Sweden. Among other things, a targeted effort has been made to security managers and staff from universities and colleges in collaboration with the Swedish Defence University. The Government systematically works in close dialogue with the higher education institutions to monitor their safety work through the framework of ongoing governance, for example in the annual government dialogues. During the spring of 2020, I took further initiatives to contact the higher education institutions to emphasise the importance of active protection work. Also in the Government's research policy bill (prop. 2020/ 21:60) underlines the importance of safe management of worthwhile research activities. Sweden should be an open country. Sweden should also be a safe and secure country. A threat to the security of the country should be dealt with and actively combated. The government submitted a stronger protection for Sweden's security (p. 2020/ 21:194). It proposes more stringent requirements for current activities in connection with procurement, the establishment of contracts and other forms of cooperation that expose their sensitive activities to external actors. J ust now the government is working to develop a new national security strategy. The work of the Council on these issues continues, as has been said, unabated.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-116	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me what measures I have taken to counter the negative developments that are now taking place in the Swedish labour market. During the pandemic, the government has made historically significant efforts to increase the number of unemployed people in employment and education. The Swedish economy has recovered stronger than expected, which among other things the government's actions contributed to. Not least the possibility of short-term work has helped to save Swedish jobs and companies. The budget investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. More than SEK 2 billion is invested to increase the number of participants in labour market training, procured matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. In the Government's spring change budget for 2021, an additional SEK 448 million was allocated for more unemployed people to participate in a matching service, an extra service or an introduction job. Although entry into the labour market has been faster for newcomers in recent years compared to ten years ago, the level of ambition has been further increased. In the autumn of 2020, the Swedish Public Employment Service commissioned the Swedish Public Employment Service to introduce the intensive year from 15 April 2021. The aim is for the participants to come to work within a year. It also works to introduce start-up jobs in accordance with the proposals of the parties. Through start-up jobs, the state will stimulate the creation of jobs for newcomers and the long-term unemployed, in order to increase their chances of employment and their permanent establishment in the labour market. Many unemployed people lack the skills needed to enter the labour market. The government has taken steps to increase the number of unemployed with educational needs to study. In November 2020, the government expanded the opportunity for the unemployed to study with continued activity support. The Government has also decided that study start-up support during 2021 should be provided to those who are registered as job seekers at Arbetsförmedlingen, regardless of how long the person has been unemployed. In June 2021, the opportunity to study part-time alongside participation in the Job and Development Guarantee was also extended. The Swedish economy continues to recover, and many return to work. In order to train for the future labour market, the government initiated the knowledge transfer, an extension of training places – including student support – in Komvux, the University of Applied Sciences, the Folkhögskolan and the University. In 2021, the total investment corresponds to 150 000 training places. The labour market situation has improved and employment has increased in the first half of this year. In the future, it is estimated that employment will continue to rise and unemployment will decrease. At the same time, too many people are at risk of falling into long-term unemployment. This is why the government proposes to strengthen employment policy by SEK 8 billion in 2022, so that everyone can take Sweden forward after the pandemic.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-124	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Employment. Prior to the 2014 elections, Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020. Now we know how it went. Swedish unemployment has developed alarmingly since 2014, and Sweden is one of the countries that has actually managed the worst with jobs during the pandemic. Today, only three EU countries have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. So Sweden is really not the best, but we are in place 24 out of 27 countries. Moreover, we now have higher unemployment than the EU average – something that has never happened before since we joined the EU in 1995, regardless of government. As if this were not enough, we now also have record long-term unemployment: almost 200 000 Swedes have been unemployed for over a year. That is the highest figure recorded in our country. During the moderate-led alliance government, Sweden had the highest employment rate throughout the EU, and this was also true during the financial crisis. This top position has been retained by Sweden – until now. Sweden is now slipping down in these statistics as well. Between 2014 and 2020, Sweden had the second worst employment performance in the EU as a whole; only Romania was worse. In the latest Eurostat figures, Sweden is no longer the best in the EU in terms of employment rates either. Madam President, I would like What has happened to Swedish jobs in the last seven years is simply not good enough. In fact, everything has gone in the wrong direction in the Swedish labour market since 2014, and this applies both during a strong boom and during the pandemic. This costs Swedish taxpayers huge sums of money. If Sweden had only had the same labour market development as the EU average, public finances would have been strengthened by as much as 42 billion a year. It is money that could have strengthened welfare, police and security and created room for reduced taxes. The Minister for Labour's response lists mainly old so-called labour market policies and programmes, and speaks of historically large investments. Unfortunately, however, we have had this negative development despite all the government's programmes and billions of dollars. Government policy is clearly not working, and more of the medicine that has not worked is hardly the way forward. Again: What has happened to Swedish jobs in the last seven years is simply not good enough. Sweden needs a new, moderate-led government that gives hope back to all those who are currently outside the labour market. I find that hope hard to see that today's government can create. Madam President, I would like I have heard representatives of the Social Democrats say that Sweden succeeded even worse with jobs during the financial crisis. These are false claims. There are clear statistics on this from Eurostat. From the fourth quarter of 2008 to the fourth quarter of 2011, i.e. the years covered by the financial crisis, only four countries in the EU succeeded better in holding down unemployment than Sweden. So we were in top five during the financial crisis, despite the fact that there was no lay-off aid available at the time. I think it was a brilliant achievement of the moderate-led alliance government. However, during the pandemic, which we hope will soon see the end of, the reality is different. Now, instead, Sweden is one of the countries that is most successful in saving jobs. I must ask the Minister for Labour if she is satisfied with the outcome of government policy. Does she really think that the record level of long-term unemployment will decrease with government policy? And why should we believe in the government's promises now, when the old promise of the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020 instead became the EU's fourth highest unemployment rate?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-133	Madam President, I would like I can see that every month since the end of the year more people go to work and study than it is who sign up for Arbetsförmedlingen. The government's strong action has helped us to save thousands of jobs and to see now a turnaround. This turnaround will be even more powerful and strong as we can now also remove the restrictions that applied during the pandemic. We should remember that covid-19 has not only affected life and health but also hit the labour market hard. What the government is now seeing is a turnaround. We can take an example from today: There are 111 020 vacancies in Platsbanken. Despite the fact that we remain in a serious situation – with long-term unemployment that we are now going to push back and also the need for employers to employ – we see that it has turned around. We see the light, and we see that many new jobs are growing in the economy. This is happening not least with the new industrialisation that is taking place in northern Sweden and which means that tens of thousands of new jobs will be created in the coming years. So it's not as dark as the Moderates want to claim. We are among the countries in the EU that have the highest proportion of the population in work, and even after one of the worst economic crises we have seen in the Swedish labour market since the Second World War, the employment rate is higher than when the Moderates ruled. Politics makes a difference, Madam President.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-136	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have their own ways of dealing with serious social issues. You either blame someone else or minimize the problems and try to talk about something else or hide the problems in the statistics. Unfortunately, things didn't go so well before the pandemic either. We lost a lot to other countries even during the boom, and during the pandemic, what has been said has gone even worse. In fact, most things have gone in the wrong direction throughout the time that today's government has ruled. This applies, for example, to school results, integration, crime, energy supply and unemployment, to mention just a few things. Unfortunately, all of this has a connection. Weak school scores make it difficult to get a job. Too much immigration of low-skilled people who do not master the Swedish language leads to unemployment and, at worst, crime as an alternative livelihood. Even a failed energy policy leads to lost jobs. Around the country we see the effects of government policy. In Robertsfors in Västerbotten there were 2 000 new jobs due to lack of electricity. In Uddevalla, 1,500 jobs have been lost in recent years for the same reason. In Laholm, some 2,000 jobs have been lost due to a lack of electricity. Already in 2019 Pågen had to stop the expansion of its production due to a shortage of electricity, and the ventilation company Lindab had to opt out of investments in Sweden in favour of Germany, Estonia and Denmark due to insecure electricity supply. In the same way, you can continue. There has been a stop to the establishment of everything from food halls to computer halls because of a failed energy policy. Other government decisions – or lack of decisions – also affect jobs. In northern Sweden, a number of mining projects have been waiting for notice for several years. The fact that you have to wait so incredibly long for a yes or no is unreasonable and costs a lot of jobs that would be needed right now. Then I have not even mentioned that the government's own authority the county administrative board appealed against Cementa's permission and all the effects that this has on jobs. Increased taxes on transport, energy, capital and entrepreneurship do not create jobs either, but drive jobs out of the country. This happens at the same time as insecurity in our suburbs forces shops to close and craftsmen see their work vehicles burn up. Jobs are not created by labour market policies, but by a comprehensive entrepreneurship and job creation policy. Reasonable taxes, stable energy supply, efforts to combat threats and damage to small businesses, a high-quality school, reasonable transport costs and the exercise of legal authority and licensing are some of the things that are needed. Today's government has failed most of this. It clings to its old labour market policy and at the same time tries to hide unemployment by hiding it in the statistics. This is therefore the same method used by the old S-government before 2006 when they retired 140 people a day to try to clean up the unemployment figures. But, Madam President, this is a dead end. Today's government has contributed with its policies to the second worst development of employment in the EU, and we now have the fourth highest unemployment rate of all 27 EU countries. For the first time, we have higher unemployment than the EU average and also the highest long-term unemployment recorded in Sweden. This is a major fiasco of a government that promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. We must give people hope back instead of continuing as before. We must present a policy that can really make a difference. But this requires a completely different policy from the old cabinet food offered by the government, which has led to these problems. I have to ask the Minister for Labour: does the Minister for Labour, with the trade union background she herself has, not realise that Sweden is on the wrong track, that something new is needed and that it is not possible to continue in the old tracks? It hasn't worked.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-148	Madam President, I would like In any case, with all due respect, I would like to respond to two errors here. Firstly, Sweden is still in the top league in terms of employment rates. We also have the EU's highest participation rate. If Sweden had been as average in terms of employment, 450 000 fewer people would have gone to work today. This is very important. Secondly, I would like to respond to Jan Ericson's claim that the government is engaged in some sort of old policy. We are delivering a labour market policy that we know works. We use the tools that we know make a difference. In addition to these, which include labour market training, matching services, additional services and traineeships, we are developing new labour market policy tools. The intensive year, which is very important for shortening the start-up period for new arrivals, is one such year. Setting up jobs, which we are preparing right now, will be a very important reform. This will be cheap and easy for employers and a very good support for those people who have been out of work for a long time. I would also like to mention a very important structural labour market reform which is about creating security in transition with a completely new transition study support for employees in order to develop through a full working life. That is how it is, Madam President, that we are creating the best conditions for more people to get into work and for everyone who can work to work. This is done through tools that work and by developing new important reforms in the labour market. The solution is not what the Moderates seem to believe is the solution. The only solution presented by the Moderates is to make people poorer. It is not that jobs increase or that you give people better support to get into work by making people poor. The way forward is that we are all helping each other, that we are ensuring that the right efforts are made and that people get the education and experience required in today's labour market.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-155	Madam President, I would like This debate is about the government's responsibility for today's situation in the Swedish labour market. I am the one who asks the Minister the questions; she is not the one who should criticise the Moderates. But okay– we in the Moderates will detail our overall policy and proposals in this area in our budget motion, which will be in a few weeks' time. I can warn you that it is based on several important elements: a policy that promotes entrepreneurship and investment, reduced taxes, tighter benefit systems, clearer driving forces in integration policy, stronger action against crime and a focus on actions that we know from experience are working. The problem with the government's efforts is that they do not work. Against this, the government puts tax increases, more generous benefit systems, ineffective labour market policies and creative statistics to hide the problems. The Minister for Labour claimed that I was wrong about the employment rate and said that we still belong to the top league. We do, but in the past we have always been the best in the European Union in terms of employment rates. We're not anymore. We were under the Alliance all along, but now we've slipped down. This is not very impressive. We've lost. We have had the second worst development of the employment rate throughout the EU during the years in which the Social Democrats have ruled Sweden. Why should we compare with those who are worse? Why shouldn't we stay the best? Madam President, I would like Let me repeat: this government has contributed with its policies to the second worst development of employment in the EU, and we have the fourth highest unemployment rate of all 27 EU countries. For the first time, we have higher unemployment than the EU average and also the highest long-term unemployment recorded in Sweden. This is a complete and almost unimaginable fiasco of a government that promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The Swedish people are actually worth a lot better than that. We Moderates want to give people hope. Not least, we want to offer all unemployed people hope for a job. In fact, it is not a natural law for a country to have as weak a job policy as we have at the moment.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-162	Madam President, I would like The government's powerful green start-up of the economy makes a difference. The crisis is not over, but the economy is rapidly turning up again. We also see that many are coming back to work. As further restrictions disappear, even more employers will need staff – old jobs will come back and new ones will be added. There are many of us who work in Sweden. Despite one of the biggest declines in the Swedish economy, we now have a higher employment rate than when Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister in 2014. In the midst of the pandemic, 270 000 more people work in Sweden than when we took office. Although we take account of demographic trends in these years, employment increased by over 60 000 people. It is a sign of strength for the Swedish economy and for all employees who go to work and build Sweden strong. We're doing a good job. But, Madam President, that is not enough. We are therefore strengthening employment policy so that everyone can take Sweden forward after the pandemic.
i-QC8HQ2opeQQH2ojWmKLLrx	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Hans Dahlgren and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-166	Mr President, I would like to In Lund, there have been bombings, shootings, juvenile robbery and assault rapes in recent years. In the autumn of 2017, several people were tricked into stopping by a car to show the way, but they were then dragged along the ground. There are reports of insecurity and drug sales at the centre. Recently two older gentlemen were attacked and robbed who had taken a beer to celebrate that they were vaccinated. The last time there was a clan settlement that moved between different parts of the city, and the culmination took place around the hospital. Not only did the clan fight lead to insecurity and vandalism; necessary and important operations also had to be cancelled. When are Lundabon and Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson to present proposals for the necessary reforms? Can a clan fight in the heart of Lund, in the home of the Minister of Justice, get the Minister of Justice to put forward proposals for model-breaking reforms instead of marginal adjustments?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-169	Mr President, I would like to I live, as Louise Meijer says, in Lund for more than 30 years. I don't know how many contacts and other things I've had with both the police and the municipality in Lund for many years. The image that Louise Meijer wants to paint of Lund as some kind of unsafe city where there are violent crimes everywhere and all the time is false. Lund is a fundamentally safe city. I dare say that. But it is clear that in that city, as elsewhere, there are some violent crimes. Then it is important to ensure that the police and other law enforcement authorities have the resources to prosecute such crimes, which they are now receiving. Thanks to the efforts we have made, there are more police officers in Sweden than ever before, and more police officers come out gradually. This is a completely different situation than when the Moderates cut down on police training by 90% in just two years to finance their tax cuts. We have reversed that trend.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-172	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Justice's worst enemy is not the Moderates or the Alliance Government, on which he so often blames Sweden's problems. The worst enemy of the Minister of Justice is reality, and reality speaks clearly. The gross violence is escalating, and insecurity is increasing. The Moderates have proposed several reforms to which the Minister of Justice has said no. Maybe we'll stand here sooner or later and hear that the Minister of Justice has reconsidered. I hope it will be sooner rather than later.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-174	Mr President, I would like to I have nothing to be ashamed of from the seven years I have been Minister of Justice. There is no other government that has put forward so many proposals and legislative proposals, carried out so many penalties and invested so much in the police. This government is carrying out exactly the kind of reforms that Louise Meijer is looking for. We turned politics in 2014 and made a cover, away from the cuts that the Moderates had stood for. Instead, we have invested, as no government has done before, in the judicial system.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-177	Mr President, I would like to When someone takes your suggestions and makes them their own, of course, you should be flattered. It may concern language requirements, temporary residence permits as a general rule or transit centres for asylum seekers. For the Swedish Democrats, it is gratifying that the government and Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson in question have reconsidered. Now they themselves have put forward a policy that they have previously labeled as xenophobic and deplorable in their deplorable deplorableness. Mr President, I would like to Everyone should have the chance to change, especially if it benefits Sweden. My question to Minister Johansson is: What is the next Swedish Democratic proposal where he will reconsider? Is it perhaps a question of re-migration or transit centres abroad according to the Danish model? Will it be ten years this time too, or will it be possible to speed up the process?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-180	Mr President, I would like to The fundamental difference here is human vision. For the Swedish Democrats, it does not matter how many immigrants come to Sweden. Whether it's 10, 15 or 20 or 1 000 or 50 000 doesn't matter. You are programmatically opposed to people with a different origin being in Sweden at all, Jonas Andersson. We on the part of the Social Democrats have never had that attitude. On the contrary, our ideology is based on the fact that people with different ethnicities, cultures and languages can live together and that we can do so in peace and harmony. When you stand for a policy that in practice is about trying to ensure that people who come from other countries are driven out of Sweden, we are, after all, in favour of a policy that will ensure that people who need protection are also protected. Then we need regulated immigration. It is about what I say: if you have asylum reasons, you can stay. If you don't have asylum reasons, you can leave the country. It's nothing weird at all. On the contrary, it is the basic position that we have had for a long time.
i-4fh4YBrvQfDoH7hLkHUDWe	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was interesting that Prime Minister Damberg said yesterday that the reason why many reforms have not been due to the Government's fear of being accused of racism. That sounds serious. Does Minister Johansson agree with that analysis? Has the Government itself been involved in debates where substantive issues and proposals for important reforms have been met with accusations of racism and xenophobia?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-185	Mr President, I would like to This is a classic attempt to put statements against each other and to snatch them out of context. It's totally misplaced criticism. You will not escape the fact that the Swedish Democrats are a fundamentally racist party, Jonas Andersson, with the roots you have and the politics that you have conducted. Why do I say that? Because all the problems that can exist in one society are one way or another blaming immigrants. I will never go into that rhetoric. I also believe that it is important for voters to see what basic human view the Swedish democrats really stand for. I'm distancing myself from that.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-188	Mr President, I would like to The case of three-year-old Tim who is in danger of being deported to Nigeria has attracted considerable attention recently. Many have been upset by the case and signed a petition for Tim to stay. This is a long way from the first child who has been forced into custody in Sweden and is then in danger of being expelled. Experts, such as the Ombudsman for Children, have made it clear that it is possible to change this by amending the legislation by Parliament and the legislator. That is why the Left Party is today presenting a proposal for a committee initiative in the Social Security Committee, which we would like to call Mr Tim. The aim is to amend the legislation so that the law on the care of young people and the Convention on the Rights of the Child are given a higher status compared to the Aliens Act, which is the law referred to when it comes to the expulsion of Tim. Of course, I wonder what the government is doing. If you get a committee initiative going through Parliament, will you do something about that legislation? Will you ensure that Tim and other children who have been forced into custody stay?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-192	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I cannot go into individual cases, but it is the authorities and the courts that apply the law. However, I would like to point out that, from 20 July of this year, we have new legislation in place precisely with regard to children. With the new legislation, we made it easier for children with particularly distressing circumstances to obtain a residence permit. That law was passed in this House by the smallest possible majority – only two votes. Social Democrats, center partyists, environmentalists and left-wing parties voted in favour of the new wording of the legislation, while Moderates, Christian Democrats, Swedish Democrats and Liberals voted against. This new legislation on particularly distressing circumstances for children is now in place. Then it is generally the case that no child can be rejected alone from Sweden unless there is an arranged reception in the home country. You should know that, too.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-195	Mr President, I would like to The Minister is right – we have good legislation in place because there is still a left-wing majority in the Swedish Parliament. But there are also others in need of asylum, such as the Afghans who have an expulsion order to Taliban Afghanistan. There, the Migration Board is currently holding a stop. It needs to be addressed. These people need to be told that they get permanent security here in Sweden. We also have all those who are trying to escape from Taliban abuses. Here Sweden needs to increase its reception of quota refugees. So far, we have not seen any government proposals to do anything about those who are in Sweden or Afghanistan and need our protection.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-197	Mr President, I would like to No, and that is because the legislation we already have is already taking up this kind of situation. When there is rapid development in one country, we have legislation that allows us to re-assess existing cases. That's exactly the process you're in now. For example, the Afghans who have been refused may request inhibition of the decisions and, in the long run, be re-examined, but it is usually handled by the Migration Agency in accordance with current legislation.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-199	Mr President, I would like to In yesterday's Aftonbladet I read an interview with Mikael Damberg. It said this: The new guidelines of the Social Democrats do not contain any concrete proposals – they are only presented later in the party's election manifesto. Only later are two words to be associated with the Social Democrats and this government when it comes to criminal policy. Today, together with Ebba Busch, I met the police officers behind the petition. That's enough. One of their highest wishes is proactive interception. This is what they are asking for and is also at the top of the political authority's list of needs. Despite its high priority from the police, the Social Democrats and the government voted against it in this House only three months ago. A month ago, however, the Minister for the Interior announced that it intended to set up an investigation into this. But one intention does not go far. When will the tool proactively bugging in place, Mikael Damberg?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-202	Mr President, I would like to When the Social Democrats have congresses, we usually adopt guidelines that point out the long-term direction of politics. It's not an election manifesto. It is an ideological document that points out what issues we think are important. One of these areas is about increased security. It is a very clear focus on these issues, because we have obvious security problems in Sweden that we will continue to work very hard to push back. With regard to the issue of being able to use preventive interception and to give the police the opportunity to stop ongoing escalation of violence, work is currently under way in the Government Office to write the directives for the investigation. I will come back to you when that work is over.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-204	Mr President, I would like to I hope it is not only later that Mikael Damberg returns. Nevertheless, I think it is positive that he has reconsidered and made this reversal. But we need to get this legislation in place. The police need it. Has the government, in the course of its work on the directives, considered developing a temporary legislation that can be put in place quickly on a pro-active interception? The government has been quite creative with temporary laws in the past, and here the situation is acute.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-205	Mr President, I would like to It's not a turnaround. I have never closed the door to do this, because the Police Authority has been careful to say that it is something they need. Now we have also declared that we will set up an investigation to make it possible. In addition, we have revolutionized this area by increasing the possibility of data storage and signal scanning during pre-investigation. We have also made it easier to use secret coercive measures. We already have an investigation looking at an extended possibility of using secret coercive measures. In addition, we have introduced secret data readings. This is an area where we are working very actively to improve police opportunities.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-208	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for European Affairs. Since its entry into the EU, Sweden has a joint and several responsibility towards the Baltic countries in helping with energy supply. This is important so that they do not have to depend on energy supplies from their neighbours in the East, Russia. This applies, of course, to the whole of our Union, but especially to those countries. In view of this and in view of the offensive work that the Liberals welcome in the EU for the climate, I have a question. What does Sweden do specifically for nuclear power to continue to be part of the European energy mix and to be able to meet the need for energy, for example, for the Baltic countries, but also, of course, for Sweden and other countries? It is about the climate, but in this case it is also about a security policy perspective and the solidarity perspective that Sweden has towards these countries in particular.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-211	Mr President, I would like to What is Sweden doing specifically to assist Baltic countries in developing their nuclear power? The answer is that Sweden upholds the principle that has been fundamental within the European Union: that each country has the right to choose its own nuclear mix. We have no reason to promovere one or the other option for other countries, but they have to choose which option they themselves think is best.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-212	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, my question was unclear. In order to meet the joint and several responsibility that Sweden has towards the Baltic countries, Sweden will need nuclear power in its energy production. Within the framework of the EU's work on the climate and within the framework of the EU's work on energy, we are concerned that nuclear power is being lost in the energy mix. What does the Swedish government do? Who are we working with to ensure that nuclear power continues to be part of the energy mix, so that we can meet the joint responsibility towards the Baltic countries?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-213	Mr President, I would like to No, I have no concern that Sweden is losing nuclear power in its energy mix. There are no prohibitions in Sweden to establish new nuclear power plants if you wish. But there is no economic precondition for this, as far as I understand it, because there are no operators in that market who want to take any such initiatives. We have a fantastic change when it comes to renewable energy in Sweden. It's a matter of rolling on that road.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-215	Mr President, I would like to I got a question the other day from Rigmor in my constituency Jönköping: Why is it that gang criminals' shootings often get big headlines in the media while violence against women and children often gets obscured? Every year, an average of 15 women are killed by men they have or have had a relationship with. But women who are psychologically or physically subjected to abuse and violence can be counted in thousands. Their freedom is restricted and violated. Men's violence against women cuts through all social classes and affects mothers, children and families both in the present and in the future. Men's violence against women is a strong priority for the government, and a 40-point programme to intensify work was presented in June. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice how the work on the 40-point programme is progressing.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-218	Mr President, I would like to The question that Rigmor asked himself, I often ask myself. That is why it is important for us to keep repeating that the government has two priorities. One is gang crime. The other is men's violence against women. The two priorities are equal, as this 40-item programme is also an expression of. The programme means that we will now be able to move the positions further. This is a major social problem. We have done a lot, but there is also much left. What about the 40-point program? In fact, we tabled legislative proposals to Parliament this spring, for example, to tighten the penalty for gross violation of women's rights, to extend the possibility of putting a anklet on the persecuting men and to expel the persecuting men from the common home. This is therefore on Parliament's table as a proposal since last spring. But we also see other legislation ahead of us. For example, last week I presented a review of the rights of access. This is about the right of violent men to access in relation to common children. This is also an extremely important issue to continue working on.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-220	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice. More effective law enforcement, increased knowledge and research and methodological development are perhaps the most important issues for the judiciary. But most of the time, the crimes have already happened. Working with attitudes, norms and behaviour as well as starting with girls and boys at an early age may still be the most important thing and affect more policy areas. What do the Government see as important parts of that work?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-222	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that if men's violence against women is to stop, it is men who must change. I have argued on the basis that the criminal law changes we are making send out signals as to what standards should apply. One of the most obvious changes was perhaps the consent legislation that we got through in 2018. It created a very clear standard of what should apply also in sexual relations: respect, reciprocity and, not least, voluntaryism. Everything else is an abuse. We must ensure that this legislation is implemented. It must not only be a law of consent, but also a culture of consent. Then we influence attitudes in depth.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-225	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. In the budget, the government has put forward a much-needed initiative for more places in the health care business that are shortened VMU, operating education. The initiative enables more people to be trained as general nurses or specialist nurses. It is very necessary to pass the care today but also to pass the care in the future.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-228	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Fransson, for a very important question! Ever since 2014, 2015 it has been the full focus to get higher education available throughout the country and strengthen the focus that we train to our shortage professions. We are pleased to note that, for example, when it comes to nursing education, we are examining 16 – 17 percent more nurses now than compared to, for example, 2015. A really big bottleneck for us to be able to train even more nurses – which we have the capacity to do with expanded educational places at higher education institutions – is precisely the operational education. We are now making an investment of 25 million in 2022 and 50 million annually from 2023, which will be able to strengthen the ability to supervise the training in the field in regions and municipalities. We are also making an effort to strengthen the coordination of the operational training. I believe that this will be crucial for the quality of the future.
i-Q4mvrdSNymcyZFbqYniKe1	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister Matilda Ernkrans! First of all, I want to say that I agree with you. This bottleneck has been a problem for many years. It's a very well-known problem. I wonder how the Government sees the collaboration between the higher education institutions and their activities whether they are in regions or municipalities and what the Government thinks could be improved.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-236	Mr President, I would like to I think that coordination needs to be further improved. We've set up the Council of Health Professionals to look at those parts. I look forward with excitement to their work. Now we are giving an opportunity to strengthen the coordination of the operational training. Lessonsäten and the surrounding society where it has worked well may be able to give inspiration and knowledge to other parts where it has worked less well. We also make the very important effort with increased remuneration for the wrists, which is absolutely crucial for continued work. We need to continue our work on this issue.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-239	Mr President, I would like to Many young people are injured and killed by firearms. It is a major failure of the Swedish Government. This has not always been the case. Gunshot injuries have increased by 50% in ten years. In the 1980s there were no gunshot wounds more than exceptional in Sweden. Doctors who would learn to treat it had to go to Texas to educate themselves. Today we watch television almost every day news of gunshot wounds. How could this happen? There are, of course, many answers to that. Tougher social climate, access to weapons and increased crime among really young people are some parts. The really heavy criminals who are being prosecuted have to a greater extent than the rest of the population have various neuropsychiatric diagnoses. These are diagnoses that they have not always been investigated for despite signs at an early age.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-243	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes I think that what we are doing now we should perhaps have done in Sweden 15, 20 or 25 years ago. It was at that time that gang crime report stuck in Sweden. Many of those who are today the most active were perhaps in their four, five, six or seven years of age at that time. It should have been possible to go in there with efforts earlier. Does this mean that we will not be able to access it? No, I think we'll be able to do that. But it will take a little longer, it will cost a little more money and it will be harder. The penal services, as Lotta Olsson says, have a very important role to play in this. I am pleased to note that relapses in crime tend to decrease. Over the last twenty-year period, we have seen that those we get into the penitentiary, where we can work on the methods we have, have better prospects now than they had 15 to 20 years ago to be able to get out of their crime. This tells me that we need to try to further develop the Prison Service. As we expand the judiciary as much as we do, we will ensure that we can continue to maintain the quality of those who are now entering there and also in other areas such as the Prison Service.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-247	Mr President, I would like to I have asked both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Education written questions about this. It seems that there is no real cooperation between the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Education despite reports showing that neuropsychiatric diagnoses are many among the young people who handle weapons and are heavy criminals. Is there no cooperation in the government on such serious social issues?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-248	Mr President, I would like to Of course it does, of course. I think everyone in the government is souled by and knows that if you are going to get to this, it is not just about what I possibly stand for, the fight against violence, the Prison Service, the police, for which Mikael Damberg is responsible, and much more. This is not just about this. It's also about breaking new recruits to the criminal gangs. That is why we keep saying that the municipalities must also assume their responsibility in terms of prevention. It is about school, social services and leisure activities. The local government sector went in surplus by nearly 50 billion last year. Now spend some of that money on prevention! That is the unequivocal message from the government on this issue.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-252	Mr President, I would like to Today, the conflict over the so-called "conditional steps" has flared up. While police resources are being moved from match fixing work, there are reports of flag bans for dedicated football fans. Long-term work by football clubs has led to safer football today than ever before. But we have real problems in Sweden today. The police should spend more of their time and energy fighting crime than fighting fictional crimes. Does Minister Damberg consider it a proper use of police resources and energy to ban flags on Swedish football relatives rather than act forcefully against real organised crime?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-255	Mr President, I would like to Since I am interested in football myself, I think it is incredibly important that we can have atmospheric, exciting events but also secure events at our football stadiums around Sweden. I think a lot of people are looking for that. Of course, I cannot comment on how the Police Authority applies Swedish law. It is the authority that must and has to do so. I note that the Swedish Police Authority is in a job seeking dialogue and consensus with the Swedish Football Association, the Swedish Elite Football Association and also the clubs on how to apply and work with the Order Act to create safe and secure events that are also atmospheric. I very much hope that all actors can take their responsibility so that we can see even more pleasant football in safe conditions in the future.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-258	Mr President, I would like to The conditionality staircase has been called into question even before the pandemic, and now the issue has flared up again with the fact that you can once again go and watch football. What the audience has asked for is to be able to cheer their teams – nothing else. What we are seeing today is an irritable atmosphere. How do we reach a healthy gallery and supporter culture when the condition staircase only causes irritation?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-260	Mr President, I would like to Again: I cannot discuss how the police apply Swedish law. But I think it is important to say that there is no human right to break the law when going to football events. The police have to comply with the law of law and to maintain security. It is important for anyone who attends football events. I have great confidence that the Police Authority takes responsibility for a serious and constructive dialogue so that the clubs also assume their responsibilities at their events around Sweden.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-262	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Recently, the government has announced a new public conversion aid to go to what is called labour market reform. It has just recently been announced that this will be financed by a shock increase in the interest rate on the loan part of the study facility for all of us who have studied at universities and colleges. The increase is from 0.0 percent to 0.6 percent. It's a pretty big raise. Saco Student Council, Sweden's United Student Unions and many other organisations have been very critical of this, because it is a fairly big change. There are many of us who sit with student loans, and it is incredibly important to point out how important the student funding is for the broader recruitment to Swedish universities and colleges.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-266	Mr President, I would like to What the government takes responsibility for is the partnership agreement that is reached on the Swedish labour market. It will involve a structural reform that not least the trade union movement has been working for for decades, namely that we will get on-site trainings and a conversion study support that makes it possible to fill in with new knowledge in the middle of working life. This will apply to everyone in the Swedish labour market. If you have worked at least half-time for 8 years over the past 14 years, this conversion study grant, which has a very high grant level of over 20 000 SEK, can be studied for up to one year in upper secondary school, vocational college, university of applied sciences and college. This is a structural reform that will cost 6 to 9 billion. As part-financing of this, we make a change in the interest rate when you pay back your student loans in our very favorable and generous – one of the world's most generous – student loan system.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-269	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. But does the Government consider it reasonable that it is the former students who should finance this? In fact, not everyone has very high wages when you finish and start working. It will be those who have studied at universities and higher education institutions who will be involved in funding the further education that can then be done, and which in itself is of course very good. It is incredibly important that we have low thresholds into universities and colleges.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-271	Mr President, I would like to I absolutely share the view that we should have low thresholds into universities and colleges. I am a social democrat, and we are part of that Sweden has higher education throughout the country. Without the Social Democracy, we would not have had the generous system of study that we have – what actually means that you do not have to give up higher education because of your economy. This is a generous study aid system – one of the world's most generous. It will also be with the changed model. CSN is now tasked with returning to how this should be designed. For the vast majority of borrowers it will not mean an increase in monthly costs.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-274	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg. The Corona epidemic made the operation of the gangs more difficult. But now that the borders are reopened, we have to fear that individuals and businesses will again be forced into burglary. After several years of disinterest, the government has expanded the task of the Customs Agency. But it is far too small in my view, as the Customs Administration will only look for stolen goods in connection with customs control. The Finnish Customs' own analysis of the change is that it does not change the authority's mandate and therefore does not in itself lead the Swedish Customs to extend its exit controls. Mr President, I would like to Against this background – does the Minister of the Interior believe that the limited extension of the powers of the Customs Administration really counteracts the activities of the theft leagues in Sweden?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-278	Mr President, I would like to The work against international theft leagues in Sweden is a high priority. We have also seen that certain types of burglary, such as in villas and apartments, have decreased over time while others have increased. This is a priority. We have worked with government cooperation and got the Coast Guard, Customs and the police together in a joint work. We have tightened the penalties for the systematic thefts and introduced new penalties for heeling linked to this. We're hiring more cops, and we're working on Tullverket's new powers to stop stolen goods coming out. In addition, a review of the Swedish Customs Agency's comprehensive regulations and regulations is being carried out to investigate which law enforcement tools and methods the Swedish Customs will be responsible for in the future.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-281	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. That seems promising, because, precisely today, only 350 of the 25 000 customs controls carried out each year, i.e. 1.5%, are related to transport out of the country. Since the stolen goods mainly cross the border, the change that is now being carried out is only one blow in the air. I therefore wonder: should not the task of the Customs Agency be extended to allow more vehicles to be checked? 350 checks a year do not stop the theft leagues.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-283	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Customs Agency has received 30 per cent increase in funding in recent years and continues to grow in the future. They also control the introduction of drugs and weapons, for example. It is extremely important that the Swedish Customs' ability to stop gangs from taking part in drugs and weapons continues to grow. They have several important tasks. We also have an investigation under way that gives the police new possible powers in the border zone. It is about using technical possibilities with cameras but perhaps also new powers. It is not only the Swedish Customs that we are going to look at at at the border, but we are also going to look at the police's powers at the border.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-285	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Hans Dahlgren. In recent times, the European Commission has called on the Court of Justice to impose fines on Poland for failing to comply with a decision of the European Court of Justice on the independence of courts. A European Commissioner has also recently stated that Poland cannot participate in the EU Recovery Fund unless it complies with EU law. My question is: is the EU doing enough to deal with the situation in Poland and Hungary?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-288	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Vikström, for the question! It is an urgent task for the Member States of the European Union to ensure that we all stand up for the values that underpin European cooperation. My view is that we in the European Union are probably doing more now than we have done in the past to ensure that these rights and values are met and respected, not least in the area of justice. As Anna Vikström said, the Commission has now gone to the Court of Justice of the European Union asking it to fine Poland for failing to comply with the decision of the European Court of Justice. I think one of the Commissioners has said that the Court of Justice should decide for itself how much the fines will be, but EUR 1 million a day is my proposal! So it's 10 million SEK a day or 300 million SEK a month – it's amazingly large amounts. It'll feel. I think we're on our way.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-292	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. If the EU sharpens its tone and acts further to ensure that Poland and Hungary comply with the rule of law – what could be the consequences in the long run?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-293	Mr President, I would like to Hopefully we will see an amendment, which is the objective, in Poland, Hungary and other countries that may be involved in this type of review. That's the target. The aim is not to kick them out of the Union, but to have a different policy and to go back to what it promised when it became a member of the Union and which it must stick to as long as it is present. I think that should be our goal, and we should work for that.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-294	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Representatives of several of Sweden's universities have today announced that thousands of foreign academics may be forced to leave Sweden as a result of amendments to the Aliens Act. This obviously risks hitting many individuals very hard, but it also risks damaging Swedish research and Sweden as an international research environment. My question is therefore whether the Government will work to ensure that foreign doctoral students will have the opportunity to stay in Sweden and work here and thus secure Sweden as an attractive country for non-European researchers.
i-EiJoCGRnQMHdN9BMCwYrgZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Axel Hallberg! This government has worked and continues to work actively to ensure that highly qualified skills are attracted to and remain in Sweden. This also applies to the doctoral students. What the honourable Member is referring to here is a change in the Aliens Act adopted in this Parliament. There were no other proposals in the Riksdag than what now applies after this decision was taken in the Swedish Parliament. I think it is important that we have sustainable and long-term migration legislation that can last over time. I also think that we should remind ourselves that temporary residence permits will exist and apply to doctoral students and this type of labour migration as well as others. If you require a permanent residence permit, it is possible to obtain it if you actually get a job that is longer than 18 months. I hope that responsible parties who think it is important can also provide this improved job security for those who have doctoral and postdoc positions.
i-F2kxXfTiKyv2sEeAMRV248	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is clear that there is fear in the university world in Sweden and that there is concern among foreign doctoral students in Sweden about these issues. I simply wonder what the Government wants to say to the foreign researchers and doctoral students who are now concerned.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-301	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that I can, of course, understand the concern. However, this also needs to be taken into account because it is now time to push for improved job security between the parties. If you think you need to have a permanent residence permit, that is the basis. This is the case here, and it applies to other labour migrations. Then we shall also recall that, since 1 January 2020, everyone has the right to stay for one year in order to seek work or start a business. This applies to all those who have completed their doctoral studies and higher education studies.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-303	Mr President, I would like to Happily, the Public Health Agency is now starting to release the restrictions that we have all had to live with during this pandemic. It is believed that the greatest threat at the moment to the decline in the spread of infection in society is the group that is not yet vaccinated. My question goes to Minister Damberg and is about how the government sees the possibility of getting more people vaccinated in Sweden to prevent the pandemic's progress. Just now there were messages from my old hometown Västerås where the group consisting of anti-vaxaxers, or vaccination opponents, prevents people from vaccinating themselves – the very group we work with especially to get vaccinated.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-307	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for a very important question! I think the most important thing is to see that we have come a long way with vaccination in Sweden. I believe that over 75% of those 16 years of age and older have been vaccinated and are now fully vaccinated, and it continues upwards. Focus on this positive development is important. The Government has signed a new agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions where they undertake to make new efforts to reach those groups that have not yet been reached by vaccination. Uppsala chose to call residents who had not vaccinated themselves, and there the vaccination rate went up considerably. So good things can be done. I don't think we should give the anti-vaxx movement more attention than it deserves. In Sweden it is about few people. There aren't many of them. We will build on the positive trend we have. We see that it matters whether you vaccinate or not.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-312	Mr President, I would like to What Minister Damberg now mentions is the efforts made by municipalities and regions around Sweden, and I would like to know a little more about how the government intends to work to get more people to vaccinate in Sweden. I'd like to come back to the group that takes the law into its own hands. In addition to the possibility of influencing in writing and words, you take matters into your own hands, and we see the effect of what has just happened in Västerås where a policeman has also been injured. We can see this in other social categories as well.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-314	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly important that authorities intervene when someone violates the law or tries to prevent people from vaccinating themselves. I have high expectations of the police when it comes to that. When it comes to disinformation, MSB has been tasked with following this and working with the regions and other actors to reduce the impact. However, I do not think that the antivax movement in Sweden has had so much influence. We have not seen it, we shall not give them that attention and we shall continue with the positive message. Those who die in Sweden and who are in hospital with serious injuries are to a large extent those who have not vaccinated themselves. We'll keep telling you about that.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-317	Mr President, I would like to The negotiations on a European directive on minimum wages are not going very well. Lying proposals from both the Council and Parliament pose direct threats to the Swedish model of wage formation. The government's position on this issue still lacks clarity. The government has welcomed European involvement in this area, but on the assumption that the directive contains some type of derogation so that we do not have to implement the rules in Sweden. This is an uncertain strategy. The directive has its substance when interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Union, and there are never any guarantees. In other words, the government plays Brussels roulette with the Swedish model of wage setting. I would therefore like to ask Mr Dahlgren whether it would not have been smarter to make a sharp statement from the outset that we should not have a directive at all and that Sweden will use all the available means to ensure that this is the case.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-320	Mr President, I would like to No, Ludvig Aspling, the Swedish government has not welcomed any European involvement in Swedish wage formation. On the contrary, from the outset, this government has said that we should maintain the Swedish model in which the social partners set salaries without any government body or institution in Brussels interfering in this. This has been our line. We have tried to do what Ludvig Aspling himself proposed here at the end, that is to say, to act so that we do not have a directive at all. This has not succeeded. Then it is of course important to make the text on the table so clear that the Swedish model should not have to be affected. It is this work that we are now doing in very close contact with the current Presidency and with the forthcoming presidencies to explain that when this comes to a decision, it must be as watertight a ban as we can ever get against doing anything about the Swedish model.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-323	Mr President, I would like to What the government says doesn't make sense. The government's position on this issue, for which support has been sought here in Parliament, has repeatedly contained letters stating that there is a great advantage in the Union's interfering in labour market policy in various ways. For her part, the Minister for Labour has even declared herself satisfied once earlier this year when she said that she was satisfied with the exception that Sweden had been promised in the ongoing negotiations. To say that the government has not welcomed the Union's involvement is therefore not true.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-325	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that what Ludvig Aspling is now saying is not true. The Swedish Government has never said that we would like a directive in the first place. It contains an exception in itself, but of course we do not want a directive at all in the first place. Now there is one that we are negotiating on, and then we need to do it as well as possible. I think we have reason to welcome the efforts made by the Commission to find formulas that protect the Swedish model.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-328	Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister for Migration is based on the interview that took place for 30 minutes with Anders Holmberg the other week. There, the Minister argued that the government took a series of measures in 2015 when it was understood that the large number of asylum applications would not apply only to a single year. This doesn't make any sense. The Migration Agency already pointed out in the 2014 forecast that for a number of years we would have a pressure on Sweden – between 300 000 and 600 000 new residence permits were expected until 2018. That was also the reason why we Christian Democrats changed our migration policy in December 2014. At that time, we went on to recommend temporary residence permits as the main rule, which Prime Minister Stefan Löfven commented on with the Christian Democrats, playing SD in the hands. Did the Minister of Immigration not know about the Migration Board's forecasts, or did he not trust them?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-332	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I did. As I said, no one read these forecasts more carefully than I did in 2014 and 2015. The situation in the spring of 2015 was rather uncertain. We didn't really know how many were coming. We did not know how many people would apply for asylum in Germany. We didn't know how many could get through. And in the summer of 2015, the Migration Board laid its forecast at a rather low level. That was the reason why it could be said that it might not be as dramatic as many thought at the time. Then it started. In September, October, November and December, i.e. in four months, there were 114 000 asylum seekers in Sweden. There were at times 10,000 a week. It was at that stage that the government acted and introduced the border controls and the ID controls, the temporary law and other measures to simply get control of the situation.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-335	Mr President, I would like to The Minister's colleague Mikael Damberg, present here, said a few days ago that there was anxiety in describing social problems linked to large immigration and poor integration. Does the Government think you have contributed to this anxiety? I am thinking, among other things, of the Prime Minister's statement when we turned our migration policy into temporary residence permits. He said we were playing SD in the hands. It was 2014. In 2021, the same government says that it is a wise, responsible and humane migration policy.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-337	Mr President, I would like to Surely no one has followed this discussion in recent years that does not know about the development. We took office in 2014 at a time when there was an ongoing rapid development in the number of asylum seekers. We tightened the legislation the following year, 2015, in such a way that we gained control of migratory flows. Today we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years, including as a result of the measures we took. That is how a responsible government must act. When things develop in a way that you didn't believe from the beginning, you have to make sure to act, and we did.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-341	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ernkrans. It is becoming increasingly apparent that the climate is the destiny of our time. Here it is gratifying that the government is presenting comprehensive initiatives to speed up the climate change transition, including in the form of strengthening the Industriklivet. The transition in industry is crucial. In Oxelösund, where I come from from the beginning, we see how SSAB produces the first fossil-free steel. This is a typical example of how Sweden can be at the forefront of the climate transition and at the same time create jobs. But for the transition to be successful, the right skills are also required to develop and drive forward future solutions. Competence requires training. What does the Government do to ensure that in Sweden there is the research and education needed to speed up the climate change in industry?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-345	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important question. Yes, not least the report by the IPCC clearly shows that we need to do more and that it needs to go faster. I believe that there are also great opportunities in this, not least for a country like Sweden. We can push ahead with new green investments, new green solutions and new green jobs. But it is absolutely true that it also requires education that is adapted to this. We should remember that higher education institutions already have a responsibility in the Higher Education Act to adapt their activities in order to promote sustainable development. That is a good basis for this, but we are also doing further things. In fact, we are adding 100 million in the budget to a state-funded competence boost aimed at climate change that will enable the climate change of the business community here and now. We are also making targeted investments in lifelong learning in universities and higher education institutions in the future. There will therefore be more things that will support this.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-353	Mr President, I would like to I am a little curious to hear what the Government is thinking about which other areas of education and research Sweden needs to invest in in order to achieve the global sustainability goals of Agenda 2030 in a broader perspective.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-354	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise once again the major training efforts we are making. It is also a question of linking higher education to the labour market in order to meet its needs better than before. We are making investments across the country but, as I said, we are also making specific investments in the climate change of the business community. Research is crucial. We are making new investments in a research programme on climate, on sea and water, on sustainable society building, on food and on the green and blue bio-based economy. All of this is absolutely crucial for us to be able to make the climate transition bear jobs and welfare in the future as well.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-356	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Ernkrans. I hope the question falls within her judgment this time. According to consistent data, the research vessel Oden is retired. Oden has conducted a unique research in the Arctic that has given Sweden a reputation around the world. It's in the budget about investing in a new icebreaker fleet. But the research vessel Oden is not mentioned, at least not what I could have seen. There is very little in the budget about the operation of Oden, but it is not certain that Oden will last as long as the operating money and the appropriation are sufficient. If Sweden stands without polar research vessels, Sweden's reputation will sink like a stone. Has the government made any new decision regarding the acquisition of a new, similar research vessel to an Oden II?
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. We should remember, however, that the government has put forward in this House, which has also voted for it, a research bill that reinforces Swedish research with a 10% increase in the level up to 2024. In particular, research infrastructures, such as the polar research vessel Oden, are part of, receive a great deal of money for the future. As far as the polar research vessel Oden is concerned, I have just received an investigation by Tobias Krantz, who has looked at how the research infrastructure of the future needs to be strengthened. Here are suggestions concerning the polar research vessel Oden. The investigation is now to be referred to, and then we in the government will have to come back when we have analysed the outcome of the consultation.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-363	Mr President, I would like to I've read a summary of the government investigators' report. In fact, he proposes that the government allocate funds for the acquisition of a new research vessel. He also suggests that we should not rent a research vessel and that we should form a new authority to operate all of this. I wonder how the government views these issues.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-365	Mr President, I would like to There's a reason we've appointed an investigator. He also received an additional assignment to look at the polar research vessel Oden. That's because the government wants a basis to make decisions from outside for the future. Now we've got that basis in this investigation. It is important that it is now consulted and that we are able to compile the responses of the referral bodies. We in the government will return to the Swedish Parliament when we are ready, according to the order that we so well know.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-367	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. Sweden is one of the leading countries in the world when it comes to digitalisation. We also heard last week that we are once again the second best country in the world in terms of innovation, according to Wipo – very nice! That's where we're gonna fight to keep. Unfortunately, we are not the best in the world on cybersecurity – yet. But I want us to be, and I hope the Government shares my ambition. It is very welcome that the government has set up the national cybersecurity centre, which will certainly mean a lot. I have read in the budget that the police also receive a supplement, a technology package of 400 million SEK. Can we hope that this can contribute to the increased cyber security that we need in Sweden? After all, we know that there is constant intrusion, not least by our world-leading companies. We all saw last summer what happened when Coop suffered an intrusion at a supplier's premises and so on. So my question to Minister Mikael Damberg is how we can be the best in the world on cybersecurity.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-371	Mr President, I would like to Cybersecurity is a very urgent issue. We see that the attacks are increasing globally but also against Sweden. We saw it during the pandemic in several countries where healthcare systems were challenged. We recently saw how Coop shops were forced to close. It is about antagonistic actors, which means that it is a total defence issue to protect Sweden. But it is also a police issue, because it is quite a ransomware issue and criminal acts involving online blackmail situations. That is why we are building the ability and capacity of the Political Authority to work with these issues and have also created the cybersecurity centre. But everything is actually covered by the new national cybersecurity strategy, which was adopted in 2017 and has now been followed by action plans. They are currently working on updating this again. This is therefore a work in which the government also plays an important role. For example, we have updated and tightened up security legislation for several occasions in order to defend the most defence-worthy and important issues in our country.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-374	Mr President, I would like to I think the Government was so effective and comprehensive in its response, so I am pleased.
i-c18534a1bc3c15b1-375	Mr President, I would like to I said so little about the cybersecurity center, where we gather our top authorities in the field. I hope that it will really be something that enhances Sweden's ability to both detect attacks against Sweden, manage them and ultimately perhaps fight back if needed.
