i-574252b86ffeedb7-9	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to ensure that a very large part of EU recovery aid is used for new and additional climate measures, such as sustainable cities, additional support for public transport, rail, plant-based diet and investments in connection with offshore wind farms. The government has made it clear that what will speed up the Swedish economy after the pandemic is a green re-launch that also helps Sweden to achieve our high climate goals while at the same time protecting and protecting valuable nature. Sweden pushed very strongly in the negotiations of the RRF Regulation that there should be a link to the EU's climate targets. It was also an important demand from the European Commission. At least 37% of the costs will go to climate action, and at least 20% will go to digital conversion. Measures financed by the RRF shall not have a significant negative impact on the environment or climate, in accordance with the principle of a non-significant harmonisation set out in the Taxonomy Regulation, which means that an economic activity must not cause significant damage to any of the six environmental objectives identified by the taxonomy. The Climate Policy Council has recommended that Sweden's recovery policy be used to implement the climate action plan and existing strategies that concretise the path towards the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The work to design Sweden's recovery plan is now in its final stage. We have chosen to take advantage of the opportunity provided by the regulation to submit slightly later than 30 April. But I can assure Jens Holm that the government is not using the EU's re-start money to fill already empty holes in the government's budget. When the government prepared the budget bill for 2021, we knew that Sweden could receive funding from the facility. We were thus able to use the expected RRF funds as funding. The budget for 2021 included a green restart. 10 billion is earmarked in the budget for new or reinforced investments in nature, climate and biodiversity. However, as the technical details of the regulation were still being negotiated, it was not possible to specify the exact measures to be included in the plan as early as September last year. According to the Regulation, it is possible to apply retroactively for aid for measures from February 2020. The budget proposal 2021 contains the climate investments that the Government considers to be strategically most important based on the conversion needs we see today. The national budgetary processes need to continue to be respected, which is also something that Sweden has been driving in the development of the RRF. The RRF is not intended to bring the EU closer to a common fiscal policy. Exactly what measures will be included in Sweden's recovery plan, we will have to return to when the government has decided on the plan. That at least 37% should go to climate investment follows from the regulation. I fully agree with Jens Holm and with the Finnish Minister for Finance that it is important for the state to make investments that also make private money flow to. The Swedish support for industry and climate change are really successful examples of this.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-17	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Environment and Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. I think we agree that the pandemic is terrible and that we want it to end as soon as possible. We now see that the vaccination is rolling out at a fairly high speed and can still see a light at the end of the tunnel. The interesting thing that we then need to ask ourselves is what we do after the pandemic. We know that there will be a revival of the Swedish economy as well as other economies. Then it is important that we not only go back to how everything used to be but make sure to do something better after the pandemic so that we can get a sustainable restart of the Swedish economy. During the pandemic there has also been a lot of interesting events that show a change in the behaviour of the Swedish people. We see the same trends around the world. For example, you choose to cycle more, you appreciate nature very much and you question industrial animal husbandry. The pandemic virus originates from the animal kingdom. I think it is a good thing that the European Union has launched this major re-starting programme, although it is possible to discuss forms of funding, etc. But now it is in place, and in Sweden there is an estimated SEK 35 billion in recovery funds. Of these SEK 35 billion, 37 percent, i.e. about SEK 13 billion, will be earmarked for climate action. The Minister is happy to confirm these figures so that I understand them correctly. The EU says that it is important that this should not just be used to finance the normal operation of the budget. For example, Article 5 of the regulation governing these funds states that money must not be used for recurrent national budgetary expenditure. I understand that it is very important that we now take the opportunity to use these recovery funds to do something new for the climate and make sure that there will be extra efforts to change Sweden when we reboot the economy. That is exactly what the Climate Policy Council has also said. President of the Climate Policy Council Johan Kuylenstiern a said in an interview here that he really hopes that the government's money does not go to plug empty holes in the budget. There are lots of things that the government could invest this money in, such as building sustainable and fair cities and taking advantage of the changed and positive behaviour that we have seen during the pandemic. Cities could be built that encourage more walking and cycling, reduce motorism, build more green areas and so on. We could invest in support for plant-based diets, i.e. reduced meat consumption and more vegetarian food. We can make more investments in expanded wind power, for example paying the connection fee for offshore wind. We can help municipalities to develop new planning support to plan for new wind farms – the municipal plans for wind power that exist today are more than ten years old. I would like to ask the Minister whether new additional efforts will be presented. When is the Swedish recovery plan presented? What will the handling in Parliament look like? Will we in Parliament also be allowed to say yes or no to the Government's proposal?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-25	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for an important debate. It is true that as Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, I am naturally committed to making great efforts to build up what we have set as our goal, namely that Sweden should become the world's first fossil-free welfare society and meet the environmental and climate goals that the Swedish Parliament has set itself. At the same time, it is important to remind Jens Holm and others that we are still in the midst of a pandemic. Much of the budget work that has been done so far has been about managing to get Sweden through the pandemic, to ensure that there are companies that can reset, that people are at work and can do the new green jobs. First, to destroy the economy by not making sufficient efforts to then try to build it is an unwise strategy. The vaccinations that Jens Holm mentioned are the reason why we are well in phase. The fact that there are many vaccinations is due to the fact that the government has made major investments in the budget for regions and specifically targeted efforts on vaccinations. It is also worth noting at the beginning of the debate that the Left Party is fundamentally opposed to EU money. If the Left Party had stood where I stand, and I had stood where Jens Holm stands, we would not have been able to hold a debate at all. There would have been no EU money. Thanks to the Swedish government pushing hard within the EU to make a green investment, the investments that will be the green recovery at EU level, the recovery will be genuinely green. I can give Jens Holm a clear and reassuring message that the figures we have negotiated in the budget are valid at European level, and they should, of course, also apply to the Swedish recovery package. I would really like to point out to Jens Holm and everyone else that we are doing something new for the climate. We already put in the previous budget the biggest green initiative that has ever been included in a budget on Parliament's table. There were big investments in basically everything that Jens Holm highlights here in the debate. That is what we are already doing. Investment funds are already available for greener cities. The urban environment agreements are used to expand public transport and bicycle traffic with bicycle tracks around Sweden. I assume that Jens Holm has noted that in recent years there have been SEK 100 billion spent in wind energy investments thanks to the government's policy. It's just the beginning. There will be even more to come. There is now also an agreement on offshore wind where we will ensure that the connection charges will be paid by the public in order to get much more offshore wind in place. We are doing something big, and it is noticeable in Sweden. Huge investments are now coming into place in the form of non-carbon steel, in battery factories, in changing the car industry to build electric cars and more. It is thanks to a clear objective and to filling in with green budgetary resources that investments are made possible. It is easy to talk, but it is worth remembering that when we had a budget cooperation it was not the Left Party that pushed through green initiatives, but it was the Green Party in that constellation. I very much hope that Jens Holm and the Left Party fill the words of also pursuing green politics, not only in the election movement but also when the policy is to be implemented and in the priorities of the budget work. I haven't seen much of that so far. It is clear that the EU funds that will contribute to added value, that more green policies can be made than otherwise. We were aware of the investments when we designed the budget, and we will know that the investments are in place when we come up with future budgets. Then there is the opportunity to use the money to do what we have already done, namely green investments.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-35	Madam President, I would like The government has also been critical of the EU regulation. The regulation gives the EU, for the first time ever, the opportunity to raise its own resources, that is to say, the first step towards its own fiscal policy. We don't think that's good. On the other hand, we think it is very important that the money is earmarked for sustainable investment. We have said during the negotiations that 37% earmarking is not enough. All the money should go towards sustainable investment. Then Per Bolund is completely wrong about the Left Party's economic policy. Every year we have spent much more money on climate investment than the government has. To the latest infrastructure bill we add SEK 170 billion more than the government, almost exclusively to the railways and bicycle investments. Even during our cooperation, the Left Party pushed through many important reforms in the field of climate change, including more money for public transport. But now we are talking about the EU's recovery money. What I think is important to get answers to in the debate is whether Per Bolund and the rest of the government are going to use the SEK 35 billion from the EU to fill up empty holes in the budget or whether there are new and additional investments. I would like the Minister to comment on the regulatory framework for this. Article 5 states that Member States may not use these funds for recurrent national budgetary expenditure. I take it that the money cannot be used to finance what has long been planned in the state budget. Am I right or wrong, Per Bolund? We also did not get a response to when exactly the Swedish recovery plan will be presented, how it will be presented to Parliament, whether it will be presented and how it will be anchored. I think that the Minister must answer whether what is presented in the plan is what already exists in the state budget or whether there are new additional climate initiatives. I note that Per Bolund says to the newspaper Current Sustainability on 23 February concerning the EU's recovery money that the environment and climate budget for 2021 is already fully funded. I take the view that the measures which should be new climate action are to be incorporated into the budget already fully funded. But that's where he'll be happy to correct me. As far as the investments to be made are concerned, it sounds to Per Bolund that he believes that the money contained in the urban environment agreement is sufficient for investments in wind power, public transport and so on. But the problem is that it is not enough at all. It is good that the government looks to solve the problem of accession in the field of offshore wind power, but a lot of wind power will also be built on land. There, the municipalities already have planning support to develop wind power plans to expand wind power. Such planning support no longer exists. The wind power plans of municipalities today are from 2008 to 2009. Can planning support be envisaged for municipalities to develop new locations where wind farms can be established?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-42	Madam President, I would like It is well worth noting that there has never been so much work done in Swedish environmental policy as in the seven almost eight years that the Green Party has been in the government. It's something I'm incredibly proud of. It is a completely different Sweden we see now compared to the Sweden that was when the Green Party entered government. According to the statistics for the first quarter of 2020, even before the pandemic, we could see a sharp decline in emissions figures. This shows that environmental policy really has an impact. Then we are far from finished, but we have much more to do – which I look forward to. When you sit in government or have a budgetary responsibility and are going to implement budgets, you really see what the priorities are. It is easy to make grand plans in opposition, to finance them with grand tax increases, but when you sit at the negotiating table you show the cards. Jens Holm and I note that when the Left Party summed up the budgetary cooperation with the environmental-partisan and social-democratic government in the run-up to the last elections, it raised 80 reforms that were not environmental and climate reforms at all. It was clear proof that when the Left should then really prioritise within a budgetary framework, it is not the environment and climate that come first, but then it is the second effort. That's where we split up. The Green Party talks a lot about the environment and climate in election movements. We're talking about it in streets and squares, and we're talking about it in contact with the voters. But we also carry out in a government position. I have not yet seen that on the Left side, but I hope that a change is underway. Then there is that, which I think Jens Holm, as a Member of Parliament for quite some time, also knows that in Sweden we have a budget law. We have a budgetary framework that we obviously follow. That regulatory framework says that there are not several different budgetary channels going out to our authorities or to the municipalities and regions, but we have a concerted budgetary process. This means that the money that comes in – whether it is tax money from Swedish citizens or money that comes from the EU budget – must be channelled through the budget in some form. We have already started this work through the budget that we have put on Parliament's table and which will take effect this year, in which, as I said, we made a historically great green effort – despite, I would say, it was a budget that was put in the middle of a burning pandemic with all the huge measures that we had to implement to make Sweden's municipalities work and to get the regions to deliver healthcare. I am convinced that Jens Holm and the rest of the Swedish people see that those measures were absolutely necessary to implement. But even though we were in the midst of a burning pandemic, we made a record green budget. What is presented in the recovery plan will be returned to when the plan is ready and presented. So will Jens Holm. However, it is not true, as Jens Holm says, that the EU has said that it can only use this money for future investments. There are clear wordings under the Regulation that retroactive support for measures can be sought from February 2020. That is the framework that applies, and that applies to all countries. Of course, we have the ambition to decide on the recovery plan as soon as possible. That work is in full swing at the Government Office. We then have a process in which these plans are to be approved by the Commission. It is also possible to lift plans which, for example, the European Council does not think are up to date, what is called the emergency brake. If we enter into such a process, then Parliament will be involved in this work through the EU Board. When it comes to issues that are decided at EU level, it is clear that Parliament is involved – as always in all EU processes.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-51	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can say that I find it a bit sad that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is putting so much energy into old negotiations and old debates. The Environment and Climate Minister knows very well that it was the Green Party that wanted to communicate environmental issues and the Left Party that communicated welfare issues when we had budget cooperation. Nevertheless, we pushed through many good environmental and climate initiatives. Never did we oppose one of the bets that existed. What I would like to know about the process in this and which the Minister is not really giving us an answer to is when this will be presented – it is already in overtime – and whether it will be anchored in the European Council in accordance with the presentation that we have received in the Committee on Finance. Yes or no? I take the Minister's answer as rather disappointing. No new investments are announced in connection with this recovery money. There will be no new investment in sustainable, fair cities, in facilitating the transition from meat to plant-based diets, in investments in public transport or in wind power, for example by facilitating the construction of new wind farms by municipalities. The Minister will be happy to correct me, but the only thing I hear from the Minister is that it is old budget appropriations that are to be picked out and then baked into a recovery plan that is to be sent to Brussels. I do not think that is taking climate policy forward, and that is what we should use these SEK 35 billion for – to take climate policy forward and get a sustainable restart of the Swedish economy. Shouldn't we do that, Per Bolund?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-55	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think it is an important observation that it is the Green Party that is driving through the major green reforms in its government position. What has happened during this government is something unique, not only in Sweden's history but also compared to our world around us, and that is something that I am very proud of. Unfortunately, I have to correct Jens Holm. It is not true that the Left did not oppose environmental efforts. I sat in the room in the budget negotiations and know that is not true, sadly. But it is true that Jens Holm says that it was the Green Party that drove and presented the major environmental efforts that came last term of office, and this also applies to this term of office. It is important to note that Jens Holm heard wrong. It is not that it is only investments that have been made that will be financed and part of the green transition, but we will also make big investments – and we do so continuously. We made record investments in the autumn budget that was presented during a burning pandemic. Nevertheless, we managed to make a priority of the environment and climate, greater than any previous government has done. We have also added a number of additional amending budgets, where we add money to, for example, public transport and other environmental investments. We also have a budget for next year, which is the budget that comes after the pandemic. Then we can be quite sure that we have overcome the infection. We've got another location. We can make efforts to boost the Swedish economy, and then we will of course do so through a green recovery. There we will also benefit from the existence of funds set aside at European level. It's so that Jens Holm runs ahead. He knows how the process works. It's not until the government is done with its work – and we're doing a solid job, because we want it to bear full weight – and present the recovery plan that Jens Holm has the opportunity to review what is included and not included. It is also a process that I will stick to in this debate. It is not possible to comment on work that is still going on. But I am proud that the Green Party and this red-green government have achieved a uniquely large environmental effort. It is something that is now turning Sweden into the first fossil-free welfare country.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-62	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to take any action on the basis of the Government's ambition to review the municipal veto in order to ensure that a dialogue is conducted with interested parties where a wind farm is to be built. Furthermore, Alexandra Anstrell has asked what facts and circumstances form the basis for a decision that a municipality that already today is built with power plants and accounts for a large part of the electricity supply will also be expanded more with wind turbines. She has also asked whether I intend to develop and report a minimum and maximum limit on how much a municipality should contribute to the supply of electricity and whether I have taken any initiative for an analysis to examine the effects of whether the large-scale wind power industry in Jämtland affects the area's ecosystems and biodiversity, which make nature in Jämtland alive. A further question is whether I have any plans to develop national guidelines for rural resources, as well as whether I intend to take any steps to carry out tests for wind farms on the delivery of net CO2 savings and the contribution to the objective of fossil freedom in 2045. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked if I have come to the conclusion that wind farms contribute to the renewal of Sweden's forests and what I base that conclusion on and finally whether I intend to work for increased energy efficiency in an increasingly electrified Sweden where more electricity will be needed in the future. With regard to the first question of ensuring a dialogue with interested parties where a wind farm is to be built, I intend to await the report from the government's investigation into the municipal wind power. The purpose of the report is, as Alexandra Anstrell states, to suggest how the environmental assessment of wind power plants can be more legally secure and predictable. I do not intend to precede the conclusions of the investigation. The investigation shall submit its report by 30 June 202 1. On the question of the facts and circumstances on which decisions on new wind power establishments are based in a municipality: there is – in addition to the part relating to the municipal power and which is therefore subject to review – an established and well-functioning consultation and permit process. This applies regardless of whether the municipality is built with power plants or not. The basis for the consultation between stakeholders – the municipality, the projector, the municipal citizens and other relevant stakeholders – is developed by these parties. The environmental review delegation is responsible for ensuring that the application contains relevant documentation and that it is communicated with relevant stakeholders and decides on permits according to the Environmental Code for Wind Power Establishments. Regarding the question of minimum and maximum limits for the contribution of a municipality to the supply of electricity, there are no plans to introduce such extension requirements. It is up to the market players to decide for themselves where it can be profitable to invest in wind power and to project and apply for a permit at that location. According to the current regulations, the municipalities have the right to refuse wind power within their own municipality through the power of the municipality. A municipality can plan for wind power in its municipality by specifying the appropriate area for wind power in its master plan. As regards analyses of impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity due to wind power establishment, this is done at local level by the County Administrative Board and the Environmental Assessment Delegation in connection with the permit assessment. Unwanted and unacceptable effects of wind power installations shall be identified and analysed in the permit process and shall form part of the decision-making basis. As there is now a review of the municipal wind power, I would like to await the outcome of this work before speaking on the issue of national guidelines for rural resources. The Swedish Parliament, following a proposal from the Government, has adopted the target of 100 per cent of electricity production being renewable in 2040. In recent years there has been rapid technological development in the wind power sector, and costs have fallen. Wind power is now expanding sharply, and I expect that further expansion will help to make the climate transition possible. Through electrification of transport and industry, fossil fuels can be phased out so that we have net zero emissions in 2045. With regard to the issue of wind farms and forest regeneration, the stand-by processes shall take into account target conflicts, and a balance shall be struck in the examination of different interests. It is my view that wind power can be expanded in harmony with the renewal of our forests and in such a way that negative effects on production and the environment can be minimised. As Alexandra Anstrell points out, an increasingly electrified Sweden means an increased need for electricity generation, but also the development of our electricity grids is required for a well-functioning energy system. There is also a need for a variety of other measures; energy efficiency is one of them. Work is under way on a national electrification strategy that will take a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector for rapid, smart and socio-economic electrification to contribute to the 2030, 2040 and 2045 climate targets. Finally, I would like to point out that I intend to continue to follow the issue of wind power closely and to promote the ambience between wind power and other interests and to exploit the potential of wind power produced electricity to contribute effectively to Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare source.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-72	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. For me, it is very important to highlight both the pros and cons of an expanded wind power. It is about what it means both in a broader perspective when it comes to Sweden's future energy supply as well as for the people who live close to planned wind farms and wind farms and the environmental, leisure and cultural values that are affected. I think that the issue of wind power, like any other power supply, needs to be highlighted from different angles in order to ensure, as much as possible, that we make the right choices for the future. Even if the Minister waits for an investigation, one can imagine that there is a desire for things to go in a certain direction when the investigation is about examining the conditions for removing the provision on the municipal veto. If you give a mission in that direction, there must be an idea that you can do it in some other way. Here the Minister does not want to answer, or it may be that the democratic aspect of whether to build wind power in a municipality or not is actually not important for the government and the Green Party. Does Minister Bolund not think it is important to let people who live and work in a rural area think? They are the ones affected by wind power around the knot. Is it not interesting for Minister Bolund and the government that these people should be able to say their own thing? The Minister says in his answer: Then we hear about good wind power is and that it is the one that makes us reach the climate transition. That could be the case. Or it won't be like that. I think it's probably always stupid to put all the eggs in the same basket. All fossil fuels – from nuclear to hydro, wind and solar – must contribute to the electricity system and climate change. I cannot help but compare with a decision that the government is facing regarding a nuclear waste disposal facility. There, the government reviews everything – from the top, from the bottom, backwards and forwards – even after all the expert authorities and all the research said: Yes, this is okay; here you can go. Yet the government continues to examine. But when it comes to wind power, it's a little more loose boliner. It seems that the government has already decided that wind power is the most appropriate form of electricity generation without thinking more about technological developments outside wind power. Isn't that rather strange, Madam President? We must ask ourselves whether we are really making the right choice for the future. Sweden reached its targets for renewable energy in 2030 already in 2018, and it is therefore not quite clear why the government is now striving for wind power with such power. Wouldn't it be good to pause for a while and give an overview to identify the very best, most appropriate and least effective solutions for energy production and electricity consumption? In equestrian sports we usually call this half-life. So it is not a stop, but one prepares the horse and makes it aware that something new is going to happen. I think that more research is needed to land in if we really make the right choice for the future. We can achieve a secure electricity supply if Sweden starts investing in all relevant energy sources, including nuclear power, as well as in research and demonstration facilities. Madam President, I would like More research is needed, but it feels like the government just wants to gallop out. The question must be asked: Why does the government not want to review more opportunities for Sweden to achieve a better climate change?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for an important though very extensive interpellation! It will be a rather difficult debate to conduct when eight questions have been asked in a single interpellation. As Alexandra Anstrell knows, we don't have much time. It might be a tip for future debates to try to divide it up so that you can have a better dialogue on all the important issues raised by Alexandra Anstrell. There were many hints in what Alexandra Anstrell said that I thought was a bit disturbing. I have, like the government, been very clear, even in the mission to the investigation that looks at wind power, with the fact that the democratic process is extremely important and that the municipalities and residents that are affected should of course have the opportunity to say their own thing. This applies regardless of the outcome of the investigation. It was a prerequisite for the investigation, which it is also working on. However, it is very difficult to understand that the only way to have a democratic process would be a municipal veto. If that is the case, then we must have municipal vetoes in all areas. I haven't seen the Moderates push it that way. Of course, we have a permit test for wind power, just as for other exploitations. In this context, the authorities and municipalities have the opportunity to speak and also to hold consultations, which, as I know, occurs on almost every occasion. Local residents will then have the opportunity to express their views. However, there are problems with the way wind power testing works today. This is highlighted by many actors on different sides when it comes to the view of wind power. It is difficult to know which decision will come. Anyone who expands and spends a large amount of money to make plans may at the last moment get a no in the municipality. But it might as well be the other way. A municipal citizen can be convinced that there will be a no from the municipality, but then in the end there will be a yes. Then you can feel deceived by your democratic right to go in and test the process. So I think it is wise to review the regulations regularly. So do we, and here is another doubt in what Alexandra Anstrell said: that we should put all the eggs in the same basket and invest in a single energy type. Anyone can see that this is not the case. Sweden has a wide range of energy sources in its energy supply. No one is going to change this. However, we should not use fossil power, as Alexandra Anstrell may have accidentally called it, but the goal we are working towards is to have a 100 percent renewable electricity system. This was also supported by the Moderates, at least at first, until the energy agreement was dropped. We have a surplus of electricity, which we should be able to welcome together. That is what has enabled us to keep Europe's lowest electricity prices, over the year, which is a prerequisite for us, for example, to switch from electricity from coal and oil in the industrial sector. This is also what enables, among other things, the large investments that are now taking place in industrial processes around Sweden. We have a surplus of 25 t erawattimm annually, which will increase to 35 t erawattimm ar. This also leads to the export of electricity, which replaces a great deal of fossil fuels in Europe. There are estimates showing that 12 million tonnes of electricity exports today are replaced and do not enter the atmosphere and contribute to climate change. There are continuous reviews of Sweden's energy supply. Wind plans and municipal outline plans are made where wind energy is planned. So the picture of us just working on the exact same model all the time is just not right. We do continuous work, both at government level and at municipal level, and consider how wind power can be expanded and where it fits best. We also say no to wind power where it does not fit.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-91	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree that there were lots of questions. These are very interesting and important issues. But I can come back with more interpellations. I've already created a hashtag, # Fridaymedbolund, so maybe I'll see you here again. Excess electricity is spoken of very often. Yet there are days when we actually do not have enough electricity and you have to choose whether to vacuum or shower. I don't think it'll last. In fact, I think we need clarity and that we have electricity all the time, not just when the wind is blowing. Madam President, I would like I'm pretty handy. I like to see things in front of me. Maybe that's why I love maps; it's easy to understand contexts. But as far as the Green Party's policy is concerned, the map does not stick together. The Green Party wants to increase the proportion of protected nature and double the proportion of protected forests. Then we'll have lots of new wind turbines. Where are we going to fit? Where will our biodiversity fit? And where will the Sami and the reindeer fit? Those who have chosen to live and want to live with a view of fantastic expanse, whether it is the horizon of the Stockholm archipelago, the expanse of Ragunda or the mountains of Offerdal, where will they have their breathing hole, their place to live and live? According to statistics, there were 4,333 wind turbines installed in 2020. They had an effect of 27,6 terawatt hours. A total of 159 terawatt hours of electricity were produced in Sweden last year. However, according to calculations by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the future electrical system must be able to meet a use of at least 200 terawatt hours to 2045. These calculations include an energy efficiency rate that is double today's. The consultancy company WSP has made calculations and believes that production will need to increase to about 230 terawatt hours per year over the next 20 – 25 years. The energy authority's calculations are around 200 − 230 terawatt hours. The energy companies say about 310 terawatt hours, which is actually almost a doubling, or, as my party leader said in a debate: it's like six whole Baltics. If half of our electricity production is to be from the wind, we need about 150 terawatt hours. That would mean 16 000 wind turbines in the round, if they are not built hugely high, because they will of course be able to produce more. But it may not help anyway, because in many places in northern Sweden where wind farms are now being built it is actually not very windy. Perhaps that's why developers propose to build turbines up to 300 meters high with rotor blades so large that they could cover eight football fields. Normal turbines would therefore not be economic. 16 000 wind turbines and still counting, depending on the proportion of wind – if you want 80 per cent from wind, you would need almost 30 000 wind turbines. Where will they fit? Is it so smart to put all the eggs in one basket? Are we making the right investments for the future? Can the Minister say with certainty that this is the best thing? I can't say for sure. I am thinking of all the nature that is being destroyed and how unstable wind power is compared to, for example, nuclear power when it comes to being able to shower and vacuum at the same time, if possible. Many people have chosen to move to land to the mountains or in the archipelago. What does Minister Bolund say to those who have chosen this life but who are now threatened by becoming a neighbor with 250 - 300 meter high winds? What happens when there's no wind? I don't know if the minister's been on the mountain and been through one of those mornings when you wake up and the ponds are mirror blank and it's completely quiet. Any little movement can be heard. It's totally still. If you just walk in a cone, you can hear it.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-102	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it would be valuable if we could first stick to the truth. There was no one this winter who had to choose between showering or vacuuming, as Alexandra Anstrell is trying to pretend. There was electricity in the sockets throughout Sweden. The crisis that the Moderates are constantly talking about was that the price went up in the short term. On the other hand, the Moderates should also know that the price of electricity in Sweden is among the lowest in the EU when it is knocked out throughout the year. It is because we have an efficient electricity market that also controls production, so that we get more production, partly through government action and partly by having a market price for electricity through the Nordpool power exchange. I thought the Moderates were for us to have a market system even for electricity. Alexandra Anstrell is welcome to correct me if she thinks it shouldn't be. I've been to the mountain. I'm a biologist and love to be out in the woods and land and I'm as often as I can. I see that there are conflict goals in the forest and nature. I am the first to say that we must relate to them. We must strike a balance between different interests. It is something that I work with in my work as Minister of the Environment and Climate Change every day. That also applies to wind power. I, the Green Party or the government, have never said that wind power will be built everywhere. It is also well known that there will be quite a lot of rejections of projected wind turbines around Sweden at sea and on land precisely because it is estimated that other interests outweigh, such as unbroken mountain ranges or untouched natural forest areas. But the Green Party and the government have also shown that we can combine more renewable energy with more protected nature. Through the work we have done, we have succeeded in both of these things. We have received investments of 100 billion in wind power in just the last few years. These are fantastic investments that also push down electricity prices and make the industry competitive and can make these amazing leaps forward. I am concerned that with a moderate government that is unable to create the conditions for this development, we would not have had the competitiveness we have or the hope for the future that is now being seen in Swedish industry. This is precisely because renewable electricity is available at low prices. It is a golden combination to replace the coal in the blast furnaces with hydrogen. The fact that the Moderates now seem to be conducting some kind of anti-wind campaign is, in my opinion, an alarm signal, especially for those industrial representatives who now have great plans and will do something that is world-unique, namely to replace old and sometimes centuries-old technologies with new modern ones and lead Sweden and the world into the future. It is also possible to build more wind power, just as we are going to build more solar energy. Production from solar cells on our roofs will increase significantly through the measures that the government has put in place. We are also investing in hydrogen technology, which makes it possible to use the industry on the one hand and store electricity from windy days that can be used on the days when it blows less. We have great ambitions when it comes to expanding offshore wind power, which will be able to provide Sweden with even more renewable electricity. The Green Party has proposed that we have 90 terawatt hours from offshore wind power, that is, more than twice as much as Swedish nuclear power produces annually, in addition to what is produced on land. I would also like to say that if wind power is built where it is not particularly windy, it is not a very good developer. Then the municipality has also made a mistake when you have made a plan that does not match the needs that exist. You're supposed to build wind power where it blows.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-112	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Environment and Climate is trying to paint me as some kind of wind power opponent. I thought I was clear in my opening speech, but I should repeat that I think the issue of wind power is important. As with other power supplies, it needs to be highlighted from all angles in order to ensure that we make the right choices for the future as far as possible. I think you need to be careful. But need to spend research on what the wind turbines actually have on wildlife, on birds and bats. How are reindeer affected when they spend a long time on baits where there is wind power? Is it really so clever with wind power in our cold climate, and what happens when ice is formed on the leaves and ice shoes are thrown away many meters? Should such questions not be studied more, or do the Minister and the government think that experimenting with their own citizens and the forest on which the country is based is all right? Madam President, I would like A Portuguese thesis on a horse breeder shows significant damage to the foals after wind turbines have been set up nearby, ceteris paribus. For example, most of the foals were born with a goat's head, which has never happened before. This is, of course, just a story and a thesis, but it is important to think about this: Should we not do more research on the effects of wind power before laying all the eggs in that basket? In both Ragunda and Offerdal there are residents, associations and Sami who are very critical of wind power establishment there. The Sami believe that this applies not only to Offerdal but to the whole of Sápmi. Research has been seen to show that this does not stick together with the reindeer industry. Are we making the right choice for the future? Now I have not even figured out how birds are affected or how emergency services are affected by the fact that they may have to deal with fires several hundred meters up and so on. However, I do not feel that I receive very many answers from Minister Bolund on this issue.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-117	Madam President, I would like It is sad that Alexandra Anstrell has that view. I think I gave a very comprehensive answer. It was also very long, because there were many questions to answer. But anyone who hesitates can watch this broadcast and hear the answers I gave in my first post. It is also the case, as I think Alexandra Anstrell really knows, that wind power is constantly being studied and developed. The wind turbines now planned and built are completely different from those built 10, 15 or 20 years ago. They make less noise and affect less. They produce more because they are constantly becoming more efficient. This means that you do not have to build as many to get equal production, which means that conflicts of interest can also be reduced. I am the first to agree with the basic principle of Alexandra Anstrell. That's where we're in complete agreement. There are conflicts of interests. There are definitely places where wind power should not be built. It is also precisely the policy that the government is already pursuing. The government, municipalities and others actually say no to wind power where it is not suitable. Trying to give another picture is actually misleading. It's not consistent with what reality looks like. There are quite plenty of times when other interests are more important than the interest in building wind power, and that will continue to be the case. Then I am very happy about the great interest that Alexandra Anstrell shows in living animals and nature and biodiversity. I guess I just have to hope that it also shows up in the Moderates' priorities when making your budget, for example. So far, the Moderates have each time cut heavily on the funds that the government has set aside for the protection and management of valuable nature, which is one of the most important efforts we can make to create just the space for biodiversity and ensure that we hand over biodiversity and a nature that lives and thrives for our children and grandchildren. That's not what I've seen from the Moderates so far, but I hope this is a turnaround.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-121	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me what I intend to do in order for Sweden to comply with Parliament's decision that we should have a wolf tribe of 170– 270 wolves. Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to work so that people living in vargät län feel safe. Runar Filper has asked Jennie Nilsson if she considers it fair to follow a directive from 1992, when there were 15 – 20 wolves in Sweden and the situation with wolf looked different throughout Europe, and if she has the ambition to push the question of moving the wolf from Annex 4, strictly protected, to Appendix 5, administratively. The work is so distributed in the government that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I will respond to the interpellations jointly. Parliament's approval of the then government's predator bill meant that the parliament decided on several targets for the wolf tribe in Sweden. One of the targets refers to the reference value for favourable conservation status of the Swedish wolf population, i.e. a target for the number of wolves that can be considered sufficient for the Swedish wolf population to be considered as having a favourable conservation status. The Parliament decided that the target for the reference value should be somewhere between 170 and 270 individuals. According to the bill, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency) was to assess where the exact reference value was low and report it to the European Commission in accordance with the Species and Habitats Directive. According to the European Commission's guidelines, the reported reference value cannot be an interval but must be an exact value. The Species and Habitats Directive requires Member States to report reference values for all species listed in the Annexes to the Directive every six years. The parliamentary decision was about the reporting of predators that Sweden did in 2013. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported in 2013 that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden was 270. The reference value for favourable conservation status is not a maximum number but a value that must not be less than. The vulnerability analysis underlying the benchmark was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects. The Swedish population of wolf has had a higher inbreeding rate than was included in the analysis, and the analysis therefore contradicted the European Commission's guidelines on the scientific basis of the reference value. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that – taking into account the population's inbreeding rate – at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment was supported by the Supreme Administrative Court, as in a judgment in 2016 (HFD 2016 ref. 89) stated that there is no reason to question the scientific evidence on which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has built its assessment. A long-term sustainable predatory policy must focus on co-existence between man and wolf. Viltskadecenter has compiled and evaluated how close wolves should be handled. The measures to be implemented in a given area will depend on the problem situations that have arisen and the assessment of how they are likely to develop. The possibility to grant protection hunting is available after careful assessments by the County Administrative Board, i.e. an application for protection hunting received. In order to grant such an application, the Hunting Regulation and the EU Species and Habitats Directive require that three criteria are met, each one individually. There shall be a serious injury, there shall be no other appropriate solution and conservation of the species' favourable conservation status shall not be made more difficult. In 2015 and 2016, the Commission carried out a fitness check evaluation of the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. Following the evaluation, the Commission concluded that the nature conservation directives are highly relevant and effective. Since the Commission considers that the directive fulfils its objectives, no changes will be made. The government's assessment is that there are therefore no conditions to pursue the issue of moving wolf from Annex 4, strictly protected, to Appendix 5, administrativelyable.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-131	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for trying to answer. In 2013, the Swedish Parliament decided that we should have a wolf tribe of 170 – 270 wolves. The determination of conservation levels would take place within the range 170 – 270. That was clear in the parliamentary decision and the bill. It was also decided that wolf regeneration should not take place in reindeer husbandry areas. It was also clear in the bill. But what has happened, Madam President? Of two possible errors, the government makes both mistakes. It increases the wolf population to over 270, and it now allows wolf regenerations in reindeer husbandry areas, contrary to what was written in the bill and what was decided. In addition, Madam President, in his reply the Minister tries to shift responsibility to courts and conservation agencies. I would just like to inform the Minister that the highest decision-making body in Sweden is the Swedish Parliament. We make laws and regulations, and they are to be followed by individuals in this country as well as by the government and conservation agencies. Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has obviously completely ignored the parliamentary decision of 2013. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament is Sweden's highest decision-making body. This is the Riksdag. This is where we make the decisions that both governments and the people of the country actually have to comply with. It is therefore absolutely regrettable that the Minister and the Government are ignoring Parliament's decisions. The same government goes around the world talking about democracy. They claim that others threaten democracy while ignoring decisions made democratically here in Parliament. It's serious, very serious. Madam President, I would like If the government wants to change the decision from 2013, which is quite possible, the government should probably return to the Riksdag to anchor it and make new decisions. Why hasn't the government? Instead, in 2015, the Government tasked the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency with reviewing the number of wolves, although it stated in the 2013 decision that the number of wolves should be set at 170 – 270, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency made the decision that we need 300 wolves in Sweden. The big problem is that we have too much wolf in Sweden. If we are to cope with both biodiversity and the increased food production that we want in the country, we cannot have this great wolf tribe. This was also the reason why the Riksdag decided that we should be between 170 and 270 wolves. I was going to ask you a few questions here today that I hope the Minister will answer. Why did the government not return to Parliament regarding the number? It was quite possible to anchor the new position here in Parliament, wasn't it? Today we do not have 300 wolves in the country, but we have 400, perhaps up to 500. It is far from the Environmental Protection Agency's recommended level of 300. So why have the government and the minister not returned to anchor the new? Then, Madam President, I would like to ask: has the Minister visited a farm affected by wolf attacks? And who decides and lays down laws, rules and boundaries here in Sweden – is it the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency or the Swedish Parliament?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-140	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Bolund for his reply, but I am surprised that Minister Bolund does not once mention concerns – people's concerns in rural areas. Because it's the one that's in focus here. At some point we must move forward in the predatory debate, not least in order for people in rural areas to have confidence in Parliament and to show that we are putting their security first. Madam President, I would like What are the consequences when security issues are not taken seriously by the Riksdag and the Government? That is an important question to ask. I think you should look at the broken farm animals and domestic animals that are around. You should listen to parents who are afraid to let their children out on the farm because their land is crossed by several vargrevir. One should take seriously that preschools do not dare to let the children be out and play on the farm because there is pervasive wolf. Madam President, I would like The question is, what are the consequences when the government sends the signal, no, we do not need to act here? Instead, you turn the crane a little bit more and release a little more insecurity. I would say that the plug has come out completely after the Green Party has been in power and has an impact on how predatory policy is to be designed. That this really is how you see it when you look at the Värmland map. Let's put aside MVP and Gybs for a moment and actually talk about people's security, because it's the one that should be at the forefront of this endless wolf debate. There, Madam President, the Minister for the Environment has missed the whole point. In the Minister's reply, he does not mention that point, and this says what priority is being made. I think it is really disrespectful to put the wolf's freedom before children's rights to feel safe and out playing and in front of parents' security in letting children out. Madam President, I would like I wonder if the Minister has really stopped and wondered why all these questions about the wolf are constantly being asked. I am reasonably sure that this is because a large number of people, including voters, in the countryside are experiencing enormous insecurity and are contacting us as elected representatives to hear. My question to Minister Bolund is: how does the Minister intend to deal with people's sense of insecurity in rural areas and in the most densely populated counties, such as my Värmland? The time has come for the government to do what it has been told to do. Six years have passed since the Environment and Agriculture Committee presented a committee initiative for the creation of a wildlife agency. The government clearly shows that it ignores Parliament's request. I may find that very strange in view of the enormous group of voters who have an interest in this issue, but above all all all all those people who feel insecure in the countryside because there are so many wolves in their neighbourhood.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-148	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the Environment for his response to the interpellation. It wasn't much of a response, but I thank you anyway. Nor did I expect a direct answer. It is remarkable that such strict use is made of an almost thirty-year-old directive which is allowed to govern a species, in this case the wolf, which is to be considered strictly protected or managed by hunting. The situation down on the continent should be subordinate and completely irrelevant to what the Swedish reality looks like. That's how it has to be. We had 15 to 20 wolves when the Habitats Directive was introduced here in Sweden, and at the last inventory we had 365. With the rate of rejuvenation that takes place without regular licence hunts and with the difficulty of obtaining protection hunting, we are heading for a situation of 400 to 500 wolves. It must now be considered to have achieved favourable conservation status and thus be able to move from strictly protected to managed. The Annexes to the Species and Habitats Directive must be given greater flexibility so that the current facts, local considerations and research become more important in the decision-making documents. The annexes to the Directive should be less static and more flexible, in other words more adapted to changes in nature, wildlife and society. It is now time to move the wolf in the annexes from strict protection to an administrative nature. We want to have a management system that makes people have confidence in society as well as in the administration of wolves. Madam President, I would like A major and serious problem is that the authorities do not implement the wolf policy that has been decided. In fact, the fact that the state implements what Parliament has decided is not a high demand in a democracy. In May 2020, five parties announced to the government that the government will implement the predatory policy decided in 2013 and that the responsible authority will receive clearer directives. It is telling that such a clear majority in the Riksdag is able to inform and inform about the implementation of decided policies. The announcement is that wolf policy should not become more lax in terms of numbers of animals and concentrations, but rather make decisions a reality. We know that, almost eight years after the parliamentary decision, Parliament still wants an active management of the wolf and that the direction decided is firm. Can the Minister here and now respond to how the government is handling the announcement? It is the government that, through the authorities, will implement what the Riksdag decides. There's a need for a license hunt that regulates the size of the tribe. We are convinced of this in many parties. It is too difficult to get protection hunting, and we see that concentrations in wolf-rich areas are increasing even though they are to be reduced. We therefore hope that the government will seize this opportunity and be clear with the authorities in accordance with political decisions. In fact, the fact that the state implements what Parliament has decided is not a high demand in a democracy. License hunting must reduce concentrations in the counties where the wolf tribe is at its highest, and licence hunting must then take place repeatedly, otherwise we will have an unsustainable situation here in the countryside. Where the species has favourable conservation status, it shall be considered to be administrative, not strictly protected in the Annexes. That is not the way it is intended and meant from the outset in the directives.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-158	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint, Runar Filper and Sten Bergheden have asked a number of very relevant questions about wolf. That is why I chose to go up in the debate. However, I do not think that they receive very many good answers from the Minister to their questions. In this parish, the Swedish Parliament, we have decided on a maximum number of wolves that we should have in Sweden. Yet the government wriggles and refers to something else. We have science and research, and science and research are great. But there is research that shows different things. In Appendix 1 of the Species and Habitats Directive, we can read that we should promote research and that we should place great emphasis on taking account of economic, social and cultural needs. But this research is, cautiously said, quite non-existent. The Species and Habitats Directive is the governing document. The Commission has a committee to advise Member States on the interpretation of the Directive. Here, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency seems to have obtained free interpretation rights from the Government, past both the Riksdag and the Government. At the same time, the work ignores the actual text of the directive. Instead, it chooses to deal with non-binding recommendations and guidance. I think it's pretty easy to get lost among all the research reports produced in the current. Some contain good facts, but many also consist of opinions and fears. The recommendations made by the Commission go much further than the text of the Directive. In Sweden, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has interpreted the recommendations as binding and uses them as legal guidance documents. Madam President, I would like The wolf doesn't know national boundaries. It does not know whether it is in Sweden or in Norway. As in the Directive's description of the territory, the range must be defined as the natural area of the species, that is, Scandinavia. We're not doing that today, but we should. Then we have this with security, which Marléne Lund Kopparklint was on. I feel that the Minister is slipping to the answer about how he intends to work to ensure the security of the countryside, especially in the most dense counties represented by Marléne Lund Kopparklint. You do not long to have a wolf on the corner and to have to worry when the children are going to school and if they are going to be able to go to the bus or if you actually have to take them instead. You shouldn't have to worry about not being able to go out and walk the dog and not being able to go out and run whenever you want. Having a wolf walking against you when you're out with the dog isn't something you enjoy. It is, of course, a fantastic experience of nature to meet a wolf in the open. But it must not be forgotten, Madam President, that the wolf is a predator. The wolf is the largest wild dog. A full - grown wolf weighs between 30 and 50 kilos and is a typical top computer. Only man and tiger pose a threat to the wolf, and as far as I know, we do not have so many tigers here. But we have a lot of people. Especially in rural areas, people often move alone. You send the children alone to school, to the bus or somewhere else. It is dark at night and poor lighting when you go home from work or from something else. The problem that arises when there are too many wolves is that they are getting closer to the communities. I have experienced it myself, Madam President, at home in Haninge, around the corner of the townhouse, in the schoolyard. And the other year the wolf emptied an entire sheep pasture in Södertälje. You can't have wolves around schools and preschools. That is why the question raised by Marléne Lund Kopparklint remains: what does the Government intend to do to ensure the security of rural areas? It can't be possible to have to choose whether to stay or not because there are wolves around the corner.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-167	Madam President, I would like I thank all the debaters. These are important issues. I am pleased that we can conduct the discussion in the Swedish Parliament on these issues that affect many people. At the same time, it is important to note what the decisions taken in Parliament are actually about. What is the decision? The decision taken in 2013 was a decision that was just about what to submit to the European Commission for Sweden's reporting to the Species and Habitats Directive – the reference value. It was important, as I hope Members will note, that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also complied with this decision, i.e. that a reference value of 270 wolves was sent in. The decision taken at an interval was not possible simply because it was contrary to the rules that we jointly – the Member States – have set up at European level. I hope that it is respected and that it does not force an authority to violate common EU rules. What is also important to note is that the decision also stated that, according to the proposal, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would be tasked with assessing the exact reference value for wolf and reporting it to the European Commission. According to existing guidelines, this should be done at regular intervals. Therefore, in 2015, the Government gave a mission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding the reference value, simply because new knowledge has come to light. In the course of time, knowledge develops. It was noted that there is a higher inbreeding rate than was included in the study and analysis carried out earlier. It is also what has led to a broad scientific basis that has led to updated analyses. On the basis of this analysis, it examined what is required for the population to have a common conservation status. This analysis shows that at least 300 wolves are needed. This is science, and that is what European rules are actually based on. Countries should base their positions on reference values on science. This research has been thoroughly tested. It has been tested by discussing with different researchers and landing in a value. But it has also been tested, which is quite unique, in a court review where the Supreme Administrative Court, as said, concluded that the basis was relevant and correct. The question then is: do Members mean that they should go against the Court in this case and appeal the judgment? Somewhere we need to be aware of the reality we are in. Sweden is a member of the EU, just like the other EU-27 Member States. This means that the regulations we lay down at EU level apply to all Member States, including Sweden. If you are not satisfied with these rules you can try to influence, and so does Sweden on many occasions. In this case, a recent review of the Species and Habitats Directive has been carried out. It was concluded that it is relevant scientifically. It is not out of date, but it is governed properly according to the EU's assessment. The question then is: should we deal with this, or what is the alternative to accepting the decisions taken at EU level that are binding on countries? Do Members want to go against this decision, or is it the view of Members that we should leave the EU in order not to be covered by the common EU rules? It's still a little hard to understand. I think it is incredibly important that it is safe to live all over Sweden. That is why we also have compensation for those who have been affected by wolf cases. The compensation has increased to 100% this year, unlike 80% in the previous moderate-led government, for example. But we also have the opportunity to hunt for protection, and we have increased our knowledge of nearby wolves and how to handle them.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-175	Madam President, I would like I can begin with the Minister's last speech. What we are asking for is very simple. In fact, we are asking this government to comply with Parliament's decision. If you intend to do something else, or think you have to do something else, then you will return in the name of reasonableness to the Swedish Parliament and anchor it and say that you must now do something else and correct the decision. It hasn't happened. Instead, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been given free opportunities to continue the development towards more and more wolves in Sweden. The EU has not said that we need 450 – 500 wolves in Sweden. Nor has the EU said that we should have wolf regeneration in reindeer husbandry areas, which the government has now given the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency the opportunity to implement. These are two decisions that run counter to what the Riksdag has decided, and they have not been reinstated here in the Riksdag. This is serious. Parliament is the country's highest decision-making body. Both individuals and the government will follow the decisions they make here, or other decisions will be made. I still have no answer from the Minister to why they did not return to Parliament to anchor this. I still haven't got an answer to why in this situation, when the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has concluded that we should have at least 300 wolves, we should have 400 – 500 wolves in Sweden or what the government has done to reduce the pressure that exists in rural areas. I also received no answer as to whether the Minister has been out visiting some of the wolf-affected farms around the country that have had their sheep killed or injured. The sheep have thrown away their fetuses, and it is difficult to get them pregnant again. I hope the Minister has visited them and discussed them. I have been visiting down in Ulricehamn and discussed a whole new vargrevir there. People are now worried about having their animals out in the pastures. Wild animals are being killed around the farm, and people are now considering giving up domestication. The Minister for the Environment should also be the Minister for the Rural Environment. We have the biodiversity and grazing animals that need to be out there. We are going to produce food in this country; we are not going to produce a wolf strain that is too large and that we are not able to regulate. It is clear that we can do this in Sweden. We have a majority here in Parliament who want to reduce the wolf population. But the government opposes this and has handed over all responsibility to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. You can't hide behind the Environmental Protection Agency. It is the Minister and the Government who are the highest responsible for the policies implemented in this country, whether or not it is the authorities who implement it. While rural people struggle against poor profitability and struggle for their farms, the state allocates resources, staff and time to check that the number of wolves is increasing in Sweden. This is a mockery of the countryside. This government has better control of the wolves than it has of the serious crime in this country. There are hardly more wolves that the countryside needs to grow and develop. There is a majority here in Parliament to reduce the number of wolves significantly. I hope the Minister will reply and would like to repeat the questions; I hope that the Minister has written them down.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-188	Madam President, I would like When you sit and listen to Minister Bolund you need to wake up a bit, I think. Why was this decision made in Parliament from the beginning? Was it for biodiversity, or was it to limit the strain so that it would not grow too large? I think a lot was about people's security. In the run-up to this decision, I think people had addressed their local politicians for help because they saw that the wolf tribe was getting too big. Madam President, I would like Research in all honour – Minister Bolund talks about it, and that is the basis for the decisions we made in 2013. But I would like to ask Minister Bolund a question: where is the research on how the wolf affects people's everyday lives and about the financial losses people have to make when they close their businesses because they are not able to run them? People come out in the morning with their children and see torn sheep and ewes rejecting their fetuses – where is the research on it? Where are the government's analyses on this? Where is Minister Bolund out in the countryside? Is he talking to the people who get caught up in this? That is a relevant question. We do not need to leave the EU in order to reduce our wolf strain, because this is a decision that we ourselves, for some inscrutable reason, have taken through the Environmental Protection Agency. Madam President, I would like For questions about when the game authority will get started, the answer is often that this is still being prepared. After all, a wildlife agency would be the solution to these issues. This is almost ludicrous. How long can you prepare a question? Either the officials sit and have coffee all day, which I do not believe is true, or is it a fact that the government opposes the announcement of the Riksdag, even though this is an extremely important issue for Sweden. Madam President, I would like I think that this is disrespectful to the voters and to the people who feel this insecurity. Everyone knows that we elected representatives are a link between voters and important issues that they want us to address in the Riksdag and that we have also addressed in the Riksdag and made decisions on. This is an issue that thousands of voters have raised – they want a game agency. It is therefore absolutely incredible that the government is delaying the work by preparing the question, or whatever it is doing. It is also provocative that the government instead of removing tasks from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency adds additional tasks. The government is commissioning people to do what the hunters have done in the past and to spend money on various organisations that are going to do game care and other things. Is it democracy to do so when a parliamentary majority has said something completely different? It is now important for the government to stop doing this and to set up the wildlife agency on which the Parliament has issued an announcement, so that we can get the predatory debate in order and, above all, take people's fears seriously. I really think that Minister Bolund should get out in the countryside and listen to what people have to say on this issue.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-197	Madam President, I would like Although I did not receive any further reply, I thank the Minister for his efforts. Where a species has favourable conservation status, it shall be moved from strictly protected to managed. This applies, inter alia, to wolf, which should be administrative in accordance with the EU directive on species and habitats. It is not breaking any EU rules as the Minister said. The Minister simply brings this fact to Brussels on behalf of Sweden – it is not more difficult than that. The Parliament has indicated that wolf policy should be implemented. The Swedish democrats have long said that the authorities do not implement the wolf policy that has been decided. We have seen a parliamentary majority through announcements time and again on various issues. I repeat: the state's implementation of what Parliament decides are not high demands in a democracy. License hunting must be carried out in order to reduce concentration in the counties where the wolf tribe is most dense, and licence hunting should then take place recurrently. The regulatory framework must allow protection hunting decisions in the event of first wolf attack on, for example, dogs. How does the Government see that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency does not comply with the parliamentary decision on the limit for favourable conservation status, but instead runs over the decision made by our elected representatives? The parliamentary decision said that favourable conservation status would lie somewhere between 170 and 270 wolves, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency decided that it would be 270. So far well, but the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency decided on a new level of at least 300 wolves in violation of Parliament's wishes. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency then ran democratic decisions from the game management delegation and stated that there should be wolf rejuvenations in Jämtland, as the previous speaker here mentioned. This happened despite the fact that the county's wildlife management delegation had decided by a majority that Jämtland should not have any wolves. That's what even the County Administrative Board and the County Governor said in their Cooperation Council. The democratic process is eliminated when a government works makes decisions of this kind that run counter to what a democratically appointed group under the county administrative board has established. How does the Minister feel about the failure to comply with democratic decisions? Will instructions and regulatory letters to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency be reviewed and be able to be amended in order to follow more democratically made decisions? What is the reality of upholding an old directive of 30 years instead of updating itself to the current situation? Management of wolf has become more of natural science and research than wolf biology, inbreeding and genetic variation boiled to molecules. That has basically been all the focus on this. However, there has been little or no focus on the people, domestic animals and industries affected. They have not been taken into account.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-205	Madam President, I would like Minister Bolund noted that the government has increased knowledge of approaching wolves and how to handle them. Then I thought spontaneously: How? How will the individual, who stands there alone and meets the wolf around the corner, on the schoolyard or wherever it is, be protected by the government's acquisition of more knowledge? When you stand there completely unprotected, you're not so cocky, I can assure you. How will those who live with anxiety and insecurity because they have wolves around the corner feel safer because the government has gained more knowledge? The minister reduces people's anxiety. I think it's rude. Madam President, I would like The degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden needs to increase, of course based on different factors but one is that someone has to raise animals so that we get meat that we can eat. They're not all vegetarians. The wolf is a good swimmer. I have mentioned in this House before that we in Stockholm County have a lot of archipelago. The wolves easily enter the baits that are open to water. They are encouraged to fence off to the sea and water, but it cannot be reasonable for us to close off the entire Stockholm archipelago. In Molstaberg, which is 50 minutes away from the chamber, there is a farm that has had a lot of wolf attacks, both in pastures without predatory fences and in pastures with predator-repellent fences. They came in despite fences. When people have had repeated wolf attacks on their animals, entered the pasture and met with a massacre of bloody animals that are still alive but gasping because the trachea is damaged, then the government needs to take it seriously. And that people are worried, the government needs to take it seriously. Why don't they?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-210	Madam President, I would like As I have said before, but which may be worth repeating because security issues have come up a number of times, it is very important for me and the government to be able to feel safe throughout the country. It is important that we find an opportunity to have a coexistence between the predators we have – it is not just the wolf but many predators – and the activities that are carried out around our country. I have now been Minister for the Environment for three months during a burning pandemic, so the opportunity to make study visits has been limited for me and all of us in politics. I think it is important to listen to all the voices. That is also something I intend to do. However, it is important to point out that we have many systems that we have reinforced to make it easier for people to operate and not be subjected to various forms of attacks. Compared to previous governments, including the moderate-led government, we have strengthened the compensation for those who have been affected and also the compensation for wolf protection in order to ensure that there are no wolf attacks. Compensation has increased from March this year, so 100% of the costs can now be reimbursed, unlike 80% when it was the Moderates who ruled this policy. It is possible to hunt for protection when wolves have come too close or exposed people and animals to danger. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also has the opportunity to decide on a licence hunt, if it is assessed that the conservation status of the wolf is fulfilled. Unlike what is heard here from the speaker's chair, we have increased our knowledge of how to handle wolves that get too close. It is a knowledge that spreads to the whole country, not just to the government. Since there seems to be some misunderstanding, it is worth pointing out that we have not changed the legislation regarding predator management. We have a decree of 2009, which was decided under the previous government, on the management of bear, wolf, wolverine, loo and golden eagle. There is a clear process that is still being followed. This means that the county administrative boards shall make proposals for the minimum number of rejuvenations per year to which the administration shall aim. The county administrative boards' proposals are prepared by the county's wildlife management delegation and then decided in the respective cooperation councils, which in turn submits the proposals to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. So it is far from just one authority that this work is carried out, but it is a large and broad work. As I said, there is also the possibility of licence hunting when it would be possible. Precisely because we have not changed the legislation, we have been criticised by the European Commission. Since 2011, we have an open infringement case, in which the European Commission claims that Sweden, by allowing the hunting of wolves, as we still do, does not comply with our obligations under the directive. The Commission also refers, of course, to what it looks like in other countries, such as Germany where there are not 300 or 400 wolves but 1 300 wolves or Spain where there are 2 500 wolves or Italy where there are 2 400 wolves. The European Commission then asks why Sweden has such a low level. But as I said, we haven't changed the rules or the law. The European Commission believes that Sweden allows for an over-extensive hunting of wolves. There is also a preliminary ruling from the European Court of Justice called the Tapiola judgment. It makes it clear that the possibility of deciding on exemptions under the Species and Habitats Directive is limited and that the Swedish authorities must take the preliminary ruling into account and make a balanced assessment of the conditions for a possible decision on the hunting of wolves. We have common EU rules, which Members do not seem to want to pretend about, which are binding on the Member States and which we have to follow as a nation.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-220	Madam President, I would like You'll be amazed how poorly the minister is taught on this issue. He talks about the fact that we have the same legislation as we have had in the past. Yes, we do. The difference is that this government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, have increased the number of wolves up to 450 - 500. That's the problem. The legislation works, but you have zero track of wolf development here in the country. That is what creates problems in rural areas, not legislation. Then I note that I did not get an answer to my questions about why the government has not returned to Parliament and anchored its decisions and why it has ignored the decision regarding rejuvenation in reindeer husbandry areas. I can also note that the Minister mentioned the wildlife management delegations. Yes, we have made two decisions here in Parliament, 2015 and 2018, that we will strengthen the game management delegations now that the county boards are actually trying to place even more wolf in the country on the government's mission. What is interesting is that the first announcement came to the conclusion that the government has added more people to the game missions that are not related to hunting and landownership. This reduces the power for landowners and hunters to take a stand on these issues. It's like putting the goat to gardeners in the game management delegation. The second part was that we would strengthen regional and local influence in 2018. Of that announcement, the government has done nothing. This decision has also been completely ignored by the government, despite the fact that Parliament took it just over three years ago. Madam President, I would like The Minister says there's a lot of wolf abroad. Yeah, but that's where you hunt wolf. They do not have county boards that travel around and protect wolves in these areas. You hunt wolves to keep them away, but we don't in Sweden.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-226	Madam President, I would like There are many things I would like to say to my final speakers, but I will add that my speeches and those of my colleagues focus on people's security. That must nevertheless form the basis of the debate. Yes, we made a decision in the Riksdag that the wolf tribe's reference value for favourable conservation status should be a 170 – 270 individuals to achieve the least viable population. However, the Moderates believe that the 2013 parliamentary decision needs to be re-evaluated when the situation looks like it does. In the current circumstances, with a more densed wolf population in the country, the reference value shall be at the bottom of the range, 170 individuals. I think that emphasis should be placed on the fact that Annex 1 of the Habitats Directive states that research should be promoted and that great importance should be attached to economic, social and cultural needs. The latter has been completely missed by the government and Minister Bolund. Minister Bolund also does not answer my question about how the government should handle people's security when fences are not enough. There is a need for increased knowledge of how to handle the wolf. What should preschool staff use when a wolf strokes near preschool? Should you use a horn or something? Minister Bolund needs to answer these questions, because people's concerns and insecurity must be taken seriously and given priority in these matters. I look forward to more debates with Minister Bolund where I hope to get answers to these questions.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-232	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his efforts to respond.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-234	You do not only have this decision to enforce. In 2015, a notice was issued setting up an independent wildlife agency. What became of it? It's still in the investigation pile. In May 2020, a parliamentary majority announced that the government would implement the predatory policy decided in 2013. In December 2020, Parliament decided on new rules for protection hunting. There is much the minister's government has to live up to, but betrayal after betrayal it has become. Of course, democratic decisions should be followed if the word democracy is to have the right ring. But I suspect that none of this will become a reality until after 2022 when a new government base with a purer government takes over the helm. So to the complete assault to scrap the original general mission. The constitutional changes have no majority in parliament but are the work of the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party in government. Despite the fact that it is the hunter's money, it is decided to take over more and more of the hunting and game conservation mission. It's provocative for the Hunting Corps to see the mission disappear into a state authority. I will shortly be addressing this in my own interpellation on the subject.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-237	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants for the discussion. The commitment shown by Members on this matter is valuable. The government shares this commitment, even if it may not sound like it. We are very committed to allowing predators and other wild animals to coexist with people throughout our country. That is also why we have spent a lot of resources on it and have also changed the regulatory framework for, for example, damage prevention. The goal must be that there will never be any attacks. Therefore, we will work preventively to prevent wolf attacks on domestic animals and people feel insecure. That is also why we have increased the appropriations compared to what applied during the Moderates' time in government, so now you can get 100% compensation. It is also possible to hunt for protection; it is worth remembering. If there are wolves that are perceived as dangerous or attack, those wolves can be removed. In the end, it is science that will guide us. That is also what Sweden has signed up to in the EU legislation that governs this. It is worth reminding Members and the public that EU directives are directly binding on countries and go beyond Swedish legislation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now working on a new management plan to be presented during the year, so we will gain new knowledge. It will look at the policy objectives, the basic principles of management, the management measures planned to achieve the objectives and the follow-up to them. It will also present the development and status of the wolf tribe, the importance of the wolf for people, the organisation of the administration, the legal framework and the research carried out on the species that has been up here today. So we will have to look forward to more knowledge of the matter.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-243	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative in order for trading companies with passive partners to be eligible for support and not to fall between the seats. The government is working intensively to deal with the consequences of the ongoing pandemic and has presented several support measures to mitigate the economic impact on businesses and entrepreneurs. Examples of the support measures developed by the government during the pandemic are conversion aid, turnover aid to individual traders, turnover aid to commercial companies, short-term lay-off, credit guarantees, such as Fretagakten, relief in the unemployment fund for entrepreneurs and temporary reduction in employers' contributions and social security contributions. The turnover support for partnerships with at least one natural person as a partner is a financial support for partnerships whose net turnover has decreased to a greater extent as a result of the ongoing pandemic. The support for the period March 2020 to February 2021 has been applied for from 29 March 2021. The aid is granted to partnerships with at least one natural person as a shareholder if the conditions for aid are met. The government has endeavoured to achieve an equivalence between related aid. The conditions for being able to take part in the turnover support must be equal whether you are a partner in a partnership or if you are an individual trader. It is also important that subsidies do not encourage cheating while being very easy to seek and manage for the authorities. Madam President, I would like At the moment, we are in a third wave of spread of infection, while the situation is serious on the labour market and for businesses. The Government has therefore proposed the extension of several aid measures, including turnover support to partnerships with at least one natural person as a partner, in June, to further strengthen, among other things, the ability of trading companies to overcome the consequences of the pandemic. Finally, I and the government are closely following the economic impact on businesses and are constantly considering the need for the necessary measures for business.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-248	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. I would like to start by drawing the attention of those who follow the debate to the fact that a number of subsidies listed by the Minister for Economic Affairs have come about, inter alia, because the Moderates have been active and because there has been pressure from the Riksdag which has then requested the Government to implement them. Otherwise, we wouldn't have had some of them. It took time for the government to decide what support they wanted and how and whether they should be put in place at all. For example, aid to companies operating as an individual firm only came last autumn. I have asked for this debate because there is a problem with one of the subsidies. The Government referred to the fact that the Government has endeavoured to achieve an equivalence between related aid. The conditions for being able to take part in the turnover support must be equal whether you are a partner in a partnership or if you are an individual trader. When it comes to the consideration of trading companies, there are problems. The silent owners are not included in the company more than with their names. Otherwise there is no participation, but it is only one owner and one who gets his livelihood from the industry. The support would be very easy to search and for authorities to handle. But it has not been at all. The aid shall also be extended until June. But if you can't apply, it doesn't matter. Madam President, I would like One should have a large turnover rate, 200 000 SEK, to be eligible for the support. Those who have now sought have done so because they think it will be all right. They have even contacted the departments, called around and been told that it will be possible to solve itself if they reach that amount. But they got it. It is in this way that the county administrative board, which has been commissioned by the government to pay out the company subsidies, requires the companies to take up all their owners in what is to be assessed. If there are three owners in a trading company, one of which is active and two are passive, then all three are counted. It may be the way that a person in the trading company, the active, works with and lives off this, for example in the tourism industry that we see have major problems – thanks to the restrictions. The other two can work as police or IT technicians and have nothing to do with the company's value. It's not about cheating, it's about how trading companies are constructed. I want to know on what grounds it has been decided that it should be designed in this way and why the county administrative board should have the task. If we look at what happened to the Swedish Agency for Growth, we can see that they did not have the right mission from the beginning. It should have been at the IRS. I know the government discussed where to put it, and it ended up at the Swedish Agency for Growth. For me, it is also a mischmasch when you give the assignment to the county administrative board despite the fact that the Tax Agency is on the tasks that make the entrepreneur, with a slight push of a button, end up on a list where it says that person A is active and earns the money while the other two are at zero, because they have their own company elsewhere or are employed in a private company, in the public or otherwise. When the government designs the aid in this way, it pulls away the carpet for these companies. It will be impossible for them to search. I have a few questions for the government. Was it supposed to be like this? Is this the proposal that we wanted to put forward, or do we see a problem in what has happened? And why did they choose the County Administrative Board as the executioner? Why was the aid constructed without understanding and knowing how these partnerships operate? It'll be a consequence. It's not about being fair to individual companies. In reality, companies operate differently and have different forms. There is one company that has been in existence for 22 years and cannot now be supported.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-260	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson claims that the support we have issued during the pandemic has been added because of the Moderates. You could say that. When you're in opposition, you can say just about anything. What matters is what you do when you are in a government position, Madam President. Before the pandemic crisis, we had a very deep financial crisis. Then the Moderates led the government. How many support for the companies, employees or entrepreneurs was there then, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson? There was almost zero in direct aid. There were some credit guarantees. But these are the facts. Of course it is that way – and it has been good – that during this pandemic, especially initially last year, we have worked very much together. That's how I think it should work. When the country, the population, businesses and employees find themselves in such a deep crisis as last March, it is important to put the party sympathies aside and instead do their best to help each other and listen to each other. That's exactly what we did. That's very good. I sincerely hope that we can continue to do so in the future. Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and several Moderates have made it felt that there is no support and that the companies fail because we do not support them. I can really understand the frustration of companies, especially in those sectors which have had a very difficult time running their activities since March last year, both because of the pandemic and because of some measures and restrictions that have been put in place to curb the infection and save human lives. Madam President, I would like If you look at the facts, you can nevertheless see that since March last year almost SEK 100 billion from taxpayers has been spent in various types of support to companies and entrepreneurs, because we want to help each other. We want to make sure that we can overwinter in this situation. The result so far – I really want to underline so far, because we are still in the pandemic – is that we have been able to help many of our companies overwinter in many respects. This is due, among other things, to many of the innovative efforts that companies themselves have made to try to carry out their activities in a safe manner. But it is also, of course, due to the huge subsidies that taxpayers have contributed. Why am I saying this? Well, I see that in bankruptcy statistics, Madam President. It was lower in 2020 than in 2019, which was a normal year. The first three quarters of 2021 were also lower than the first quarter of 2020. But as I said, we are not through this. We will have to continue monitoring developments and be prepared to make changes and extensions if necessary. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asks why we have done this particular balance. It should be said that it is not easy, in the middle of the leap, to find the balance between helping companies and ensuring that the regulations are so simple that they can be applied as quickly as possible and yet have boundaries that prevent it from being cheated or so that organised crime cannot benefit from many of the subsidies. Of course there are boundaries. And unfortunately it always varies depending on which side of the border you end up on.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. It is gratifying to hear that the Government says it wants to cooperate on this because we are in a pandemic. It is very important, and we have a common task for the country and its continuation. That is why I was a little distressed when the written answer I received says nothing about us working together on the support. It only happens when I mentioned that other parties, including my party the Moderates, have been involved in getting support on the ground when the government has not made any proposals. It would have been humble of the Government if he had raised this part to include other parties instead of excluding them. Let me return to what my question was about and not to the financial crisis, since there were other conditions. The government would like to claim that they are the same during the pandemic. What is happening here and now, and it is during the pandemic that business support is needed. It is not only I who have seen the problem of the limit of 200 000 SEK in the turnover aid for commercial companies. Entrepreneurs have contacted the Swedish Companies Registration Office and been informed that there are problems here. The companies now want to seek support as an individual firm because the government has constructed an aid that is a dead end. They can't look for it. It does not matter if the aid is extended until June, because if you cannot apply for it now, you cannot apply for it later. The Government says here that this is not easy and that the decision has been made in the middle of a leap. I fully understand that, and I think that has the whole of Sweden. But there will be light signals-- hello, hello, hello – about this not working. The Swedish Companies Registration Office answers the companies that there has been something strange about the whole thing and that they have got a queue for those who want to apply to become an individual firm. At the same time, the Swedish Tax Agency says that a thought has been made within the government. This is not how it should work. If you follow what the government says it wants to do, it will be difficult for the county administrative board. If the companies are to have 200 000 in turnover, you have to take it by four. Then they'll also get the money times four, if they're four in a company. I have tried to tell you that a trading company does not function in this way as the construction looks. One can imagine an IT company set up by four people where one is active and the other three have other jobs to get started with the company and run it. So one of them has his livelihood from it. It would be very easy for the IRS to look at this. It says 0 kroner on the three passive. So they shouldn't be included. It is the active person who should have the support. That is the one who needs this and now in order not to have to put himself in line at the disposal of the labour market, at the risk of others becoming employees losing their job. There are also a lot of companies that are dependent on each other. If there is one person smaller in the gender and we have companies that work well, it would be good luck for the country once we get over the edge of the pandemic. Does the Government and his associates at the Ministry of Enterprise listen to the signals that are coming? It's one thing that something like that happens, but it's another thing to say, we hear and see and understand that something has happened that shouldn't have happened. And we're willing to go back and rewrite the proposal. The County Administrative Board could be given an extended assignment so that they can collaborate with the Swedish Tax Agency. Don't tell me it's hard! It's not. It's about wanting. You can do a lot if you want to. Again, Minister: Is there a will to change and screw in the system?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-278	Madam President, I would like Since this is still a formal debate in the Swedish Parliament, I just want to correct one task so that it does not go wrong. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has now said on several occasions that the limit is 200 000 SEK for both sales support and sales support to trading companies with at least one physical owner. But, Madam President, the limit is 180 000 for these from November 2020 to February 2021. Before that, the limit was 200 000, just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says, but we lowered it precisely because of the discussion that was going on in not least the sphere of culture where very many are at a lower level. Let me get back to the interpellation. I tried to be clear, Madam President, but now I am being criticised for not writing everything in the answer. After all, however, it is the spoken word that applies, even in interpellation debates. My picture is that everyone tried to help each other when we initially entered this very deep and broad crisis last March. The government and the parliamentary committees worked well together. But for everyone who has followed the debate in autumn, winter and spring, it is clear that the Moderates have tried to create a certain picture to win party political points. They keep claiming that all these subsidies have been added because of the Moderates. For this reason, I raised this point. When the Moderates ruled during a deep crisis, that is, the financial crisis, there was no such support. It is easy, Madam President, to say in opposition that you do everything in the world and that all the good comes from you and all the bad comes from the government. The truth is, and you can be humble in saying, that, when we entered this crisis, we had, for a very short time and at great speed, to develop a large number of these aids to help businesses and entrepreneurs overcome the crisis. We did this to save healthy Swedish companies but also to save Swedish jobs. It's been very effective, so far. Then we don't know what the future will be. We all hope that the activities and the economy will get started now with the aid of vaccination, but unfortunately we are not quite there yet. To date, as I have said before, direct support of nearly 100 billion has been released under very tough circumstances. It's just like it should be during really deep crises. We'll help each other. With regard to the specific issues of turnover aid and turnover aid for partnerships with at least one physical partner, the limit must be set somewhere. That's what I was trying to say before. There is also another discussion about entrepreneurs who have started their business during the pandemic and that they do not have a comparative month. There too, there will be discussion of borders. Throughout the pandemic, we have tried to have a close dialogue with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, industry organisations and trade unions to try to turn on and improve the systems so that they meet correctly but are not open to rogue or organised crime. I'll tell you the truth, it's a balancing act. Every time you make a change or impose checks like those that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson talks about, there will be a delay. After all, more than a hundred thousand companies have applied for aid.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-285	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers! Now the Government has spent time telling us about the financial crisis instead of the pandemic. It would have been better to hear about the situation of the companies than that he distorted my words that the Moderates have been involved and pushed for support that the government was not willing to provide. Madam President, I would like In the final lines of the Government's written reply, it says as follows: It is for one of these reasons that I am standing here today. There are certainly many more examples in other areas. But when you set up support and see that it clearly does not have the effect that you intended, are you willing to screw the system or are you satisfied with just having a paper with a list of support? On that basis, someone can say that this support cannot be sought by this group. All of a sudden, you don't know that partnerships, often smaller, with passive owners and an active owner – that's how you start these companies – are assessed as lumps. People who do not get their income from this end up in the situation that they should be counted in order for the company to receive support. The result will be as if you said: But stop! You can't have it. The County Administrative Board cannot control this, and they cannot judge the passive shareholders. My question remains: is the government willing to go home and screw the system so that it is possible to get this support? We're talking about important things. These people are active. A trading company with these conditions works like this. That's how it works in real life. Will the Government and the Ministry of Enterprise give an assignment to the Swedish Tax Agency and the County Administrative Board? I know the department has discussed the issue, but it has come to the conclusion that it is difficult.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-290	Madam President, I would like I can assure the honourable Member that this has dominated both my work and that of the government and the department since March last year when we entered the crisis. We have tried to find the necessary measures to overwinter during this miserable pandemic. We will continue to do so. Although, of course, we feel great hope now that vaccination is underway and a large proportion of our pensioners are vaccinated, we cannot blow the danger over anyway, because there can be a backlash. Then, as I said in my interpellation response, we must continue to follow the matter more closely and be prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that we can help out in the riot as well, as we all hope it is. With regard to the question of aid, I would just like to point out to Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson that both commercial companies and individual traders and public limited companies can not only apply for one of these aids. You can apply for a number of these subsidies, and many of them do. That is why nearly 100 billion has been made in payments since March last year of various types of support to our companies. So far, what is gratifying is that aid seems to have been effective, combined of course with the great effort that many of the entrepreneurs have made themselves to try to find solutions. As I said, we will continue to follow this. If you need to screw things up to make sure that these subsidies have the effect we want, it is clear that I am prepared to do so.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-294	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me whether, in connection with the Equal Opportunities Commission's report, I intend to introduce some form of gift tax, inheritance tax or property tax and whether I intend to increase capital taxes or have any ambition to phase out the deduction. The guiding principle for tax policy is that taxpayers should have a high level of confidence in the tax system and that taxes should be levied in a legally secure manner. It is important to maintain stable and predictable rules. It is also desirable that the rules be based on broad political agreements. The reason is that changes in tax rules can have a significant impact both on individuals' individual economic conditions and financial position as well as on total demand in the economy. On 6 August last year, the Equality Commission submitted its report to the Government. As I replied earlier to Kjell Jansson, the report has been referred, and the deadline was 12 April. The referral is now being prepared in the Government Office. However, the report did not contain any legislative proposals in the field of taxation.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-296	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Sweden has the highest tax burden in the world. It's nothing new. Everybody knows that. The central government's total tax revenue is EUR 2,100 billion annually. Many of our citizens pay up to 70% of their income in taxes – 30% in municipal taxes, 22% in state taxes above the cut-off point, as well as VAT and excise duties. The state is the winner at all times of successful and enterprising people. Every misused tax crown is a theft from the people, said Social Democratic engineer Gustav Möller once in the world. What legitimacy does the state have to levy such high taxes? The answer is quite simple. It is socialism and an over-reliance that the state should manage most things in society that can be made more efficient and better in the private sector. The aim is to redistribute money according to socialist ideology, to parts arbitrarily. Taxes should be reduced to a greater extent. Then more capital will be put on the market. It creates higher tax revenues for the state. It is also wealth-building for individuals and will drive new jobs. The property tax is a contentious tax which was largely abolished under the Reinfeldt Government. At that time it was 1.2 per cent of the rateable value. It is extremely harmful both to individuals and to the overall economy. Moreover, it is confiscatory, since it is paid with already estimated money, which means that it greatly reduces people's wealth. Several government investigations, including Klas Eklund's investigation for ESO, suggest that the property tax be reintroduced. The gender equality inquiry proposes the reintroduction of property tax, property tax, inheritance tax and gift tax. These are purely communist proposals. But also the three largest districts of the Social Democrats in the country, Stockholm, led by Anders Ygeman, Gothenburg and Skåne, have decided that the property tax will be reintroduced. Of course, the Left Party and the Green Party join in the chorus about the reinstated property tax, as they in all situations want to strengthen the state and reduce individual people. My question to the Minister for Finance is: will the Minister of Finance reintroduce the confiscated property tax? If that is the case, it will hit the Stockholm region very hard. Ordinary honest people such as construction workers, nurses, teachers, police, firefighters and entrepreneurs will pay 30 000, 40 000, 50 000, 60 000 or 70 000 annually for their right-of-occupancy or villa. Madam President, I would like Will Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats drive people from house and home? The Minister of Finance owes the answer. It would be a hit for the Stockholm region, where we generally have the highest values in the country of our homes. People in the Stockholm region who live in residences and small houses will be ruthlessly taxed. Madam President, I would like Will Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats drive people from house and home?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-305	Madam President, I would like Since Kjell Jansson seems to follow the internal social democratic debate very closely, I assume that Kjell Jansson has also heard the statements that both the Prime Minister, that is, the party chairman, and I, who is an economic-political spokesperson, have made regarding property tax. I am therefore a little surprised that Kjell Jansson says that I am guilty of the answer. Kjell Jansson obviously follows the Social Democratic internal discussion. Then he probably also knows what I have written on my Facebook page and what I have said. I do not quite understand why the question is being asked. I also answered a question about this here in Parliament during Question Time last week. I have answered that question on a number of occasions. I'm clear. We have no plans to reintroduce a property tax. However, there are a great many countries that have property tax. The United States has fairly high property taxes. Kjell Jansson says that it is socialism with property tax. Then I wonder: Does socialism in the United States advise? I'd be grateful for answers-- yes or no?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-307	Madam President, I would like I can inform the Minister of Finance that so far there is no socialism in the United States. This is probably not going to happen either, for it is basically forbidden in the Constitution of the United States. Of course you have property tax, but you have much lower other taxes, which can be taken into account in this context. Madam President, I would like The question is whether it is the party general meeting of the Social Democrats that decides or whether it is Magdalena Andersson who does so when it comes to property tax. For what reason should we be able to trust the Minister of Finance's move that there will be no property tax? In the 2014 election campaign, Magdalena Andersson promised not to increase fuel taxes. We know how it went. There have been increases in principle every year in the budget. In the same election movement, Stefan Löfven promised that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. We know how it went. We are in fourth place from the bottom of the EU with our high unemployment. The Social Democrats cannot be trusted. It's a game of play, but it doesn't match reality. I would also like to touch briefly on capital taxes, which today have eight different levels. You can think about whether it's wise. It's very confusing for a lot of people. It also drains money from investments. The IFO Institute has carried out an investigation into this. They propose to reduce the capital tax to 20% – today it is on average 30. This would lead to 35 000 new jobs, 3 % higher GDP and 6 % higher private investment in the economy and increase tax revenues of 8 1⁄2 billion annually. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance is still guilty of the answer. Is it the Minister of Finance who decides, or is it the party assembly of the Social Democrats that decides which tax policy should apply? If the accident occurs after the elections, you Social Democrats will be dependent on the Left Party and the Green Party. They are even more inclined to introduce property tax than your districts in Skåne, Gothenburg and Stockholm. Can the Minister of Finance stand here and promise that property tax will not be reintroduced?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-313	I would like to remind you that, according to the form of government, interpellations and questions may be addressed to ministers in matters relating to the performance of their duties.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that clarification. I have repeatedly been asked about the internal processes of the Social Democrats both in interpellation debates and in Question Time. Here I can point out that I am representing the government at the moment. But I am also on the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats. There, of course, I represent the decisions taken at the Party Congresses of the Social Democrats. No proposals have been voted on to reintroduce property tax at any of the congresses that we have had. It is no secret that there are parts of the Social Democrats who want such a tax. It has been proposed at party congresses and has been voted down every time. On the other hand, the Moderates have often campaigned that we should reintroduce property tax and have all been completely wrong. I even remember a sign sitting at home on my street in Nacka saying: Vote no to the new property tax of the Social Democrats – even though we did not propose such a property tax at all. Is it a good way to campaign, Kjell Jansson? Is that honest? It is the same Kjell Jansson who says in the speaker's chair: Property tax is socialism. But then he says: It is not socialism in the United States, because it says that it should not be socialism. This is the Parliament's pulpit. Shouldn't you be a little careful about how to express yourself in the Swedish Parliament's pulpit, Kjell Jansson?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-319	Madam President, I would like I said it was socialism to introduce all these taxes: wealth tax, property tax and inheritance and gift tax. That's it. I have not yet received a clear answer. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to promise not to reintroduce property tax? Will the capital tax be increased? Will the government restore wealth tax? Will the government reintroduce the inheritance and gift tax? It is in accordance with the proposals drawn up by the Gender Equality Study. Will Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats drive people from house and home? Today I read Anders Lindberg's leader in Aftonbladet. There he writes: a real estate tax may be politically impossible at the moment, but the battle for a fairer taxation of real estate is far from over. Anders Lindberg is a rather heavy Social Democratic writer in the press. I can assure you in this House that we Moderates are prepared to take the fight indefinitely to put an end to this confiscatory treasure. I would like to state quite clearly and forcefully that we Moderates will never be involved in supporting the reintroduction of this confiscated property tax.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-323	Madam President, I would like It does not seem to matter how many times I answer Kjell Jansson's question, because he obviously does not want to listen and continues to say that I am guilty of the answer. If he does not want to listen to my answer: What is the point of setting interpellations, Kjell Jansson?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-324	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me whether I have carried out an overall impact assessment of the impact of the government's tax increases in the context of the green tax shift and have had on businesses and employment. The green transition can, in the long term, strengthen the competitiveness and innovation capacity of Swedish companies. In order to speed up work and correct market failures, pricing of emissions can play an important role, including through environmental taxes and emission allowances. The green tax shift is not only about raising environmental taxes, but also about reducing other taxes to a corresponding extent for jobs and entrepreneurship. To date, reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship have been decided or announced by tax reductions for residents of certain municipalities which are fully covered by assisted areas A or B, increased reductions in employers' contributions for research and development workers, extended time limits for expert tax and part of the tax reduction for earned income. In the field of tax exchange, environmental tax increases and reductions in taxes on jobs and businesses correspond to one another during the term of office. For all tax changes included in the tax exchange, impact assessments are also produced. These analyses assess the impact on businesses and employment, among other things.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-327	Madam President, I would like The January Agreement provides for a green tax exchange. It sounds great, and the thought is good. I can sign every day of the week that a green transition can strengthen Sweden's companies' competitiveness and innovation capacity. But so far it is incredibly difficult to see how the so-called green taxes have led in that direction. Many of the taxes implemented have or come at a very high price for both households and businesses. This is at the same time as the environmental benefits of several of the taxes are expected to be extremely limited or almost non-existent. Madam President, I would like The plastic bag tax is a rather telling example. The last time we stood here debating the tax imposed, the Minister of Finance was clearly satisfied with the outcome. I find it difficult to see why the Minister for Finance was so pleased. Firstly, the planned tax revenue has not been at all what the Minister of Finance had in mind. Secondly, imports of fossil-based waste bags from China have increased dramatically. The Ministry of Finance notes that the plastic bag tax has had a major effect. It has, but perhaps not quite the one we wanted. We see that while the sale of plastic carrier bags has been more than halved, the sale of the ugly waste bags has increased by 70% on Coop, for example. It is not an effect that I think the Minister for Finance can be particularly proud of. Should the Minister of Finance be passing Tranås, I think the Minister of Finance should stop at Tranås. Because here the effect has been that their waste bags have become a bag to throw diapers in. It's not something they at their biogas plant in Tranås are fond of. Madam President, I would like We now have a total amount of space this year after the introduction of the plastic bag tax, a result that reads: significant location tax revenue than expected, a very large increase in imports of so-called fulplastics from China and gravel in the machinery at Tranås biogas plant. Add to this that our Swedish companies that have researched, invested and developed plastic carrier bags that have a low environmental impact and can be recycled almost 100% are now being outcompeted by ugly waste bags from companies in third countries, all because of the current government's so-called green tax exchange. Perhaps for natural reasons we have not been told about any environmental impact assessments. However, the Minister for Finance claims in his reply that the government makes assessments of the impact on businesses and employment, among other things. I haven't seen such an assessment. The Minister of Finance could perhaps be so kind as to explain here and now how the jobs have become more, how the competitiveness of our conversion-prone companies has benefited and how Trioplast in Smålandsstener and other companies in the recycling industry whose production units are located in small towns in the country has benefited from a tiny tax reduction when their investments in environmental technology are overturned.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-337	Madam President, I would like The aim of the green tax shift is to steer away from environmentally harmful activities or consumption. Then the increased tax revenue is used to reduce other taxes. We have, among other things, reduced employers' contributions for people working with research and development and extended the time limits for expert tax but also introduced a special tax reduction for people living in sparsely populated areas. As far as the plastic bag tax is concerned, the aim is to reduce the presence of plastic in nature. This taxation has obviously been very successful because the sale of plastic carrier bags at risk of falling into nature has been drastically reduced. That is the purpose of the green tax exchange. This, on the other hand, means that the revenue is not as large as it was, and that means that some tax cuts that we have implemented do not have the funding that was intended. But I find it hard to understand that the Moderates, who tend to advocate reductions in the overall level of taxation, would find it so bad. The question then is: Is Helena Bouveng concerned about that part of the green tax exchange? If so, it would be an interesting input from the Moderates and a little in a different line from what I normally hear from Helena Bouveng. It is also important to say that the purpose of the tax on the plastic carrier bag is not to get plastic bags and therefore microplastics in nature that are not biodegradable there. That is one of the reasons why this treasure is important.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-342	Madam President, I would like I can guarantee the Minister of Finance that the Moderates always stand up for as low tax levels as possible – but not at the cost of now getting ugly plastic bags instead of good plastic bags, and also at the expense of our Swedish companies that have developed such good plastic bags. Entrepreneurs released a report this year called Gold and Green Taxes – a review of environmental taxes from the perspective of small businesses. It is a report that I can recommend to the Minister for Finance to read and consider. There's a lot to learn and understand. Entrepreneurs present their views on the effects of the so-called green tax proposals. Here are some excerpts from the report. Plastic bag tax: It is estimated that this tax does not lead to environmental and climate improvements on the total, but only to reduced demand for our plastic carrier bags. Aviation tax: Its climate benefits are questionable, as the tax is distance-based and does not provide incentives for a switch from fossil to renewable fuel while at the same time hampering Swedish industry's accessibility and competitiveness. When it comes to reduced climate impact and ultimately a fossil-free flight, one needs to focus on reduced emissions, not on travel itself. Electronic tax: This tax has led to a considerable administrative burden on smaller companies, while at the same time leading to distortions of competition in favour of foreign sellers of the products. Tax rates on petrol and diesel: High prices of petrol and diesel reduce competitiveness and the ability to operate throughout the country, especially in rural and sparsely populated areas. Tax on waste incineration: It is difficult to see how the waste incineration tax fulfils environmental and climate policy objectives, but it appears to be a mainly fiscally justified tax. The chemical tax on clothing and footwear: Business owners consider that the tax lacks justification and precision to achieve its stated purpose. Since the tax is intended to be environmentally responsible, it is illogical that entrepreneurs will always pay at least 5% tax, whether or not the products contain unwanted chemicals – it is much like, if the Minister of Finance remembers, that Arla would pay 5% alcohol tax on milk. It also says that the tax is estimated to lead to 700 fewer employees in the industry and to accelerate the closure of about 100 companies. Tax on disposables: With a 25 per cent reduction in demand for taxed articles, this leads to negative consequences for companies that put products on the market as well as for cafés, food courses, kiosks and others. Higher costs and lower profitability for them, in turn, lead to negative effects on employment, job losses and reduced tax revenues. It directly affects already affected industries and impairs the ability of many to get their first job. I will stay there, Madam President. What is the impact assessment and assessment made by the Minister of Finance on the basis of the environmental taxes reviewed by the Entrepreneurs? Do these lead to gold and green treasures?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-353	Madam President, I would like When you look at the effects of the policy, you obviously need to look at the whole of it. Every year in the budget, the government makes an assessment of how politics beats. In the last budget, growth was estimated to be higher, unemployment to be lower and employment to be higher with government policies. The increase represented approximately 75,000 jobs. I hear here that Helena Bouveng is against a great many of the environmental measures taken by the government. But I don't see so many suggestions from the Moderates; you're just very opposed. I've seen what the Moderates have been against. It wants to phase out the government's entire climate action, phase out the support for energy efficiency and renovation of multi-dwelling buildings, close municipal energy and climate advice, stop the government's strengthening of urban environment agreements, stop government improvements in bicycle commuting, reject environmental compensation for rail freight transport and put a stop to na t t train to Europe. It is against the strengthened environmental management bonus – malus, it says no to environmental improvement measures in agriculture and the investments in organic farming and it rejects the investment in near-natural green jobs. All in all, we want to cut 2.8 billion in environmental spending this year and 3.4 billion next year, and we want to significantly reduce the tax that all experts think is by far the most effective environmental management, namely the CO2 tax, by 2 SEK. This is what the Moderates' environmental and climate policy looks like. How does Helena Bouveng expect us to ensure a good environment and continued survival on our planet for our children and grandchildren? It is not this policy that will lead to it – a powerful dismantling of many of the environmental measures that the government has taken in recent years without a response to what it wants instead. I understand that we can be critical of the measures we are taking. This is often the case in politics; that is the purpose of it. But one must have an alternative, Helena Bouveng, and that is lacking in Moderate politics.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-359	Madam President, I would like I can only say that both the Swedish people and the Entrepreneurs seem to have much higher confidence in the Moderates' climate policy, where one looks at a whole and not at unplanned and unenforceable climate action. Madam President, I would like The Entrepreneurs' report clearly shows that entrepreneurs both want and can be part of a green transition. It should be a green transition that is real, not a placard policy that has a limited effect and sometimes also a stifling effect on the competitiveness of companies. Small businesses play a key role in terms of both climate and employment. The fact that measures and future actions are anchored in the reality of small businesses is a must. They say that it should be easy to do the right thing and contribute to reduced environmental impact. Increased costs and reduced competitiveness for Swedish small businesses therefore risk hindering and delaying the desired green transition. Last week I received a reply from the Minister of Finance, where she seemed quite pleased that Sweden was allowed to sit at the children's table when the US and Joe Biden invited to the climate summit. Obviously, Sweden is high in tables that are not so flattering. We're talking unemployment, growth, shootings and now the climate. Is it not high time for the government to release placard politics and switch to a climate policy that allows Sweden to return to the adult table and our entrepreneurs to contribute with innovation and research while promoting jobs and growth?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-363	Madam President, I would like The silence echoed in Helena Bouveng's answer. It was as quiet and empty as the Moderates' climate and environmental policies. What we see from the Moderates is a criticism of the offensive policy implemented by the government. That, of course, is the role of the opposition, but another part of that role is to present an alternative. There the Moderates are completely empty – as empty and silent as Helena Bouveng's answer. With this government's policy, Sweden has moved forward the positions. It is in Sweden that we now see how the new green industrial revolution is taking off. It is in Sweden that the conversion is taking place here and now. This is where the major green investments in battery factories, in fossil-free steel and in the completely new and climate-smart mining industry are now taking place. Sweden is a leading country here, in a way that we had never been or will be involved in moderate environmental policy. It became clear when you heard Helena Bouveng's answer.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-367	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me why the benefit value of certain cars is increased and reduced for others as a result of the government's proposal for an adjusted calculation of car benefit. He also wonders what impact the proposal will have on people living and working in sparsely populated areas. Under the current regulatory framework, the benefit value of most cars is underestimated in relation to the actual cost of a car's ownership. The Government has therefore submitted a proposal to the Riksdag with a proposal for an adjusted calculation of car benefit. The aim of the proposal is to better reflect the cost of holding a privately owned car and to achieve neutrality between income in the form of cash pay and car benefit in accordance with the intentions of the legislation. The proposal therefore seeks to remedy the wrong assessment of car benefits, which means, among other things, that the tax system favours fossil-powered cars in relation to other goods and services. The change in the value of the benefit resulting from the proposal depends entirely on the level of undervaluation and overvaluation of the current rules at a certain price level. A relatively large increase in the benefit value of a particular car means that the underestimation at the car's price level today is relatively high. For the same reason, the reduction in the benefit value at new car prices above SEK 650 000 is due to the fact that the benefit value is overestimated at these price levels. A proposal aimed at achieving a proper valuation of car benefits should, of course, not only correct undervalued benefits but also overvalued values. However, it should be said that only about 1 per cent of the preferential cars have a new car price above SEK 650 000. With regard to the impact of the proposal on people living in rural areas, b il benefit holders are over-represented in metropolitan regions, while on average people living in rural municipalities are the least affected by the proposal. The proposal is also part of a green tax shift, which so far has allowed the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship to be reduced throughout the country and also through a targeted tax reduction for residents in certain sparsely populated areas.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-371	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson! This proposal has a counter-productive effect in relation to what you want to achieve. The tax shift, or the change in the benefit value of cars, means that the cost of an ordinary employee increases by 34 per cent, while those living at Östermalm in Stockholm, for example, get lower costs for their preferential car. It's gonna be very weird. I was listening to researchers from Lund University the other day. There you look at the effects of different types of cars and how we will achieve the climate goals that we have actually adopted here in the Swedish Parliament. Sure, the electric car is a step forward, but in a life cycle analysis, the electric car is not the alternative that will lead to the goal. Instead, try using hybrid cars. Why? Partly because the electricity grid has not been expanded to the extent necessary to supply charging poles. That's a reason. The second is that the transfer and replacement of the car fleet will not make it to a large extent in the case of electric cars. With a hybrid car it would be a faster way to go, especially if this hybrid car was driven by a compression-ignition engine. Then you can use, for example, HVO or other similar types of fuels. This is also the case during the phase when the car is used a biofuel that reduces emissions. Instead, with this proposal, the car fleet is in danger of getting older. We currently have an exchange rate of about 17 years for the car park. This proposal will take even longer. This will slow down the development and sale of electric cars into the market – and hybrid cars, because hybrid cars have basically stopped the proposals that have been made. Only this year have there been four changes in car taxation. It makes it twitchy. You don't know what's going on from one moment to the next. The government's climate policy is characterised by the government not really knowing how to achieve the goal. That is the conclusion that can be drawn when the government makes changes like this all the time. It has no long-term vision of what it does, and there is no feeling that the government has an impact assessment: if this measure is taken, what effect does it have on the future? The government is more heartwarming in its decisions, without basing itself on science. The consultation bodies which have expressed their views on this will see the proposal in its entirety as it will not lead to a positive outcome. I honestly can't understand how the government thinks. If we now intend to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, why do we come up with proposals that have the opposite effect? We are not getting the rate of exchange for the car fleet that we need to achieve the climate targets. Instead, we are having a brake effect on the proposal that is currently under way.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-380	Madam President, I would like The purpose of the benefit tax shift is to be neutral between collecting money as a salary and having a benefit car. This has always been the starting point for the whole preferential car system. However, it has been shown that over the years there has been under-financing in the system so that the preferential taxation of cars has been 2 billion lower than it would be if you had neutrality. This means that ordinary employees who do not have a preferential car – nurses and warehouse workers all over the country – have been involved in paying for those who have a preferential car. Of course, there are some more ordinary wage earners who have a preferential car, but on average it is people with higher incomes who have it. The average income of those with a benefit car is SEK 51 000. They're not ordinary employees. They also live preferably in our big cities. Then there are ordinary workers in sparsely populated areas who also have preferential cars, but the big money, the large part of this 2 billion, has thus gone to those in our big cities who have good wages. I find this difficult to defend, especially since the purpose of the preferential car is not to subsidise high-income car purchases. So I think there are good reasons for doing this rescheduling. At the same time, of course, it is important that we ensure that the car park emits less fossil fuel, and there is a wide range of support. Among other things, there is a reduction in the benefit value if you have an environmental car. We also have bonuses – malus, with a special tax on the one hand for those who emit a lot and on the other hand a bonus for those who buy environmental cars. We also have the vehicle tax and a fuel tax. There is therefore clear environmental management in relation to the vehicle fleet in Sweden.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The van is not a luxury consumption. There are a lot of people who depend on their car at work, and so they also use it in their spare time. You have to pay for that by deducting salaries, and then the preferential taxation comes on top of it. This will mean that many will opt out of the preferential car. The rapid development in bringing rechargeable cars into the market is usually via companies as these cars then enter the second-hand market. Car Sweden is lining up a number of effects and the consequences of this tax that everyone, one can sum up, will negatively affect the exchange of the car fleet. Bil Sweden writes that it creates great uncertainty in the industry and in the customers and gives the wrong signal value. It also states that it creates great twitchiness with different implementation points and difficulties in deriving the effects and that it slows down the renewal of the vehicle fleet and slows the transition. The positive trend in CO2 emissions from new cars is broken, which makes it difficult to reach the 70% target. It also states that Sweden's relative attractiveness is decreasing because there is today a greater demand than the supply of rechargeable vehicles, and then vehicle manufacturers risk choosing other countries over Sweden, which negatively affects mobility and transport costs. If you listen to what the researchers say – and you have to do that, because that's where the knowledge of the way forward is – and try to create a picture of how the government is trying to solve the climate issue and the emissions of transport it feels a bit like the government is sitting in a boat that leaks water. There the government sits with a deciliter measurement and tries to get out of the boat. Instead, you should have a liter measure or possibly a wish. But you don't even look for the bag, but you insist on sitting with the deciliter measure and squeezing. A little bit, you can describe the government's strategies and goals to achieve the goals. What is now being introduced on 1 July is directly devastating in reaching the climate targets. We can agree that if we are to achieve the goals we have set ourselves, there must be an exchange of the vehicle fleet. However, one must not lock in to a single technology, but one must look at the entire palette and how to move forward. Electric cars are one solution, hybrids will be another, gas cars a third and hydrogen a fourth. Looking forward in the crystal ball you can also see other fuels or energy forms to drive cars. However, it does not lead anywhere to slow down the rate of exchange in Sweden and instead create a situation where the car fleet is getting older. Then we won't reach the targets. Then we will be dissipated on this issue too, as with so many other things.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-394	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the metaphor of the leaking boat and the deciliter measure. Perhaps I am not saying that government policy is a deciliter measure, but rather that we are trying to seal the hull. The problem with the policy of the Swedish Democrats is that you have a liter measure, but you pour water into the boat instead. After all, the Swedish democrats are pursuing a policy that would increase emissions. The question to Thomas Morell is: Is it reasonable for nurses, bus drivers, warehouse workers, cleaners, preschool teachers, teachers and all other staff and ordinary employees who are unable to have a preferential car to pay taxes in order for others to get a preferential car cheaply? I find it difficult to justify, especially in view of the fact that those who have a van are on average high-income earners. 51,000 kroner a month is a high income, I think. On average, you are a high wage earner, you live in a big city and you are a man. Why should people living in sparsely populated areas around Sweden pay taxes so that these people can buy their car cheaper? I think it is right that we should have environmental management in this so that you buy a more environmentally friendly car once you buy a car. But I find it more difficult to justify that ordinary taxpayers around Sweden should subsidise this.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's gonna be a little weird, this. It sounds to the Minister of Finance like it's free to have a preferential car. It's not like that. I have perspectives from both the countryside and the city, because I myself live in the countryside. Many of my friends who have preferential cars do not have a high income, but they do have a job that requires having a car in the ministry. That's the difference. There are those who live in the cities and have high incomes and a company car – yes, of course. But there is also a large group of people with regular income in the country, who also have a van that they need in their work. This is what gets so strange, because it is precisely in those price ranges where ordinary people are able to move when it comes to car costs that the effect is most dramatic, with an increase of 34 percent. The people who are well off and to whom the Minister for Finance refers will, of course, have a reduced preferential value for cars of up to 1 million in purchase prices. No one in my circle can afford to buy a car in that price range. I can tell you that right away. My friends and acquaintances stay in price ranges that lie somewhere where the effect is worst. I do not understand that logic, and I would like an explanation of that.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-403	Madam President, I would like I don't have friends with millions of cars either, but most of them drive like I do an old car worth maybe 40,000 kroner or so. Of course, it is quite correct that there are people who live in sparsely populated areas who have a preferential car. There are also people who do not have high incomes but who have preferential cars. On average, however, there are far more people living in our big cities who have a preferential car, and the average income for those who have a preferential car is SEK 51,000 a month. When you then have a subsidy of 2 billion, as it was, to make it cheaper to buy a preferential car, a larger share of that money goes to high-income people in our big cities in relation to ordinary people who live in big cities or in sparsely populated areas. Of course, it's not free to have a preferential car. The point of the benefit car has been that it should not matter if you take out salary as a car benefit or as a salary. That is the very point of the system, and it is there that over the years there has been a change that has meant a subsidy of 2 billion to have a preferential car rather than a salary. This means that all employees who are not in a position to have a preferential car, which is the majority, and on average lower incomes have been allowed to subsidise car purchases for those who have a preferential car. I find that difficult to justify myself. But the Swedish Democrats have really bloomed in recent years as a right-wing party. The fact that the Swedish Democrats want to benefit high-income people in our big cities in cooperation with Moderates and Christian Democrats do not surprise me at all.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-409	Madam President, I would like Alexander Christiansson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that the companies that have been promised support will be helped. On 25 February 2021, the extension of the conversion aid for the period August 2020 to February 2021 entered into force. Since then, a further extension has taken place for the periods March and April 2021. The extensions are an important part of the historically major crisis measures presented by the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals in order to alleviate the effects of the pandemic on jobs and businesses. As pointed out by Alexander Christiansson, the conversion aid is calculated differently from previous support periods from August 2020. The revised calculation model is due to the alignment of the aid with the EU Commission's temporary framework for Corona-related aid. I note that the changes were necessary in order to obtain state aid approval. In his question, Alexander Christiansson cites an example of companies that do not qualify for aid despite a turnover rate of 70 per cent. As he pointed out, the new model of calculation for some companies may be less favourable than the old model. This is because companies with high sales margins may be able to finance their fixed costs even in large turnover stages. That is the starting point of the reasoning of the EU acquis. I can also say that there are companies that benefit from the new rules. For example, a small company with low sales margins can still receive up to 90 % of its fixed costs in aid despite the fact that the turnover rate is only over 30 %. The Government continues its efforts to continuously analyse the need for measures and to monitor developments closely.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-415	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of the pandemic the government stood on its toes and the support worked well. They quickly arrived on site and were paid out to the affected companies, and it was well managed by the government. What has proved true for all these support measures is that the devil lives in the details, and small changes have proved to be of great importance for businesses, not least small businesses. The Swedish Democrats have put forward a couple of initiatives during the period in the Finance Committee, especially one aimed at individual entrepreneurs who were not entitled to conversion aid if they had gone to unemployment insurance during the spring. Furthermore, it was the reference month for short-term lay-off where companies that had laid off during the spring could not use lay-off during the autumn if they had changed staff. Cooperation between parties has been good, although the opposition has too often had to steer from the back seat, not least linked to the initiatives I have just mentioned, the support for events, culture, sport and care for the elderly – some recent examples. The changes in conversion aid are also an example where a detail has had disproportionate consequences. I had the parliamentary investigation service investigate how many companies were affected by the changes, and it was concluded that more than 4,000 companies were affected. These are the ones I will focus on now, not those who have benefited from the changes. In reality, it means that companies that have done everything right to survive, it wants to reduce costs, wages and so on, now get no money at all, even though they were eligible for support under the old model. It would have been okay, in principle, if the Minister had made it clear that there may be changes, which the Minister was not. During the press conference held on 25 January, Ministers Magdalena Andersson and Per Bolund promised that the conversion aid would be extended. The ministers went so far as to urge companies to take out bank loans in order to cope with liquidity until EU aid was in place. 4 000 companies that responded to the government's call then stood with debt and without support. The Minister's response to this interpellation shows that the EU regulatory framework linked to the conversion aid cannot be changed. At the same time, the Social Democrats yesterday proposed an amendment text in the committee initiative currently under discussion in the Committee on Finance. There, the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals propose that the Riksdag announce to the government that support for companies affected by the pandemic consequences should be improved. This could include, for example, extending the definition of fixed costs or the definition of the coverage premium to take into account more costs in the calculation. It becomes illogical and ambivalent, to say the least. Is it possible to change the regulatory framework or not? Whatever the paradox of this, my criticism of the actions of the ministers in this interpellation is not linked to the form of aid itself, but rather to the fact that the government has failed 4 000 companies which have relied in good faith on the promises of the government, especially as the government, before the press conference, knew about the changes in aid that would hit 4 000 companies negatively – if I have understood correctly. Nevertheless, to urge them to take bank loans does sound false. My question to the Government will therefore be whether the Minister was aware of the changes in the conversion aid linked to the coverage grant at the press conference held by the Minister and Per Bolund on 25 January.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-423	Madam President, I would like What Mr Christiansson forgets to mention about the committee report that was discussed yesterday is that it is clear that the improvements that the government is going to look at must, of course, relate to the existing EU acquis. That's the way it is. We must, of course, use our support in accordance with the rules that exist in the European Union; otherwise they will not be approved. If the aid is not approved, and yet the aid is paid out, companies risk being liable for repayment. The starting point of the EU's reasoning is that companies that may have lost a lot of turnover but still have high margins are in less need of support than companies that may not have lost as much in turnover but have lower margins. That is the starting point of the EU's reasoning. They argue that it is important not to be overcompensated – it is the EU's way of thinking – i.e. that you have lost turnover but have such high margins that you can still make a profit. That is their reasoning. They have developed the regulatory framework, and it is on that basis that we have the opportunity to pay out the large amounts of aid that exist. I can also say that there is a big difference between the way the government has acted during this crisis and the way the alliance government acted during the financial crisis. We have had a clear focus on saving Swedish jobs and Swedish companies through the crisis. Conversion aid is one of the important aid measures.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-426	Madam President, I would like I understand the logic of the EU's reasoning linked to the changes in support, and I can agree in substance that it is better support. What is at issue here is the action of the government. On 27 January, the Ministry called a number of professional organisations to a meeting to inform about the changes in the aid. The government knew at that meeting, i.e. already on 27 January, that there would be changes in the form of coverage grants as a new parameter. It was an official meeting in which the invited parties questioned the fact that the government is not planning to carry out an impact assessment of the changes in the aid in order to find out what the consequences would be for companies, especially with the promise that companies would receive extended conversion aid. Why did the government not want to analyse the consequences, is my question? Why were the changes not made during the press conference held two days before, on 25 January? Even though the government officially received the approval of the conversion aid from the Commission on 16 February, there was therefore knowledge of the changes already before, according to the sources I have spoken with from the meeting with the Ministry on 27 January. Is it an extension of aid if 4 000 firms do not receive aid after the new parameter? I don't think so. At the press conference held on 25 January, everything indicates that the government is aware of the changes. Per Bolund says that the government announces an extension of the conversion aid. He says there's a certainty that we know the money will come out. This also means that companies – listen now! – if they have acute liquid problems, can go to the bank and borrow money and be sure that money will come out later. Magdalena Andersson concludes by saying that the message is clear: Hold on and hold on! Money and salvation are on their way. Companies have written to me in panic. After discussions with their lawyers, they feel that the procedure is similar to fraudulent behaviour. I'm not a lawyer. But the definition of fraud to which the lawyers refer in this case is from Chapter 9. The criminal code, which reads as follows: are also convicted of fraud by giving incorrect or incomplete information, by altering programmes or recording or otherwise adversely affecting the outcome of an automated information processing or any other similar automated process, so that it means gain to the offender and harm to someone else. ..................................................... As I said, I am not a lawyer, but lawyers believe that this can be linked to fraudulent behaviour. And if I had acted the same way as an entrepreneur against another party, then I would have been sued and prosecuted. As has been said, I am not a lawyer, so I do not know, but it sounds a bit like the ministers' promises to companies are, to say the least, misleading. Does the Minister share the legal definition of fraud, and does the Minister see that the actions of the ministers can be perceived as bartering or misleading for those companies which, in good faith, have relied on the invitation of the ministers and taken loans with the promise of receiving aid?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-437	Madam President, I would like The government has worked extremely hard over the past year to try to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies through this crisis. We have taken measures that no other government has ever done. The aim is, of course, to save and support the jobs in Sweden but also the companies in Sweden. Of course, we have done this with the very best of intentions. On the other hand, we must also look at the possibilities we have for extending aid. The EU has, on several occasions, changed the rules on the type and form of aid granted. We must, of course, deal with this, because if we do not do so and pay out aid in some other way, companies will be liable for repayment. That is the starting point of how this government has worked.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-439	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt the intentions or ambitions of the government. Nor do I think that the ministers have deliberately tried to mislead companies. But from the point of view of companies, it is very strange that they receive a message and even promises that the government is then unable to live up to. Then they have been put in an incredibly tough situation, and that is what I am criticising here. It would have been tasteful to show empathy for the companies that have been put into this very crowded situation. In conclusion, the ministers went to a press conference on 25 January and promised an extension of the conversion aid. They called on companies to take out bank loans despite the fact that on 27 January, two days later, the member organisations wanted to analyse the effects. Perhaps the government did not want to analyse the effects because two days earlier it had promised an extension and called for bank loans. The answer to that, of course, only the ministers know. Whatever it is, my genuine ambition is that the companies affected by this should be helped with what they have been promised. The Swedish democrats have worked hard to overcome this problem. On 8 April, the Swedish Democrats put forward a committee initiative to find a solution. Unfortunately, it was voted down. However, a week later, the Moderates were able to present a committee initiative with a similar wording, and now the government parties come up with basically the same proposal. The messenger is more important than the message in Swedish politics, but for us it does not matter so much who takes credit as long as the affected companies receive the help they deserve. If the committee initiative goes through, my question to the government is: what can the government do to ensure that the companies that have been put into this situation are helped despite the Commission's decision? A promise must still mean something, I mean.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-443	Madam President, I would like The government has worked hard to make it easier for Swedish companies to get through this crisis. It has been extremely tough for very many companies, who have seen the business that has been built up over many years suddenly stand completely without customers. People have had to be dismissed. Some staff have been given short-term leave, but others have had to be laid off. It is, of course, extremely difficult to feel the risk of failing to make it through this crisis. Some have also seen their life's work go down. It is against this background that the government has worked extremely hard to get these subsidies in place. On the other hand, there is no government that can promise to implement aid that is not allowed under the EU acquis. If you do that, you really put the companies on the edge of the pot, because in that case you distribute the aid which the companies will then be obliged to repay. That would be an extremely irresponsible approach. As Socialist Minister of Finance, I will never do so, but I want the aid we pay out to be approved by the European Union so that companies can feel that security. If Alexander Christiansson is interested in what more Per Bolund said at the press conference, I suggest that Alexander Christiansson turn to Per Bolund. I think he can best answer what he was thinking.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-446	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Swedish journalists will be able to work unhindered without receiving threats from foreign embassy staff based in Stockholm. The Government and the Government Office are engaged in an ongoing dialogue with the foreign embassies in Stockholm. In this dialogue, we regularly stress that freedom of expression and the press is constitutionally protected in Sweden. We also say that journalists' work is an important part of democracy and democratic dialogue, both in Sweden and abroad. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently informed the diplomatic corps in Stockholm about the government's drive for democracy. One of the focus areas of democracy is freedom of expression and media, and the meeting with the diplomatic corps highlighted that independent media is one of the cornerstones of democracy. According to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, foreign diplomats in Sweden are required to comply with Swedish laws and regulations. This also includes an obligation to respect the fundamental rights that apply here, including freedom of expression and of the press. As I said in my answer to David Josefsson's written question, it is of course totally unacceptable for an embassy to make threatening statements against a journalist. We will continue to point out to foreign embassies in Sweden that journalists have the right to do their work freely. With regard specifically to China's ambassador, we have stressed on several occasions that we assume that the Embassy respects Swedish laws and rules. This includes respecting the fundamental rights that apply here, including freedom of expression. Anyone who considers themselves a victim of a criminal offence should report this to the police. The Government continues to closely monitor foreign diplomats' actions in Sweden and takes action when necessary.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-453	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. Last Tuesday was freedom of the press. It aims to raise awareness of the importance of freedom of the press. However, it should also remind decision-makers of the obligation to uphold and defend freedom of expression as expressed in Article 19 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. On March 28, freelance journalist Jojje Olsson wrote an article in Expressen about the Swedish clothing company H & M being subjected to extensive boycotts in China. This after H & M actively took a stand against buying and selling cotton products produced by slave workers in Xinjiang. A week later, the journalist received an email from the Chinese Embassy in Stockholm, which was reported in Expressen the following day. It was not the first time Jojje Olsson received e-mails from the Chinese Embassy, but this letter was remarkable for two reasons. The embassy stated in the email that Taiwan is not part of China – a reasoning that the Chinese ambassador partially repeated in SVT a few weeks later. China usually claims that Taiwan is part of mainland China. The email also contained a number of threatening formulations and ended with the following words: The email was not signed by any individual but only by the Chinese Embassy in Sweden, and it was sent from an email address belonging to the political section of the Chinese Embassy in Stockholm. The Journalist Association has condemned the threats, and Reporters without Borders Chairman of Sweden stated that the wording of the email should be the basis for a police report. He also called on the government to put in a new gear in the diplomatic management of China. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs now says in his reply to me that anyone who considers himself to be the victim of a criminal offence should report this to the police. But this is where the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations comes in. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, all diplomatic staff in Sweden are bound by the Vienna Convention and must therefore comply with the laws and regulations of the host country. But Sweden is also bound to comply with the Convention in that we cannot or cannot prosecute any crimes against diplomatic personnel. The police therefore do not investigate such suspicions. It will be a matter for the government to deal with. Madam President, I would like Of course, the purpose of e-mails like this is not primarily to silence the recipient. The aim is to send a signal to other journalists about how the Chinese regime views critical reporting and to get them to practice self-censorship. Therefore, this is not just a threat to an individual journalist. It is a threat to the ability to report freely and independently in Sweden about China. And when this is done through diplomatic personnel stationed here in Sweden, it is not a matter for the police and the judiciary – it is a matter for the Foreign Minister. So my question is again: what measures does the Minister intend to take to ensure that Swedish journalists can work unhindered, without receiving threats from foreign embassy staff based in Stockholm and Sweden?
i-574252b86ffeedb7-462	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long history of constitutional protection for freedom of print and expression. According to international measurements, Sweden belongs to the countries in the world that have the greatest freedom of the press. Journalists in Sweden can and should be able to work freely and independently publish articles and reports in Swedish media. Independent media is a central part of Swedish democracy. For a long time there has been free debate and opinion formation in the country. Publications in or outside the media should of course be able to be both criticized and discussed. Foreign diplomats should also be able to express their positions in Sweden. Freedom of expression also belongs, for example, to ambassadors. According to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, it is the task of a diplomat to protect the interests of the sending State and its citizens within the limits of international law. A diplomat shall also promote relations between the sending State and the receiving State. It is therefore natural for foreign diplomats to convey their views in different contexts. However, illegal pressure to stop or change publications in free and independent media is always unacceptable. As I explained in previous answers, everyone in Sweden, including foreign diplomats, is obliged to respect Swedish laws and regulations. This is explicitly stated in Article 41 of the Vienna Convention. Similarly, Swedish diplomats abroad are obliged to respect the laws of the host state in countries where they operate. In our dialogue with foreign embassies, we repeatedly stress the obligation to respect Swedish legislation, including the protection of freedom of expression. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also provides information to the foreign embassies about Swedish laws and regulations. We will continue to do so. The presence and activities of foreign embassies are important for our bilateral relations. The diplomatic exchange in Stockholm between Sweden and other countries facilitates cooperation in several areas. Through the foreign embassies, Sweden has an important channel to promote our foreign policy priorities, not least regarding media independence. We have a fundamental interest in keeping the channels of dialogue open. It is important to be able to have a dialogue with other countries even on issues where we have different views, including issues of freedom of expression. I will continue to raise the issues of the role of the media in democracy in our bilateral contacts.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-467	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Swedish freedom of expression is something we should protect and protect. Of course, freedom of expression is also about the right of diplomats to speak. But these are not expressions of opinion, but something quite different. The Chinese regime is becoming increasingly aggressive against foreign journalists reporting critically. More and more journalists have recently been forced to leave China because of their work. Perhaps most noted is John Sudworth of the BBC, who left China for Taiwan about a month ago. Assessors say that about 20 foreign journalists have been forced away from China only in the last year. What is happening in China is, of course, difficult for us here in Sweden to influence. But we can influence how China behaves here, in Sweden. The purpose of Chinese aggression is not primarily to silence the individual journalists who are being exposed. It is to make other journalists realise that it will have a price to act in a way that is not in China's interest. Madam President, I would like The Chinese influence work includes not only journalists. In its yearbook for 2021, the Swedish Security Service describes how the Chinese intelligence threat has been widened and deepened. It now also includes pressure and threats to, among others, political decision-makers and public figures. About a month ago, the media reported that two Danish politicians had been called by the Danish security police PET. PET had received classified intelligence indicating that, under the new Hong Kong security law, China would attempt to request the extradition of politicians. This is because of their involvement when a Hong Kong democracy activist dropped out. Now the secret police wanted to inform politicians that they should avoid travel to countries with extradition agreements with China or Hong Kong. Madam President, I would like We're facing a choice. Either we act against threats and pressure from regimes like the Chinese. We show with vigour and determination that we do not accept the threat to journalists under diplomatic cover and, by extension, to free speech. Or we are passively faced with the influence and blackmail of authoritarian regimes. This would mean that journalists would start self-censoring. We as politicians must avoid making moves that may be displeasing to the Chinese regime. People who dare to stand up to China in action must accept that they can no longer travel freely. This is the choice we have to make. The Minister for Foreign Affairs states in his reply to me that it is obviously unacceptable for an embassy to make threatening statements against a journalist. It is important, Madam President, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should make this statement here in Parliament's pulpit. But I, and many with me, believe that more is needed. As the Chinese Embassy's threat to journalists such as Jojje Olsson has been possible, we can see that the measures have not been sufficient so far. The embassy hasn't backed away, on the contrary. You have moved your positions forward, and you have raised your tone. So the question is: Should foreign embassies in Sweden be able to continue harassing Swedish journalists? It's the choice we have to make.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-479	Madam President, I would like Of course, embassies should not harass journalists. I have repeated this repeatedly on numerous occasions in response to questions, in journalists, in this House – I have answered 71 questions about China, and on at least eight occasions I have raised this in the committees and had seven interpellation debates on it. I repeat that again because the interpeller has obviously not listened to what I have said before. Of course, it is unacceptable for a journalist to be threatened or harassed. If the interpellier thinks otherwise, he'll think wrong. Freedom of expression and the position of media workers is an issue that the government is following closely both in Sweden and abroad. This is reflected, among other things, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' reports on the human rights situation, democracy and the rule of law. With regard to the situation in Sweden, the government, under the leadership of the Minister for Culture and Democracy, has carried out a strategic work that resulted in the action plan for the defence of the free word. The work has continued with a number of processes and missions to highlight, prevent and remedy threats to journalists, among others. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has also raised the issue at European level. Promoting freedom of expression and supporting journalists' opportunities to operate freely are also important elements in the Government's drive for democracy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Swedish foreign authorities have carried out numerous activities within the framework of the democracy initiative and its priority areas. Swedish embassies have arranged and supported projects and events aimed at strengthening journalists' position in their operating countries. Sweden has been involved in the international work on strengthening journalists' security and respect for freedom of expression and media freedom. The government also places a great deal of focus on these issues in international forums. Within the framework of the current Swedish OSCE Presidency, we focus in particular on the right to freedom of expression and media freedom. Among other things, we are organising a conference on media freedom in the framework of the Presidency on 18 and 19 May. Sweden also defends the important work of the OSCE Media Freedom Representative as well as the institution's mandate and independence. The OSCE Media Freedom Representative visited Sweden as late as 23 April. During the visit, our strong support was expressed, and challenges regarding the situation of the media and the ability to operate independently were discussed. Sweden supports a variety of efforts for freedom of the press and the security of journalists. We are the largest donor of voluntary contributions to UNESCO. This support goes to UNESCO's work in the fields of education, freedom of the press and of expression and artistic freedom. Sweden also supports other parts of UNESCO's activities. This is a clear Swedish position on freedom of the press. In international development cooperation, the government invests funds to work with democracy and strengthen freedom of the press, not least in countries in Eastern Europe. Through these measures, we are helping to counter misinformation. We also improve the possibility for people in the countries concerned to have access to free and independent journalism. Human rights issues, including freedom of expression, are regularly addressed in bilateral talks between the government and representatives of other countries, including the diplomatic corps in Stockholm. This applies, in particular, to diplomats from countries where the human rights situation is worrying. As I said, we will continue to emphasise the importance of freedom of expression in our dialogue with the diplomatic corps.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-490	Madam President, I would like I don't know if the Secretary of State really listened to what I said. I commended the Foreign Minister for her clear position. I don't think anything that's done is wrong, but as I said, I don't think it's enough. That is what this debate is about. .. Courageous and independent journalists are a necessity for our democracy to function. This is how EU Minister Hans Dahlgren wrote on social media at the beginning of the week on the occasion of Freedom of the Press Day. He concluded his speech by saying that this is unacceptable. Journalists need better protection, and they must be able to exercise their demands freely – otherwise democracy stops! ..................................................... What we have debated today is whether diplomatic staff based in Sweden should be able to threaten Swedish journalists and what action the government should take in such cases. I think we should take the EU Minister's words and say that journalists need better protection against threats in Sweden. If authoritarian regimes threaten Swedish journalists through diplomatic personnel based in Sweden, it is not only a problem in the authoritarian state. Then there is a problem here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Reporters without borders summarize it well when they note that the government must put a new gear into the diplomatic management of China. With this, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for today's debate.
i-574252b86ffeedb7-494	Madam President, I would like Thank you to David Josefsson, who addresses the important issues of journalists' opportunities to operate and that it is not acceptable to threaten journalists in Sweden! Sweden has long had a strong voice on issues of freedom of expression and media independence. We have put the issue of journalists' safety at the centre of various international bodies. We actively work to strengthen accountability for threats and other types of harassment against freedom of expression practitioners. The government will continue to emphasise the importance of freedom of expression in our bilateral contacts with other countries and in international fora. We can never accept that threats are directed at journalists because they are doing their important job. And we will continue to point out to foreign embassies in Sweden that journalists have the right to do their work freely. There is no doubt about that. The right to freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the independence of the media are the cornerstones of the government's work on human rights and will remain so.
