i-24297cb97b3f7a10-0	Mr President, I would like to In autumn 2019, the Prime Minister read the first EU declaration ever here in the Swedish Parliament. Since then, cooperation has really been tested. The world, the EU and Sweden are fighting a pandemic that spreads death, fear and unemployment. One thing is certain: major threats such as pandemics, climate crises or terrorism cannot be solved on their own by a single country. Cooperation is needed. Systematics is required. Solidarity is needed. Today, I want to immerse myself in three areas that are crucial for the European Union and for Sweden: first, the way out of the pandemic, then respect for the fundamental values of the European Union and, finally, how we in the European Union can better stand up for our common interests. Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to remind you why the European Union is crucial to us. The reason why we devote time and energy to this cooperation, a cooperation that I believe is more important than ever, is that the European Union gives strength to Sweden, a force that is considerably greater than our own. And most importantly, together we can secure peace on our continent. It has been – and it is being made – linked so strongly between us that a war between our countries is now completely unthinkable. We have the strength of cooperation in climate change and in the fight for our democratic values. We benefit from being able to act without obstacles throughout the European market. On each individual issue, Sweden is strengthened by this collaboration. EU cooperation has a great value in itself, but the EU is also important for the peace, security and development of the whole world, and Sweden can use the great opportunity for influence that our membership offers. Sweden's starting point is that we should be fully involved in EU cooperation and active in the design of all its parts in a way that protects Swedish interests. We get a lot at the same time as we contribute to the development of other countries – that is exactly how well-functioning cooperation should be done. Sweden's decided priorities for EU work are fixed: creating more jobs with good working conditions, combating the climate crisis, increasing security and maintaining a humane, legally secure and sustainable migration policy. In EU cooperation, Sweden has helped to form strong alliances. During this summer's budget negotiations, we took a clear responsibility with three other countries, which also had a great impact. Thanks to early leadership, we have been able to bring together a growing number of countries behind both a European climate law and increased climate ambitions. Together with several other countries, Sweden has also put forward proposals on how the internal market can develop. All these are successes that have been founded in strong positions that the Swedish Parliament has taken on. The EU is a Union in which not only the largest decide. An active Member State, such as Sweden, which wants to be fully involved in the core of the EU, can have an influence that surpasses its size. Regardless of what we are discussing, we are doing so knowing that the European Union is a cooperation that Sweden has everything to gain from. Mr President, I would like to The world is in the middle of a pandemic. In country after country, sickness rates are back at the same levels as last spring. People are dying. More and more people are getting sick. Many more lose their livelihood. When the Corona virus began to spread in Europe this spring, several countries acted contrary to the principles of cooperation. Countries closed borders without warning. Medical equipment was being used. We could not really rely on freedom of movement when it really came to it. Since then, however, cooperation has clearly improved. EU countries have decided on a gigantic recovery package. Common security stocks for protective equipment are being built up, one of them here in Sweden. And most importantly, together we have produced a vaccine for all the countries of the European Union, and the first could be vaccinated already during the Christmas holiday. The focus now is to reduce the spread of infection and to protect life, health and jobs. Continued vaccination can be an important part of this. After the pandemic, equally intensive cooperation will be needed to build a stronger Europe. I would like to say that this does not mean that the way forward is further joint indebtedness or that trade barriers should be built up against the outside world. But it is also not going on as if nothing had happened. Recovery must strengthen our preparedness for future crises of various kinds. And more cooperation is needed. It is needed to ensure our access to goods necessary for our preparedness, both against pandemics and in other strategic contexts. Through a well-functioning EU, Sweden's and the whole Union's crisis management can be clearly improved. We shall do this as part of strengthening our resilience here in Europe in areas that are vital to our security. However, in some areas safeguarding strategic autonomy should take place without the EU turning inwards. Our open economy serves us well. We need to strengthen competitiveness. We need to increase digitalisation and ensure that Europe has absolutely world-class universities. For this to be possible, our highest ambitions are needed in terms of business, research and education. At the same time, we need to reduce disparities within the Member States and between the countries of the European Union. There is a need for a more equal Europe and a strong Europe with a fully developed internal market, combined with good working conditions and a high standard of living. That is how we can build a strong Europe that is ready for the future. Mr President, I would like to The work to deal with the Corona crisis and to make sure that we are strengthened out of it needs to be based on the fact that at the same time we are taking a strong hold on climate change. This is an existential issue for all mankind. A change is necessary in order to safeguard our basic living conditions and the welfare of the future. The European Union has an extremely important role to play here. It's a question that can't wait. Something has to happen now, and we have to get more people on the train. The situation is serious. But I would like to say that in the work to stop climate change there are also great opportunities if we do what is necessary. As the countries of the world are now renewing their objectives and efforts as stated in the Paris Agreement, it is truly gratifying that the EU can maintain its leading position. I think it was clear when, a few weeks ago, we in the European Union submitted our new ambitious commitment to the United Nations. The implementation now remains, and Sweden will consistently work to ensure that the EU does what is necessary to significantly reduce emissions in time. Mr President, I would like to EU cooperation is based on some fundamental values. It concerns respect for human rights, freedom and democracy, equality, equality and tolerance, justice and diversity, and an independent judiciary. Each of these values is important for every person in every Member State, and compliance is crucial for Europe, for democracy and for all of us. In several countries there are worrying examples of a lack of respect for these values. There, judges are dismissed or appointed in a regime which is not independent. There, independent research is threatened by shutdown. There, the conditions of free media deteriorate, making it more difficult to review power. The EU is a Union of democracies. All countries will live up to the fundamental values that they promised to uphold when they once joined the cooperation. When our values are ignored, trust between countries is also lost. Then confidence in politics will be lost, and Europe will lose its strength. Without mutual trust, the economy is also threatened by the risk of stopping investment, the suffering of trade and the loss of jobs. Sweden has been a strong driver for many years for the disbursement of EU funds to be conditional on respect for the principles of the rule of law, and since the turn of the year there is now at last a mechanism in place that connects the EU's money to our common values for the first time. This is a historic and absolutely necessary position. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has hit Europe. At the same time, ruthless Islamist terrorists have taken the opportunity to strike at the time. It was the terrorist attack in Vienna, a deed in Nice that took three lives and before that the murder of French teacher Samuel Paty. Any such attack in one Member State is an attack on our entire open Europe. Serious crime knows no borders, but moves ruthlessly across Europe. That is why the whole of Europe also needs to fight crime everywhere, together. There's no corner to hide in. More cooperation is needed between the police, prosecutors and other authorities of the Member States in order to tackle crime. For example, by requiring passenger data from more traffic than air transport, we can better follow the journeys of criminals. Of course, we will also work to ensure that law enforcement authorities have the best possible access to information and evidence also digitally. The government is now preparing Sweden's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This shows once again that cooperation is needed to solve the major societal challenges: terrorism, crime, pandemic, migration and climate. Another example is the jobs. We will work for more jobs in all Member States. The common market we have offers great opportunities for companies, and we will invest in education, research and innovation for even better conditions. But jobs should be fair, conditions fair and workers should not be put against workers. At the same time, we shall under no circumstances jeopardise the Swedish model. In Sweden, it is the social partners who are responsible for wage formation. Mr President, I would like to Last year the United Kingdom left the European Union and since the turn of the year also the customs union and the internal market. We regret this, but it was beneficial that, at the eleventh hour, an agreement could still be reached on a new relationship. It should be as broad and as deep as possible, while further developing our bilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom. Our neighborhood is troubled. The world is worried. The EU has several tools at its disposal to address the challenges and threats, but I believe that our Union could be an even stronger player in world politics. It is crucial when the EU unites and acts together against an act of violence or imposes sanctions. That is why it is bad every time individual countries put an end to the fact that the whole Union is speaking on these issues. Sweden will be involved in building a strong Europe, a Europe that engages in international cooperation, which stands up for the European security order, for democracy, for human rights, for the rule of law. Through the EU, Sweden has a greater impact to contribute to peace and security in our neighbourhood. Our support for the freedom-fighting population in Belarus is becoming stronger together with other countries. The protests against Russia's abuse of its own citizens, aggression against Ukraine and illegal annexation of Crimea are becoming more powerful because the EU is making them jointly. In just a few hours, Joe Biden will take his oath as the 46th president of the United States. The United States of America is a central partner for the EU and for Sweden, and with the incoming administration we see great opportunities for deeper transatlantic cooperation around a rule-based world order, climate and security. That's good. China's emergence brings both opportunities and challenges. There is a need for enhanced cooperation between the EU and China in areas such as climate change and trade. One example is the investment agreement agreed between the EU and China. This cooperation must be based on the interests and values of the European Union, including human rights. Mr President, I would like to We are in the midst of a pandemic with new difficulties also for European cooperation. But I am convinced that the European Union will also pass this test. The EU needs to pass this test so that the unique project that the European Union is can be even stronger and be a cooperation that continues to defend openness and solidarity. A collaboration that makes each individual country stronger, which makes Sweden stronger. A Union that promotes de-escalation and dialogue in a world with a high tone. Sweden will continue to be involved in building this cooperation.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-36	Mr President, I would like to Europe, the world and Sweden are in a serious crisis. There are urgent problems that we have to deal with here and now, and a lot we have to deal with together. One task that cannot wait is the joint work of opening up our countries. The vaccine plays a crucial role there, but in order for it to get the desired result, we also need to have a joint vaccination certificate – not 27 different systems but one. That's why the Moderates are pushing for that to be the case. Tomorrow at the European Council, it must also be a priority for Sweden. But even in times of crisis, and this is one of those, we must be able to look to the future. Sweden cannot afford to stand aside when the playing field changes and new questions will be answered. This is particularly true of European cooperation. Major changes are underway regarding our common defence and security cooperation, climate change and migration. Sweden can play an important role in Europe's development, as previous governments have shown. This requires three things: an understanding of what can be done, an ability to prioritise and the ability to take action to get something done. If Sweden is to be able to influence the EU, a clear Swedish agenda is therefore required. We cannot control progress, but we can influence it if we can put our foot down and map out our own path. A rule of thumb also for social democratic governments should be to organise summits only when you want something to become a common European policy. The Moderates understand how important it is to build political, economic and military collaborations with like-minded ones that safeguard the values we share with others. It is about democracy, the market economy, transparency and the rule of law. This also applies to the climate, free trade and the digital single market, which is crucial for Swedish jobs and businesses. There are those who want a narrower Europe, and there are those who want Europe to be as big as it should be. It is wrong: Europe should be relevant and do the right things. Mr President, I would like to Today, I would like to present four cornerstones of a future Swedish European policy. There is so much more we can achieve if we are clearly working on a Swedish agenda. Firstly, jobs, free trade and competitiveness. If Europe is to become a leading force in the world seriously, we need to get our economy moving. Europe is built strongly by work, entrepreneurship, research and innovation, not by EU taxes and subsidies. What we need now is more trade and more internal market. In EU cooperation, it is those who dare to take the lead who have the most influence. When others are hesitant about the services sector, the digital economy, 5G and free trade, Sweden must dare to go ahead and work together with like-minded EU countries to overcome the obstacles that hamper Europe. Those who now want to see more solitude and protectionism draw completely the wrong conclusions from the current crisis. If they are allowed to set the agenda, we risk embarking on a path away from the one that has been so successful for Sweden and Europe but also for the world economy as a whole. On the contrary, European cooperation must be used more to improve our basic conditions for growth and jobs. Secondly, more environmental and climate cooperation. Sweden has a unique opportunity to become Europe's green force. We know that Europe must take the lead and that we must ensure that technological developments lead the way. Member States with the highest emissions need both clear incentives and requirements to tackle their emissions. Sweden needs to push for all countries to have a carbon tax while building on our emissions trading. The fact that not even the EU alone can counter climate change is no excuse to do less, but the EU should do more and not least show that it is possible to combine emissions reductions with economic growth. But then nuclear power is also needed, and so we need to speak with one voice in the global climate work, preferably together with the United States – which today has a new administration. Thirdly, a common foreign and security policy. The harsh truth is that the Member States of the European Union cannot defend Europe, let alone our neighbourhood. Sweden will go at the forefront to further develop the projects in the field of defence that have been adopted in recent years, not least in the defence industry. If Sweden is able to get the EU to speak with one voice in central foreign policy issues for us, it can make a real difference in the outside world, and Sweden can assert its interests with a force that we cannot do on its own. Fourthly, the rule of law. It was the values and principles of democracy, the rule of law, free movement and openness that built Europe. One of the greatest challenges of our time is that the European Union, and all its Member States, are firmly committed to these values. Countries which water down our common rule of law and the fundamental principles of the European Union must be challenged with the help of the new rule of law mechanism which is now in place. Mr President, I would like to We live in a difficult time. That is precisely why we must now seize all the new opportunities for greater freedom, growing prosperity and cleaner environment that exist in our country and in the world. A significant part of this response is available in the EU. Europe is in a position where a strong Swedish voice can be more important than perhaps ever before. The Moderates offer just that. We know what we want both in Sweden and in Europe.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-57	Mr President, I would like to 2020 was a historic year for the European Union. I'm not saying that in a positive way. Nor am I thinking of Brexit, which was completed and which was truly historic, but I am referring to something else. For 2020, the year the EU was transformed into a debt union through the agreement on the Recovery Fund. Thousands of billions are now to be borrowed, and, as it is said at the moment, this money should not be repaid for a little more than 35 years – that is, probably a while after our political careers in this House are finished. The total cost for the Swedish part is estimated at SEK 150 billion, and together with the listed regular Swedish membership fee, it is about increased costs of approximately SEK 11 billion annually. This is what tends to be a fairly acceptable room for reform in a state budget that we Members of Parliament debate intensively in this House every autumn. In addition to the money we paid last year, we will give up such a space. Mr President, I would like to This is made possible by a kind of constitutional coup. According to the Treaties, fiscal and financial policy are national competences, and the EU is not allowed to go into debt. But clear steps are now being taken to dismantle this. The Swedish Democrats will be a guarantor in Swedish politics because there will always be a voice pointing out that it is elected Swedish parliamentarians who will decide on taxation and the state finances. Mr President, I would like to There is talk of the fund from a fair point of view, that is, money should go to countries that are hit harder than others by the pandemic. However, in view of the lack of demand, the differences in Europe are not significant. The differences consist of how well countries have equipped their economies to withstand crises. For example, Italy, one of the biggest winners of the fund, has not balanced a single state budget since the Second World War. It is not surprising, then, that one is worried about not being able to borrow money in the event of a crisis. Mr President, I would like to One thing all politicians have discovered is how difficult it is to roll back implemented incentives. Lowering a tax is easier than raising it. For example, ask the Social Democrats, who are still complaining about previous governments' job tax deductions but have themselves chosen to keep them. New taxes are also easier to introduce than to remove. For example, it took decades to abolish Göran Persson's temporary military tax. Now the EU has agreed to raise loans and use them to donate money to the least responsible countries and pump more money into existing EU programmes. The European Council did not even have time to conclude the agreement before senior representatives of the European Central Bank began to say that the fund must be permanent. Mr President, I would like to This also includes the need for taxation at EU level, which is indeed part of the agreement agreed between Sweden and the other Member States. Now we hear from the government and many other parties that this is a red line that must not be crossed. This was also said, however, about the contributions to the fund. It took only a few hours after the prime ministers had gathered before the EU Council was convened, and we were told that it was hopeless for Sweden to continue protesting against the contributions. We were urged to bow down, which was also supported by the Board's majority – in addition to the Swedish Democrats. Mr President, I would like to Time is running out, and there are many important issues to be raised in the EU area. I would also like to highlight foreign policy. In the light of recent events in Russia and the ongoing tours with Turkey, I would like to point out the importance of a strong EU-wide line towards these states. It is high time to remove Turkey from the list of candidate countries and suspend all forms of aid to Turkey. These resources should instead be devoted, if necessary, to the protection of the EU's external border. When it comes to Russia, it is important to maintain sanctions and also to extend them. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we would like to see the sanctions drawn up with the inspiration of the American Magnitsky legislation.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-67	Mr President, I would like to Our community is our strength. Our European history is long and full of both conflict and war. But if something has changed that image, it is European cooperation. Instead, when we have been able to put conflicts, mistrust and walls behind us, our history has been about how we together can achieve great success. With common forces, we have made our continent rise again after two world wars, and we have created the world's largest internal market, connecting half a billion people and some 30 million companies. Together we have been able to connect companies, research and innovation and create a whole that has become even stronger. It has been about developing new technologies, developing new medicines, tackling climate change and increasing growth. If we are to cope with the enormous challenge that we are now facing with a pandemic that strikes hard at Europe's countries, people and businesses, then we must bear with us the very fact that our community is our strength. It is by continuing to trade with each other that we are now strengthening our companies and protecting our jobs. When we join forces as a force, we can move forward faster in finding new vaccines. The EU has secured Sweden's place in the queue now that vaccines are already ready to be used. My mother has been given her first shot, and she looks forward to seeing children, grandchildren, and great - grandsons again! Maybe she'll even get a hug soon. The emergence of the Corona virus is an important reflection. The closed Europe will never be the strong Europe. Higher walls between our countries only stop development, not challenges, emissions or contamination. What has built our continent stronger throughout history is trade, cooperation and openness. This has taken us forward. If we are to succeed in taking Europe forward again, through the crisis, we must take new steps towards more free trade, transparency and dialogue and make our internal market even stronger, reduce the regulatory burden on our companies and have the courage to continue investing in research and innovation. It builds Europe stronger and inspires others to follow suit. It is also together that we best meet the climate challenges. The EU can be a leading force to curb global warming, clean up our seas and streams from plastics and pollution, and halt the development of extreme weather, fires and floods. The Green Voice of the Center Party makes a difference. We have been driving the work of bringing with us a majority in the European Parliament to raise the EU's climate ambitions and to achieve the emission reduction target from today's 40% beyond the Commission's lower target of 55% up to as much as 60%. It is a clear step towards the goal of a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. This is a victory for Europe's green, liberal forces, but more importantly a victory for the climate. It can give the EU an even clearer leadership role in global climate action, which can hopefully be reinvigorated by a more pragmatic and cooperative voice in the White House and a USA that is once again part of the Paris Agreement. It is also important to continue the fight against antibiotic resistance. We have pushed for stricter rules for the discharge of antibiotics in the EU. Now we also want to see a global agreement, like the Paris agreement on climate change, with binding targets for reducing the use of antibiotics. We must continue the work of giving the EU an even more sharp climate policy, tightening up the emissions trading system, taking advantage of the green gift and continuing to work for healthy and safe food throughout the EU. It is also only together that we can create a safer and safer Europe, face terrorism and organised crime that do not care about borders, continue to share information and strengthen police cooperation. Europe's history clearly shows how successful we are when we work together on crucial issues. The Center Party will continue to be a force for a green, democratic and free Europe, for what gave us strong support in the previous European elections, for a European cooperation that holds together and serves as a model for the rest of the world and for a Europe that stands up for the equal rights and freedoms of all people and protects transparency and equality. We will continue to be a counter-police against xenophobia and populism and against those leaders and forces within the EU who now believe that it is possible to remove pieces of people's freedom and democracy without destroying the whole. Mr President, I would like to In times of concern and crisis, we will be a self-evident voice in favour of everything that has built Europe strongly historically – free enterprise, trade, the ability to connect people together and the strength of liberal democracy – also being the foundation of the Europe of the future.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-85	Mr President, I would like to Today, Europe is hard hit by the covid-19 pandemic. The number of infected people is high, while health professionals are making enormous efforts to save lives. In several countries, residents have been ordered to stay indoors, maintained by patrolling police. It is a Europe that we are not used to. Once that was the case, the EU did not manage to stick together. Protective equipment to be sent from warehouses or factories in one country to another was seized, and those who ordered it were not. One effect of the pandemic is that even the EU has now realised that previous austerity policies are not working. The fiscal frameworks are sidelined and state aid restrictions no longer apply. For years, however, the EU has been pursuing a policy of cutbacks and economic austerity. It has weakened our resilience to crises. We need stronger public health systems throughout Europe. In Sweden, a substantial renovation of elderly care needs to take place. Skilled staff should have good opportunities to do a good job. The EU's right-wing policy has created major problems through the deterioration of working conditions. For many years, the EU has been rigged as a race to the bottom in terms of wages and conditions. It creates precarious, unsafe jobs. It creates workplaces where the infection easily spreads. Consider, for example, the German slaughterhouses. Employees usually come from poor EU countries in the East, and they have poor conditions. Among other things, they live cramped on a small surface. There have been consequences. Only 1 300 people were infected in a single slaughterhouse last spring. As a result of the pandemic, Germany has now changed its laws. But it should not take a pandemic for workers in Europe to get better wages and living conditions. We need to create a working life where everyone has the financial opportunity to stay at home if you are ill. It's about having a salary that means you don't have to live too crowded. It is about the union having to be strong so that important protective equipment is in place. Free social partners who negotiate and agree on wages and conditions are the cornerstones of the Swedish model. It has served Sweden well. It is the employees themselves who know best what problems and solutions exist in their industries. No politician, whether in Stockholm or Brussels, has that competence. On this issue, our trade unions and employers agree: Swedish wages should not be set by bureaucrats in Brussels. Solve the problem of low wages in some EU countries without threatening our Swedish model! Mr President, I would like to In the wake of the pandemic, we have also seen some states introduce laws that restrict personal freedom, laws without a time limit. There is therefore no guarantee that states will abolish the laws following the pandemic. One example is Hungary, where the government has increased its powers and people who are considered to spread untruths can be imprisoned. Countries that do not live up to the principles of the rule of law have advanced their positions during the pandemic. From this year on, those who violate the principles of the rule of law may lose EU support. But Hungary and Poland, in particular, have at every opportunity succeeded in making changes and in delaying their introduction. In Parliament, the friends who vote with them have. The Left Party has had tough demands on conditional EU funds so that the money does not roll into the pockets of leaders of governments that dismantle democracy. There must be an end to prematureity and guarantees are needed for the protection of fundamental human rights. Mr President, I would like to The situation of Kurds and other opponents in Turkey is becoming more and more unsustainable. At the same time, the EU continues to pump billions into the country to keep refugees away from Europe and continues to pay out pre-application aid, which legitimises Turkey's repressive policy. The test wells off the coast of Cyprus clearly show that Turkey does not respect the EU and that the EU is tied back in the case of Turkey with the migration agreement. It is time that the EU imposed an arms embargo on Turkey. The Swedish Government must continue to push this issue hard and, at the same time, push to stop any financial support for Turkey. The EU must start taking responsibility for the refugees instead of buying itself freely.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-99	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats went to the last elections to the European Parliament for elections with a slogan of a just enough European Union. Some issues definitely require cross-border cooperation, but others are best dealt with at national level. I intend to take this perspective more concretely in my speech. The Coronandem has hit Europe hard in terms of both health and the economy. In the short term, increased coordination and continued focus on vaccination is required. We must also focus on Europe's economic recovery and strengthen the Union's crisis management capacity. But, Mr President, the crisis must not be an excuse to move the EU's powers beyond the framework of the Treaty. We have always been a pro-European party. We know that we need to work together on peace and security, on the internal market, on climate and on the environment and on the challenge of migration and on combating cross-border crime, on countering terrorism and on promoting social development in all Member States. But it is possible to show solidarity with affected people and economies without regulating wages or demanding quota parental insurance and an unemployment fund at EU level – proposals that are now coming on a broad front from the so-called social pillar. We warned the government and Stefan Löfven when he invited EU Heads of State or Government in 2017 to adopt the social pillar. We already saw at that time the risks of coming up with several new directives that would take over what is actually national competence. Today, the government should be self-critical. Because we can now see that we must fight to ensure that the European Union does not now present a directive, a legislative proposal, on minimum wages, which risks the whole of our labour market model. Mr President, I would like to The government lacks the ability to fight for Swedish values, something that the EU Minister highlighted that it does. Even the allies of the Social Democrats LO criticise the government for not doing enough to stop the European Commission's proposed directive on minimum wages. LO, TCO, Saco, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Swedish Municipalities and Regions and the Swedish Employers' Agency wrote before Christmas, in an open letter to the government, that the government has acted with caution and inaction. It's a criticism of something! Mr President, I would like to At the end of December, EU Member States finally agreed on the long-term budget, the recovery package and an agreement with the UK. This was important to get in place before the end of the year. However, an analysis of the EU's long-term budget and the Corona package shows that the EU has now taken a new path. The recovery package consists of an enormous loan and grant package. That is why the EU now wants to push for new taxes and charges. The Parliament's Finance Committee has clearly stated that it does not want to see taxes at EU level. The government must therefore be clear on this point in its EU contacts. Here too, unfortunately, we see a passivity from the government. Mr President, I would like to It is important that funds that are now to be provided as both grants and loans to other countries within the EU are subject to strong control. And if EU cooperation is to stay together, it is also a prerequisite that the mechanism of the rule of law is respected by all Member States. Unfortunately, the government has shown inaction in EU cooperation. The government reacts too late and too unclear when it comes to important values for Sweden. Here, Mr President, I believe that the government must change its strategy and now become more proactive and active, for the good of Sweden.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-108	Mr President, I would like to No man is an island, complete in himself; every man is a piece of the mainland, a part of it all. It becomes almost a bit classic English humor when you consider that this so often quoted poem was actually written by an Englishman – parliamentarian, priest and poet John Donne. For while the realization that no one is complete in itself has apparently been lost by the British who pleaded for Brexit and who after many if and but also got it, this insight is part of the answer to why liberals always advocate cooperation over isolation, internationalism over nationalism and free trade over tariffs. Mr President, I would like to Covid-19 brings unprecedented difficulties to the globalised economy of our time, and it took far too long for the European Union to devote the force and attention required by the crisis to the pandemic in full seriousness. Once the EU started to act, it has come up with strong and coordinated efforts to facilitate the fight against crisis, including financial support measures. But the pandemic also showed that the spinal cord reaction of many countries is to close the borders and turn inward. The coming years will therefore be extremely important for cooperation. Sweden as a small, open economy must be at the forefront of a comprehensive trade strategy within the EU and with the rest of the world, for an ambitious climate policy and for increased competitiveness. Crisis can be turned into opportunity if we learn and change. Then it is crucial that Sweden now stands up for and prioritises the work within the EU on the European green given – the Commission's overall plan for the EU to become climate neutral by 2050 – and to transform the EU into a green, climate-neutral Union while at the same time having both economic growth and prosperity. This will mean changes for a wide range of sectors, both at EU and national level. This will mean that, as a national parliament, we must realise that more issues need to be regulated at European level if we seriously mean something with a green future. There is no alternative for those who believe in facts and scientific evidence. Liberals are pleased with the EU's strengthened climate targets. The phase-out of coal, oil and gas can finally begin in real life. But this also requires that we give nuclear power the same opportunities as the other types of energy. The discussion about what the European Union is and should be and should do is important, and perhaps the most important part of this is our values. For what are we without a common spine? Together, we need to share a vision and an action plan that clearly shows that the European Union is a Union of values, where it becomes clear that Member States that have promised to comply with the Copenhagen criteria but do not do so will have clear consequences and that our values will not end at the borders of the European Union – that we do not abandon the Eastern Partnership and those who are today fighting for democracy in Belarus and Ukraine, that we are clear in our condemnation of Putin's Russia, where once again the opposition leader Aleksej Navalnyj has been arrested just because he is precisely the opposition leader Aleksej Navalnyj, that we see and are solidarity with our southern neighbourhood, including in the distribution of vaccines against Corona, and that people who flee are given legal opportunities to safely enter and obtain asylum in a common Europe. Mr President, I would like to In order for Sweden to be able to contribute to this Europe and be the important liberal voice that I and many actually stand for – you don't have to be liberal in order to be liberal – we need to be a wholehearted partner in European cooperation, part of the core of the European Union. Today, however, we risk losing influence in the Union. By standing outside the euro and the Banking Union and still standing outside the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is now at least approaching, Sweden is also outside central parts of the cooperation. In addition, when the Swedish Government chose a wifely line in the budget negotiations, and once again Sweden's lukewarm attitude towards the EU was reaffirmed, Sweden was isolated from most of the countries of the Union, which increases the risk of us being sidelined. That's not good enough. We know more, and we want more.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-116	Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago, the Capitol was stormed, and the emergency was announced in Washington. What has happened in the United States recently seems to have been taken out of a drama series from Netflix or HBO, but this is the reality, as described in the media. But why do I start with the United States in an EU debate? Well, the point is that we cannot take democracy for granted – neither in the USA, the EU nor Sweden. We must fight for democracy every day, in the world, in Sweden and in Europe. Democracy is the foundation of a functioning society. Sweden has long been a strong voice for democracy and the rule of law in the EU and the world. A strengthened framework for democracy and the rule of law was agreed in December. This means that Member States engaged in corruption, which do not respect free courts and which round freedom of expression and freedom of the press should not receive any money. The new, strengthened regulatory framework means that Poland and Hungary can no longer hold each other back because the veto has been removed. The government has clearly pushed for this with the strong support of the parliamentary parties. More people than ever are on the run. Today, there are very few opportunities for refugees to enter the EU legally and safely. Instead of being able to seek asylum in their own country or neighbourhood, people are forced to flee via unsafe routes and end up in the hands of smugglers. Many refugees drown on this journey. The fact that the EU is putting itself in the lap of despots to prevent refugees from coming to Europe is double wrong and an untenable order. It is important for Europe to assume its responsibilities in solidarity and reach political agreement on this issue. Asylum law must be respected, and the trial must be legally secure. It is unreasonable for people to have to risk their lives in order to get to freedom and security. The foundations of the European Union are freedom, democracy and respect for the rule of law and human rights. The EU needs to stand up for this in solidarity. During the autumn, the UN reported that the world is heading for several degrees of warming. The consequences of this are disastrous. On the night of Wednesday, December 30, the police were alerted about a landslide in the Norwegian municipality of Gjerdrum, about 30 km from Oslo. Over 30 homes collapsed, and more people died. The cause is heavy raining. When the soil becomes so wet that it becomes unstable, the debris can be a fact. Climate change will mean more rain and heavy rain, with the risk of more landslides and floods. It is therefore crucial that the EU takes climate leadership in the world. After all, the history of the EU began with six European countries starting to cooperate on the production of coal and steel. Instead, the EU is now aiming to become the world's first fossil-free continent and to produce steel without coal, modelled on the Swedish project Hybrid. In the wake of the Corona revival, the EU has a clear focus on green recovery, with climate and circular economy. That is the right way to go. The EU's single most important tool to reduce its climate impact is emissions trading, which costs power plants and industries the release of carbon dioxide. Under the leadership of Isabella Lövin, Sweden launched something that came to be called the Swedish proposal. This reform removes excess emission allowances rather than high emissions, which has caused the price of emissions to skyrocket. Now we see the result. The day before yesterday I heard reports that the price of allowances has become record high. Fossils are becoming increasingly unprofitable, and coal is now collapsing at a raging rate across Europe. This year, the Commission will review all climate-related policy instruments, including emissions trading. It is extremely important here that Sweden push and ensure that emissions trading continues to be tightened up. It will also be crucial to ensure that the Greens get an ambitious implementation. Finally, looking back to this year, we see a Europe that has been tried by Corona and Brexit but also a Europe that has matured and learned from the crisis. We see cooperation that has really shown that Europe is the way forward.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-129	Mr President, I would like to The speeches we have now heard show, in my view, how much consensus there is indeed on significant parts of Swedish European policy. This is welcome, and as EU Minister, I would like to thank him for his good cooperation, not least on the EU Board. This makes it easier to develop Swedish EU policies and to have an impact on what we prioritise in cooperation, and it has a special value for the forthcoming EU Presidency, which will be in less than two years' time. I hope that, over time, we can also have a greater consensus on social issues. After all, the government that I represent sees it as self-evident to strengthen the position of employees by making working conditions fairer, that people should have equal opportunities and better access to the labour market, that children should have the right to childcare and preschool, and that older people should be guaranteed a dignified life. But this cannot only apply to the inhabitants of Sweden. After all, sustainable European cooperation is also promoted by the fact that social disparities are not widened in other EU countries too, if more and more Europeans are able to live on their wages, if more and more people receive decent education and if more and more people around Europe also share responsibility for home and family. But wanting more and better for people in Sweden and in the EU does not mean that this needs to be steered from Brussels through legislation at EU level. What this means is that, in important parts, we want to try to pull in the same direction by setting common goals, by comparing ourselves with each other, by giving good examples and by working on recommendations to strengthen welfare and reduce inequalities and to keep Europe together. I hope that this ambition will be supported by as many people as possible.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-132	Mr President, I would like to The vaccine glows like a light in the dark. But if we are to cope with the greatest mass vaccination in European and Swedish history, we need collective leadership. This applies in Sweden and in the EU. It will not be enough for humans to vaccinate themselves. We also need to have a joint vaccination certificate in place so that we can open up our continent as quickly and safely as possible. It is a crucial part of the recovery. Sweden must now join the countries that are pushing for a common vaccination certificate. Others can't do the work for us. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for European Affairs: will Sweden on Thursday give priority to the issue of a common vaccination certificate? If the answer to that question is yes, I would like to ask you when you consider that it will be in place.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-135	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessika Roswall, for the question! I can tell you that, as recently as yesterday, a communication from the European Commission raised a number of topical questions about vaccination in Europe. One of the issues is precisely the one about vaccination certificates, which says that there is a need for a common EU approach that can make us have a reliable, trust-building and verifiable way of certifying that people have vaccinated themselves. We affirm that ambition. We hope that it will be possible as soon as possible to develop common criteria for vaccination certificates in Europe, but I cannot yet tell you at what time this work will be completed.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-137	Mr President, I would like to As I said, this is incredibly important for Europe's recovery. It is said that several countries will have to be able to present a certificate. Then it is especially important that you can trust the certificates. As I also said, the Moderates believe that Sweden must put on the leadership shirt and run the work for a joint certificate and also jointly run this with our Nordic neighbours. For our border regions, it is crucial that commuting works. The prime ministers of Greece and Portugal have spoken, as well as the Socialist Prime Minister of Finland. Denmark is developing a vaccine passport. I do not think it is enough, as the Council of State here today, to say that we are in favour of this. It's not enough. Words in this House are not enough; I want to know what the government is actually doing. And is there a Nordic line?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-140	Mr President, I would like to I can answer the question what the government is doing. We are very actively involved in European cooperation to bring this forward. We have a prominent representative on the EU vaccination committee, our own vaccination coordinator. We are probably among the countries that have the most experience in vaccination work. I think we can contribute a great deal to that work, and we will continue to do so. Then it is not entirely straightforward to require a vaccination certificate. After all, no one knows exactly about the fact that you are vaccinated means that you are also free from infecting others. Such considerations must be made. But that does not prevent the work on the certificates from continuing as soon as possible, and I want to pursue that ambition.
i-6WSxcZdwh98Ngh775ZrKni	Mr President, I would like to On 15 December, the Commission presented the Digital Services Act, the regulation of the Internet and perhaps in particular the major tech platforms. The Swedish Democrats welcome this. Regulation can help to create clear rules of play. We would like to see a focus on illegal content and not on the terms of use. It is illegality that should govern what is allowed and not allowed. We want to maintain a diversity of views and rights of appeal. How does the government view the proposed regulation, and how does it want to ensure that the increased demand to remove illegal content does not lead to more voices on the internet being silenced?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-144	Mr President, I would like to The government welcomes the proposal for a regulation for digital services. It is about being able to make stricter demands on the responsibility of those behind the digital platforms so that illegal content is removed. The government, like the Commission, believes that platform companies need to take greater responsibility for taking down and keeping illegal content away. The proposal is now being negotiated in the Council.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-146	Mr President, I would like to Much in the Government's response the Swedish Democrats agree. As we see it, this is about basic information infrastructure. If you are closed out of a public opinion, you can have problems communicating with your friends and acquaintances and also doing business. Tech platforms currently control app libraries as well as servers and can easily even stop competitors. A wording makes me a little worried when I read the document that the government has previously presented. I interpret it as being happy to see that the platforms remove material for safety reasons and welcome the fact that the platforms take precedence. I see a clear risk that this will also affect legitimate voices, perhaps above all on the right.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-150	Mr President, I would like to I can't see any problem with whether companies want to go ahead. In Sweden we previously had a discussion about the possibility of removing child pornography from online platforms. Here the Swedish companies have gone ahead and made a voluntary agreement that this should not occur online. I think that was quite right.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-152	Mr President, I would like to Unfailing is the kindest thing I can say about the Prime Minister's actions at the European Summit in Gothenburg in 2017 when the EU's social pillar was clubbed. The Center Party said no and pointed to the risk that it would lead to new legislative proposals. Now we've got the facts. The European Commission has presented a sharp directive on European minimum wages that risks destroying the Swedish model. Unsurprisingly, the Commission referred to the social pillar when it presented the directive. There is broad agreement in Parliament that the EU cannot or must not legislate on minimum wages. Despite a united Swedish line, the government lacks strong action to stop the proposal. Other things are with the Danish Government. The parties to the Swedish labour market have called for the government to use all available means. Do we have to rely on Denmark, or does the government intend to cough up and take it seriously?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-157	Mr President, I would like to I don't have a problem coughing up. I can tell you that, just the day before yesterday at the General Council, I coughed up a clear statement that we do not accept this. It is not true that the discussion on minimum wages is a result of the meeting in Gothenburg in 2017. Minimum wages have been discussed for a long time within the European Union, and in several Member States there has been legislation on minimum wages for many years. There is nothing in the 20 principles of the so-called social pillar that says that there should be legislation at European level on minimum wages. On the contrary, it says that all wage setting should be in accordance with national practice and with respect for the independence of the social partners. That is our line, and when we work with others – and we really do not do it with passivity but as actively as we can – it is primarily to stop the proposal on minimum wages and, secondly, to ensure that it will not have to be applied here in Sweden.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-161	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the government has said one thing in Sweden and another in Brussels was what caused the parties to react and go out with an open letter before Christmas. Even in response to the EU Council, that is the line that the Government is setting out here, we hear, but I get reports of the opposite from elsewhere. Now that there is a great deal of unity in the Swedish Parliament and reports of weak behaviour, I become suspicious. In 2017, there was a big difference between the parties about which road Sweden would take, so the question is whether it is perceived as a problem to have to go against the first directive where the Commission refers to the social pillar. Is it because the whole social pillar initiative has come to an end with a proposal that does not take on tone in the way that I believe the social partners are calling for and expecting from the government?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-165	Mr President, I would like to I do not know what reports Annika Qarlsson has at her disposal say that we would have a different message in Brussels than in Sweden. Nowadays we are not so often in Brussels but have our meetings digitally, for example the day before yesterday. It would normally have been in Brussels, and then I would have said the same thing there as I said at the digital meeting and that all the other EU ministers could hear loud and clear: we should not have an order in Europe that means that we in the Swedish labour market cannot put wages in the way we are used to, which is that the social partners do so without the influence of others.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-166	Mr President, I would like to The aid organisation Oxfam recently presented a report showing how Sweden, together with countries that can be regarded as tax havens, is blocking important measures to stop international tax evasion. Among other things, the government has blocked companies from having to account for their profits and how much tax they pay in the different countries, i.e. a public list that would facilitate the work against tax evasion. The social democrats, who claim to be against tax evasion, have voted against proposals, as representatives of the government, which would make tax evasion more difficult and avoid pushing for stronger rules. These are measures that could provide us with more resources for our common well-being. Why does the government prioritise big business over openness and transparency and block important measures to stop international tax evasion?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-170	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, I think I'll have to say that the question is wrong. Sweden does not give priority to large companies in the way described here. We have some clear starting points when we talk about taxes at international level. Firstly, we do not want any tax rights in Brussels; we are firmly opposed to that. Anything that can be interpreted as turning the European Union into a decision on tax matters at European level, we are opposed. Secondly, much of the international work is carried out at OECD level, which is why we believe that many of the efforts should be made to cover all countries and not only the European ones.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-174	Mr President, I would like to On the issue of public country-by-country reporting, Sweden played a crucial role in stopping the proposal that would force large companies to publicly account for how much tax they pay in different countries. The proposal would identify tax evasion and make companies less likely to have aggressive tax arrangements. In the last vote, the proposal could have been passed. However, Sweden chose to vote against the proposal together with the EU tax havens Ireland, Malta, Luxembourg and others, and the proposal was stopped by only one vote. In the 2018 elections, several parties promised to act against tax evasion, including the Social Democrats. Now it has turned out that only the Left Party has consistently stood for its electoral promises in that case. My question is once again: why are the Social Democrats failing their electoral promises? It is not a question of a common tax but of public tax policy.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-177	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to reiterate the principled starting points that we have on these issues. Of course, they still apply. I cannot see that the Socialist Party has in any way abandoned its electoral promises. We have no reason to facilitate or acknowledge tax evasion. On the contrary, we see the public funding of our welfare and all public activities in Sweden as an obvious starting point for the joint work. It is also about how we should act in the European Union. I really want to reject the fact that we would have gone against this electoral promise.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-179	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats say that the 20-point social pillar does not require directives or anything. The problem is that, for example, Portugal, which is now the country holding the Presidency, has said that it really wants to put its foot down, and the European Commission is also in favour of making directives out of most of the proposals that exist. That is the problem. When even LO says that the government has been passive, it must surely indicate that the government is thinking about what else we could do. Now there are more suggestions. These are quotas on company boards, for example, in order to increase gender equality. We are in favour of greater equality, but we do not believe in and the Riksdag has said no to quotas on company boards. And so there is the question of wage transparency, where wages are declared publicly, which goes against our tradition.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-182	Mr President, I would like to Of course we listen to LO. In fact, I talked to the Chairman of the LO about this only yesterday. I can tell the House that the strategy of the government to work on the minimum wage issue includes primarily trying to get the proposal off the agenda. We have now asked and heard for a judicial review in the Council's legal service of whether it is compatible and whether there is a legal basis for this kind of directive. If it turns out that there is one, it is important to make the form of the directive in such a way that it does not affect our way of setting salaries in Sweden. There is a wording – I think it is in paragraph 3 of the first article – that countries with a collective agreement model should not be subject to the requirement of minimum wage legislation. It is a matter of getting this so-called exception as legally sustainable as ever possible, and we will work for this.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-184	Mr President, I would like to In the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we Christian Democrats have also had to push for Prime Minister Nordmark and have now got on the track of trying to stop the proposal by mobilising a large number of Member States. This must be number one, but unfortunately the Government does not say this here. The second is to wait for the legal opinion and then try to minimise the damage from it. But the social pillar remains, and now another new proposal is coming for a Health Union. Although I know that the Government says that health issues are national competence, we are a little concerned that there could be the same shift there and that we will see directives in the area of health too. We have a pharmaceutical industry that has a turnover of EUR 105 billion per year and which we must protect. How does the Government view the risk of many of the initiatives now being taken going in the federal direction?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-187	Mr President, I would like to I do not consider that risk to be imminent. I do not see the reasoning about a health union as a sign of wanting to amend the Treaty so that there will be a different division of powers from what we have today. Health issues are national competences. However, I see a need for more coordination at European level. The discussion that we had earlier here in the speakers on, for example, vaccination certificates is a typical example of a coordination effort that needs to be made at European level. Developing vaccines at all with joint efforts is also a good example. I think that is the way to move forward. Then I am really in favour of our first attempt to stop the proposal with the help of allies. Only yesterday I had a conversation with a colleague from an Eastern European country who has not previously joined the sceptical line but is now able to get on the boat.
i-Xsk2kEcXryuvE41F3npL8c	Mr President, I would like to I will read a little here to begin with: EU competence on the matter is limited. SE welcomes that the legal service of the Council has been asked to deliver a written opinion. And: EU does not have the competence to set either a level nor a procedure for minimum wages. The Government called for where Annika Qarlsson had found her reports that showed that Sweden may have a somewhat softer image when it really applies in Brussels versus what they say here when we talk about the minimum wage requirement that several of my colleagues here have raised. Today, the following headline is in my house organ Helsingborgs Dagblad: It was Susanna Gideonsson who was quoted. I would like to ask the Government again: how does the Government view the statement made by the Chairman of the LO?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-192	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that I and the Minister for Employment had a digital meeting with both LO President and the other partners' representatives on the employers' side the day before Christmas when we explained how we see this. There is no paralysis in the way the government acts. We have two leading representatives in our Minister for Employment and our Prime Minister, both of whom have a strong trade union background. There are no better representatives than those of the line we advocate in this context. Indeed, the fact that we should be lame or passive or that we do not cough up enough objections to various proposals that come along is not true.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-194	Mr President, I would like to One thing I read out was from the Swedish representation, and the other was from Austria, which clearly states that it does not think it should be legislated on the issue of minimum wages. That's why I picked them both up. The EU Minister and I share the vision of prosperity throughout the EU. I believe, just as I believe the Government is doing, that we also need to invest in welfare for all. We need the social pillar, and we need social care, if we, as citizens of the European Union, are to feel that there is added value with the European Union. The fact that we do not see any beggars outside Konsum just today is not because Romania has taken responsibility for all its citizens all of a sudden but because it has closed its borders. I believe, like the Government, that we have a great deal of work to do on the social pillar, and I thank the Government for having made it clear that Sweden is a strong voice when it comes to maintaining the right of decision over the wage setting we have here in Sweden, but also when it comes to social justice for all European citizens.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-197	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with Tina Acketoft's assessment that both can be done.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-198	Mr President, I would like to In my introduction, I stressed the importance of a Swedish government prioritising what is in Sweden's interest. It may sound trivial, but unfortunately it is not. Yes, we have a government that has even managed to prioritise what goes directly against Sweden's interest, and we were many who warned about the risks. I am, of course, talking about the social pillar, which the Prime Minister and the Government were very much involved in developing. It even organised a summit in Gothenburg in 2017 to celebrate the establishment of the pillar. Just what the Moderates and others warned about has happened: the EU now justifies numerous proposals and initiatives with the principles of the social pillar. Instead of prioritising forward-looking reforms in the EU, Sweden now needs to put a lot of effort and political capital into trying to counteract and stop proposals that threaten the Swedish model. This could not possibly have been the government's objective. Now, just as many of my colleagues have been here today, we are receiving alarm reports that the Swedish Government is pursuing a defensive and weak line in the negotiations on minimum wages, contrary to Parliament's mandate and contrary to what the Social Democrats have promised the Swedish people. Sweden deserves a better government, a government that has a clear idea of what to use European cooperation for, a government that is doing its best to put these issues on the EU agenda – the issues that Sweden actually wants to implement.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-203	Mr President, I would like to I would like to insist that it is an urgent task for the European Union not only to deal with economic issues but also social issues. And it really isn't just me saying this. I found the other day a text that had been signed by the then moderate leader, as well as the Prime Minister: the Union must combat social exclusion and discrimination, promote social justice and social protection, equality between women and men, solidarity between generations and the protection of the rights of the child. He therefore felt that the Union should do all this. My question to Mrs Roswall is: why are she and her party friends now so averse to the Union's involvement, in the right way of course, in the social issues without moving any powers when it was so obvious to Fredrik Reinfeldt?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-207	Mr President, I would like to The problem with the social pillar is what we warned against, namely that it was not just a question of exchanging experiences but that it has become directives and that there will be even more. That is what we see as the problem. I am not opposed to us coordinating on welfare issues and trying to ensure that everyone gets it equally well – so also in Sweden. But exchange of experience would have been enough. But it has become clear that the social pillar is not the right direction. In addition, I think that the developments we are now seeing with the Portuguese Presidency show that priority has been given to this. I think it would be pleasing and attractive if the Government here could admit that what happened in Gothenburg in 2017 was wrong. In the past, the government said that there is no paralysis. However, I would like to add another word to this discussion on minimum wages, namely the word diffuse and that the social partners see the government as diffuse in their negotiations on minimum wages.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-211	Mr President, I would like to No, I can't agree that we'd be diffuse either. I think we have spoken clearly when we have spoken to our colleagues around Europe, when we have spoken at meetings held by various Council formations, and also when we have spoken to the parties and told them what we have done. This report has been made, and I do not think it is a fair description that it would be diffuse, lame or passive. We have to say that we have different views here. But I cannot agree either that the 20 principles that came out of the Gothenburg meeting should be undone. On the contrary, I think that these are the right things to work for. It is based on the EU Treaty. The European Union has decided together that we should work on these things. Then, of course, it is a matter of doing it the right way. If the proposal comes in the wrong way, we shall oppose it. And that is what we are doing, and we are doing it together with broad consensus here in Parliament and with the social partners.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-213	Mr President, I would like to To do so properly, I believe, is to increase economic prosperity and to work together for the values that we talked about earlier – freedom and democracy for all the citizens of Europe. I do not think we will get recognition from the Socialist Government that this was the wrong way to start the social pillar instead of trying to focus on the right issues. I didn't expect that either. However, I would like to send the Minister that, now that the Portuguese Presidency takes office and we see a focus on the social pillar, I hope and assume that the Government will ensure that it has a strategy to counter the proposals that will come and that continue to undermine the Swedish model.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-216	Mr President, I would like to We have a great deal of agreement in this House on the view of taxation at European level, that it is a red line. We also welcome the moderate clarity on this issue and the criticism of the Corona Fund. At the same time, only two parties in this House wanted to vote against the budget settlement, and wordings on EU taxes were part of it. This raises the question: Where does the Moderate line really go? Why were they not prepared to say no to this?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The Moderates have always been strongly critical of many parts of the EU budget. These include the fund and the size of the fund. It is also about EU taxes. We have consistently stated this, and we have had a broad consensus on it. We have not been there to negotiate, but it is Stefan Löfven who has this responsibility. We have been criticising this all along. We are absolutely not satisfied with the agreement that was reached, but we were also not prepared to overthrow the agreement and thus put Europe in a deep economic crisis.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-221	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. As I see it, we in this House have a responsibility to try and steer the government in the right direction. If we always have the view that the government has to take responsibility for its part and that we do not interfere, it becomes quite strange. In this case, I believe that Sweden would have had a good opportunity to stop writing about EU taxes. There was nothing to be introduced. Had we been clear that we will not accept these wordings, I think it would probably have been possible to remove these wordings from getting through other things. At least then we would have managed to improve the Swedish line somewhat.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-223	Mr President, I would like to I also believe that we could have negotiated much better precisely with regard to the wording and the texts relating to taxes. We were very clear about that in the EU Council, and I was very clear that the government there was not doing its best. We didn't see any changes in the right direction. Our message in the EU Council was not given in any way to show respect for the government or to support the government, but it was given because we alone did not want to block an agreement and thus put the EU in a deep economic crisis. That was our motive.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-225	Mr President, I would like to Agricultural policy accounts for almost 40% of the EU's total budget. Today, agriculture also accounts for 17% of total EU emissions. CAP agricultural aid is not at all in line with what research requires in order for agriculture to become sustainable. Recently, Parliament voted on agricultural aid for this period. Chemicals will continue to be used, subsidies to the livestock industry that emits more greenhouse gases than the EU's combined car parks may continue indefinitely and Member States are prohibited from deciding for themselves on stricter environmental rules and so on. Although the Moderates have not made themselves known as a climate party, they have criticised agricultural subsidies. Why did the Moderates not give more priority to the environment than to maintaining an agricultural aid against which they are actually critical?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-228	Mr President, I would like to I am opposed to the fact that the Moderates have not shown a strong side to the climate issue – quite the contrary. We believe that Sweden will show leadership in the EU and that the EU will show strong leadership on the climate issue. We can set an example for other countries. There we have been very clear about what proposals we have. I would like to reconnect with the social pillar and ask the Left Party a question. The Left Party gave the green light to the social pillar after the 2017 summit. Now that you hear this discussion going on today about, for example, minimum wages and the Swedish model, do you regret saying yes to a social pillar?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-230	Mr President, I would like to I want to stick to my subject, which is agricultural aid. There are many positive elements to the new agricultural aid, for example, that 30% should go to environmental measures, but one right does not weigh up several errors. The EU's agricultural policy is not only poor environmental but also a distributive policy disaster: 80% of payments go to 20% of the largest farms and landowners. In addition, agricultural aid undermines democracy and fertilises corruption in countries such as Hungary and the Czech Republic. Large sums go to relatives and friends of the Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán and to the Czech Prime Minister, who is also a major owner of the country's largest agricultural holding. The Moderates tend to promote the principles of the rule of law, but when it comes to agricultural subsidies, they no longer seem – or the risk of corruption – to be important.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-233	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry I didn't get an answer to the question. As far as the EU budget is concerned, I will say that we were critical of many parts of how it was designed. We would have liked to have moved money from different pillars to other pillars; Ilona Szatmari Waldau knows that well. Now it is about looking forward and trying to make the budget as modern as it can. I am very pleased that we have the rule of law mechanism in place, and it is fortunate that the European Parliament actually made that change after the Heads of State or Government managed to make a deterioration in that agreement during the summer. Thanks to the new agreement – the rule of law mechanism – I hope that tax money will not go to corrupt countries and states.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-236	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your first speech, Jessika Roswall! I thought I'd bring up something you brought up there. The Moderates are a warm supporter of free trade. I have also read in your party programme that you think that human rights are very important and that they should be respected at all levels of society, both in Sweden and internationally. On behalf of the Green Party, I think it is important to look at both of these issues at the same time. This year, the European Commission will present a legislative proposal for the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights to become law. When this bill has been prepared in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the Moderates have given their thumbs down for it. I would like to hear why and what the background is. Why do we want to provide guidance and not legislation?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-239	Mr President, I would like to I am not on the Employment Committee, so I have to be honest about the answer. I would like to say this: just as Amanda Palmstierna has mentioned, cooperation is extremely important for the Moderates, and one of the main reasons for this is that we believe in free trade. We believe in competitiveness and in the unity of the European Union that creates jobs and prosperity. I think that solitude and protectionism are the wrong way to go. Of course, human rights are an incredibly important issue in this. If I am going to draw a little bit on the question, I can say that the answer may in part be another thing that I raised, namely that together in the European Union we can speak with one voice. We can move on to qualified decision-making in foreign affairs and thus work together on these issues.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-242	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the answer, Jessika Roswall! After all, the European debate is very broad, so I have every respect that all the issues may not be included, so to speak. However, I would like to make it clear that such legislation is very important. The European Commission carried out a study, and a great many European companies are in favour of such legislation. The reason is that you want an equal playing field where it should not be possible to compete by violating human rights. The reason is also that in 2020 there was still child labour and also wages in production that cannot be lived on. The message is that it would be incredibly good if Sweden could stand up for this legislation in a clear way.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-245	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your help, Amanda Palmstierna! I maintain that it is important that we prioritise free trade and ensure that there are more free trade agreements in place. We must not move towards a closed and protectionist world. I would perhaps like to make a contribution to the Green Party on the eve of the summit, about something I also mentioned in my speech. It is that part of the transition is that we are actually taking in that nuclear power will be a necessary part of it.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-247	Mr President, I would like to Environmental and climate issues will continue to be high on the European agenda during the year. The commitments under the Paris Agreement are to be updated, and we have the green one. Perhaps the most topical thing right now is that taxonomics should be decided. The EU has an important role to play in combating environmental problems. The internal market means that our countries are intertwined, and we Swedish democrats often welcome regulations at European level in this area. However, in their eagerness to control details during the show, one size fit is often crazy. We have maritime and water policy, where the Weser judgment at European level makes it difficult for us, for example, to upgrade our water treatment plants. Thus, a slight deterioration in the quality of water in an individual part can overwhelm something that makes everything much better. We've got taxonomy, where we've been pushing for change. Nationally, we have succeeded – the parliament forced the government, as a single country, to vote 'no' in the European Council. But the decision was passed, and we are now in danger of having regulations that make it more difficult to harvest forests in a sustainable way and that hamper investments in the extremely important regulatory hydropower. We can have a situation where it is considered better to demolish houses instead of, which is more resource efficient, renovating them. The idea of taxonomics is basically good. The financial sector calls for better information on sustainable investment, but countries have different conditions. In Poland it can be a good climate measure to invest in gas and quickly shut down coal power, which it is not in Sweden. In some countries we should definitely not harvest forests, but in Sweden we have the opportunity to harvest more forests in a sustainable way. In this case, we must beware of Brussels' dream of making Sweden the EU's coal sink. The self-determination of our forestry policy has never been more threatened, and it is important that Sweden marks against this in all contexts.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-253	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by agreeing with Martin Kinnunen's request that Sweden protest against the way in which the taxonomy regulation deals with Swedish forestry. There you must have a completely different view from what has been expressed, and that is what the government has flagged at the highest level. However, I would like to raise another issue. I think most of us will be sighing with relief in a few hours when the presidential shift in Washington is completed, but there is one party here in the Swedish Parliament – or at least one party leader – who would have preferred the Republicans to continue to rule in the United States and Donald Trump to have four more years in the White House. I would therefore like to ask Martin Kinnunen whether, as Jimmie Åkesson has said, this means that the Swedish Democrats share the view of EU cooperation and other international cooperation expressed by President Trump. Would the European Union really have been created to make things worse for the United States? Is this your policy, Martin Kinnunen?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-256	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Minister. We in the Swedish Democrats have always been clear that we stand up for free trade. We like the idea of the possibility of trading with our European partners. In this way we do not share the Trump administration's view of trade barriers and other things, but there are clear dividing lines. From an ideological point of view, however, we naturally sympathise with policies that are harder on crime, reduced immigration and no on destructive identity policies, but it is a discussion that is separate from the failures that the Trump administration has succeeded in this period. From a purely ideological point of view, however, we will always prefer a responsible immigration policy, a no to destructive identity policy and an effective fight against crime over a left-wing liberal perspective.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-259	Mr President, I would like to I still wonder whether the embrace of the same ideological perspective as the outgoing US administration and the President also applies to important areas such as international cooperation, multilateral cooperation, confidence in the Paris Agreement, confidence that we can work together against pandemics in the World Health Organisation and so on. It is also a little startling, I think, that party friends of Martin Kinnunen who have nominated Donald Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize seem to stick to that nomination even after what has happened and says that the outgoing president has been successful in foreign policy. If this includes a approval of Trumps's attitude to the EU, it would be good to know that too.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-261	Mr President, I would like to I understand that this about the outgoing US government is an exciting discussion to deepen, but we in the Swedish Democrats stand up for our own policy. We think that Sweden should be a member of the WHO. We think that Sweden should trade with our European partners. We also want better trade relations with the United States. Of course, we are not in favour of the trade restrictions imposed by the Trump administration. It must be said that Trump made terrible mistakes when it comes to what happened after the US elections. At the same time, there was success in the peace negotiations in the Middle East, where the relationship between Israel and a wide range of Arab countries today is better. That's a good thing. We as a party have not been involved in nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize, but individual Members have done so. There's nothing I'm going to comment on here.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-265	Mr President, I would like to Although the Swedish Democrats are no longer pushing the demand for a Swedish EU accession, there are quite a few questions within the European cooperation that the party is opposed to, including the EU's migration policy. For the EU's basic principle of free movement to work or even exist, an effective EU-wide migration policy is needed. Today, there are major shortcomings in Member States' compliance with the current common regulation in place. This leads to an uneven reception and a particularly high search pressure on Sweden, among others. I wonder what the Swedish Democrats think. How do you think the Member States' asylum and migration legislation should be harmonised?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-268	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I welcome the moderate shift in migration policy. For many years we had a problem in Sweden with the fact that the two major power parties jointly argued for mass immigration to Sweden. We no longer have that, and that is a positive thing. It is also positive that the Moderates are clear in their criticism of the proposals for a new common migration policy in the EU. On the Swedish Democrats' side, we believe that it is essential to maintain the independence of the states in this area, because that is the only way we can ensure a responsible policy on migration to Sweden. On the other hand, cooperation at EU level is important. We must protect the EU's external border. We must be able to exchange information with each other so that all countries are better at this.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-271	Mr President, I would like to That's a little bit why I ask-- I don't really understand. Cooperation at EU level must therefore be maintained. This may be a matter of detail, but in order to bring about a regime in which Member States actually have a migration policy that they have decided on jointly, there is a proposal for the European Asylum Support Office (Easo) to be strengthened in order to ensure that the laws of the Member States are harmonised. This proposal opposes the Swedish Democrats. Can Martin Kinnunen elaborate on this?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-272	Mr President, I would like to The fundamental thing for the Swedish Democrats is that we should not hire migration policy to the EU. We shall use the EU to cooperate on migration issues, but countries must be allowed to set their own rules. We should not have net immigration to Sweden. We have been pursuing an irresponsible migration policy for decades; we cannot do any more. We cannot, of course, accept a common EU policy that imposes such demands on us as immigration and imposes such demands on our country and imposes redeployment and such things on us. That is not acceptable, but we in Sweden must stand up for our own interests. What we need today is zero immigration.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-274	Mr President, I would like to The basis for European cooperation is democracy, human rights and the rule of law. In budgetary work, there has been a prepared proposal which is about a democracy lock to enable the Union to actually prevent those countries that do not comply with the basic principles from getting access to the budget. Before Christmas, this proposal came on the ground. In the past, there have been Article 7 procedures. Recently it has been Poland and Hungary that have gone in the wrong direction, and Article 7 procedures have been raised on several occasions. This requires unity, and they have been able to cover each other. This has made it impossible to take any action at an earlier stage. Now, however, it got a strong democracy lock in place. The Swedish democrats have not been in favour of establishing this democracy lock. Why not?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-277	Mr President, I would like to Nowadays there is a compromise – a deal – that all countries support, and we welcome this from the Swedish Democrats. We also welcome a more legally secure perspective on the issue of the rule of law. The basis for this is, of course, the wording of the Treaties. Of course, we think that these are good wordings, but transferring this to clear guidelines on how countries should shape their policies is not easy. The country's tradition and the way in which they appoint judges, for example, differ greatly. It is an educational problem for the EU to try to explain to voters in, for example, Poland, Hungary and Sweden what is considered legal and not legal certainty. For this reason, we want to be cautious about how other countries decide on their legal systems.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-279	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. What is interesting in this is that the Swedish Democrats have not been a constructive force to get this to be real and good, but the Swedish Democrats have afterwards passively said that this might not have gone so bad anyway. When it comes to a country's ability to protect democracy, to respect the equal value of all people and the principles of the rule of law, not to politicise the judiciary or to intimidate and threaten dissidents or free press to silence, and about women's right to their own bodies, the Swedish democrats have concerns and cannot take a stand, because it is a bit difficult to land in it. I find it very remarkable, and I find it sad that we cannot stand up for the equal rights and value of all people and make these demands on budgetary issues also at European level.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-283	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats stand up for the legislation we have in Sweden on abortion. The Swedish democrats do not think that we should have a European abortion policy, but this should be left to each country to decide for itself. What could happen if this were transferred to European level is that we are suddenly forced to follow the abortion policy of other countries. We know that Sweden's line on these issues is different from that of the vast majority of countries – we have much more liberal rules on abortion legislation than the other countries have. As far as constructiveness is concerned, it is not something that characterises the Center Party when it comes to the principles of the rule of law and the budget. What one is completely obsessed with is trying to strike at the governments of Poland and Hungary. What I would like to call on the Center Party to do is to care a little more about Swedish citizens and taxpayers and what happens to their money.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-285	Mr President, I would like to I'll continue on the line. When we discussed the principles of the rule of law in the EU Council this summer, all parties, except the Swedish Democrats, felt that Sweden would push this issue hard. Although Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats did not oppose this, the EU's need to introduce rules to comply with the principles of the rule of law was tried in different ways. In the European Parliament, the Swedish Democrats have consistently voted against the introduction of rules on the rule of law. Last time, we also saw Swedish-democratic MPs share theories about electoral fraud in the United States and question the right of human rights organisations to criticise Victor Orbán. Even Orbántrogna media in Hungary have questioned the election results in the United States and angled the storm of the Capitol as the faults of the scandalous elections and Biden. I would therefore like to ask whether the Swedish Democrats give priority to democracy and whether Martin Kinnunen believes that Hungary is living up to the principles of the rule of law.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-289	Mr President, I would like to The main focus of Sweden's democrats when it comes to discussions on the EU budget is Swedish taxpayers. The EU as a whole pays around EUR 100 billion to Poland and Hungary in support of cohesion policy. It is absolutely absurd that we should send so much money to these states. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that wants to take away all this money. We want to deprive Hungary and Poland of EUR 100 billion in cohesion aid. Why is the Left Party not clearly pushing us to remove all this money that Hungary and Poland are receiving today from Swedish taxpayers? I do not think they should have a single crown to finance their infrastructure policy, but they should do so themselves.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-292	Mr President, I would like to I note that Martin Kinnunen does not answer the question whether the Swedish Democrats believe that Hungary complies with the principles of the rule of law. In fact, I don't think I've ever heard a Swedish Democrat criticise Hungary. Rather, various forms of support have been provided. One example is when members of the EU Board and the Foreign Affairs Committee met Hungarian representatives for a conversation. There opened one of the Swedish Democrats by calling the Swedish Democrats Hungary's only friend, unlike the other parties in the room. I have to say that I am a great friend of my father's country of birth Hungary, and that is precisely why I can criticise the policy pursued. Another country that the Swedish Democrats never criticize is Poland with its LGBTQ-free zones, controlled mass media, bans on abortions and the rule of law. There are many threats to democracy in Europe, but from Sweden it is quiet.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-295	Mr President, I would like to I have just explained that I want to remove EUR 100 billion from the budgets of Poland and Hungary. It's a pretty powerful attack. I do not think that these countries would regard this proposal as particularly friendly. It is not our role as Swedish politicians to decide what is legally secure and not legally certain in the Polish legal system. We also have a situation in Sweden where it is the government that appoints judges via a council where they appoint representatives. It is not easy to try to clarify what is legally certain and not in relation to appointments, and so on. And what individual Hungarian politicians have said about the elections in the United States is completely uninteresting to me. The focus for us Swedish democrats when it comes to the EU budget is to bring about the best possible conditions for Swedish taxpayers. For example, the fact that we have to pay as little as possible for subways in Eastern Europe is the priority of the Swedish Democrats.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-299	Mr President, I would like to It has been a little unclear how the Swedish Democrats have set themselves on the principles of the rule of law in the years that we have now negotiated on the long-term budget and the Corona package. We see from the Christian Democrats' side a huge threat to the fundamental values of Europe. And I am pleased that our party leader in the EPP, which is the Christian Democratic Group in the European Parliament, has been very clear that Hungary and Poland must be in line with the demands of independent media and justice systems. Martin Kinnunen said here earlier that we should be careful to decide on the legal systems of other countries. Does Martin Kinnunen really mean that we in the EU should not have a common norm for independent justice systems?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-302	Mr President, I would like to Since we have the discussions on Article 7 procedure and other things, I think it would definitely be possible to discuss how to clarify what kind of legal system a country should have if it wants to be in the EU, so that this becomes clear to the voters in the different countries. At the same time, we must respect the fact that it is people in France, Germany, Italy, Hungary and Poland who go and vote for their government because they want a specific policy. Should we then sit here in the Swedish parliament and say that these voters voted wrong, that the political party they voted for was not okay and that we do not like this? I think we should be a little humble and simply refer to the democratic process in these countries.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-305	Mr President, I would like to I find what Martin Kinnunen is saying very worrying. When you enter the EU, you have to follow what is called acquis, that is, the fundamental values that the EU stands for. Otherwise, you must not become a member of the European Union. Then, starting to flinch the values of an independent judicial system, free independent media and so on, of course, is something that the European Union must take measures to change. This statement by the Swedish Democrats surprises me and is very worrying. I'll try to get another question. It concerns the common foreign and security policy, where the EU is now moving a little forward because the US, especially in recent years, has been weaker in the transatlantic link. How do the Swedish Democrats see us taking some new steps to increase cooperation in the field of foreign, defence and security?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-309	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats welcome better cooperation on all issues in the EU, and we would like to see better cooperation on foreign policy. On the other hand, we do not think it appropriate to remove the veto. We're opposed to that. We do not want to increase supranationality in this area. When it comes to the debate on the principles of the rule of law, it means from our perspective that if we are to decide over other countries, they can also decide about our laws and regulations here in Sweden. For example, we lack a constitutional court in Sweden. If Poland were to remove its Constitutional Court, the European Union would knock it down hard. I think we should have a constitutional court in Sweden. But perhaps I do not think it is up to the European Union to decide in that case.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-311	Mr President, I would like to A greener, freer and more democratic Europe was the goal that the Center Party met with voters in the European elections last year, and it was a vision shared by many. In fact, we made our best European choice ever. We work every day to achieve the goal, because it is only by understanding that climate change does not take a break during the pandemic and that we need to become more people who want to do more for the climate every day that we can take Europe and the world forward. Thanks to the Center Party and other green liberal forces, the EU is taking many important steps forward here. We are tightening up the emission requirements for new passenger cars in order to reduce emissions from Europe's transport. We ban a range of disposable plastic products, which is welcome when our seas are filled with more than 150 million tons of plastic. And we are tightening up the requirements for total emissions reductions in the EU. But we are also safeguarding a free and democratic Europe. We take a clear stand against those forces which more or less restrict the right to abortion, which deprive women of power over their own bodies, their own lives. They threaten journalists, persecute dissidents and politicise the judiciary. They dismantle transparency and stifle freedom. One of our most important electoral promises, to put a democratic lock on the EU budget, has already become a reality. We will now be able to stop leaders who cannot subscribe to the principles of democracy and the rule of law from accessing EU funds. Madam President, I would like A greener, freer and more democratic Europe becomes a model for more people. We can also move towards a greener, freer and more democratic world.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-317	Madam President, I would like Annika Qarlsson has spoken against the proposal on minimum wages in previous lines. I am glad that we are a majority in Sweden that is opposed to the EU deciding on Swedish minimum wages. I hope that Annika Qarlsson and the Center Party also agree with the importance of defending the Swedish model, in that it is the social partners who determine wage conditions and conditions on the Swedish labour market and that politicians should not come and decide on minimum wages etc.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-319	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ilona Waldau for the question. With regard to the directive that has come from the Commission, we agree on that part. What's interesting is if we back up the band for a number of years. We were already concerned at the time that opening up to the social pillar would bring about this type of legislative proposal. In this situation, our parties did not carry out the same analysis and did not share their views, but had different approaches to whether we should say yes or no to, affirm or prosecute, the social pillar. The Center Party saw the risks already then and would have liked to have seen that Sweden had not taken the initiative. But there our parties took a different position. We stand on different legs in the history behind the fact that there is now such a bill. But we agree that we do not think that Europe should introduce this.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-322	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. This leads to my next question: what is the difference between the politicians in Brussels and the politicians here in Stockholm? In Stockholm, the Center Party has interfered in the negotiations of the parties and threatened legislation if the parties do not do as the Center Party wants. As late as November, the Center Party refused to give LO influence over new LAS, although IF Metal and Handels are now allowed into the heat. Annika Qarlsson's party thus has no problem with legislating in Sweden over the parties' heads. What is the difference between the clout of Brussels politicians and that of the Center Party?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-325	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you very much for the question. It's very interesting. As far as areas of competence are concerned, the EU does not have the skills to go into detail in the labour market. That competence is national. When we have looked at the different parts of the labour market, we have also seen that there needs to be greater mobility, greater flexibility and greater security for workers in order to be able to retrain and come to the next step when the labour market changes. Throughout that package you may need to adjust the laws that exist. Yes, it's national competence. That is the big difference between the EU and Sweden.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-329	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Annika Qarlsson for her speech. I would like to point out that Annika Qarlsson mentioned that the Center Party is a green voice. It is really needed in Europe. I would like to commend the Center Party for their work on the subject of antibiotics in the European Union. On the other hand, when it comes to a non-toxic everyday life and water issues, it is unfortunate how the policy of the Center Party has developed in the European context. A few months ago, the Center Party ensured that Sweden changed its feet on the water issue and stood on the same side as not very progressive forces in the EU. Now, however, Sweden was saved by the EU on this issue. We also have the lead hail, which is a toxic substance from the first gram. From running REACH and conducting a nontoxic policy, Sweden is now suddenly for lead hail. Why is that?
i-Dn1bdtunoEqDRBUxLFYs5o	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Amanda Palmstierna! On all policy issues, there are constant trade-offs. It's on the one hand, and it's on the other. There are none of our political issues that are not of that nature. When it comes to water, you can access the right effect in different ways. That's what was in that part. When it comes to lead hail, it's interesting. We in Sweden have strong legislation. It's very uptight where you can use lead hail and not. According to the proposals for adoption, there would not have been many square metres in Sweden where lead hail could have been used at all. Perhaps in the long run we should remove the lead hag. But it must first have come up with another option. It doesn't exist at this time. That is why we were involved in pushing for a change in that position.
i-KHWDCu6kCjJXr5HodNpxTA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Annika Qarlsson! It is absolutely true that it is on the one hand and on the other. It can be said that the environmental party is constantly weighing the environment more strongly. We simply think that the environment and the non-toxic everyday life are more important than in this case the hunting interests. What was unfortunate in this case was that Sweden has for many years and decades been pursuing a non-toxic policy but suddenly changed foot, after a strong lobbying effort. It harms Sweden's confidence as an environmental nation in the long run. That was unfortunate. As far as water is concerned, if it had become a reality, we would have allowed lobbies in a way that we do not think makes any sense at all.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-340	Madam President, I would like In these matters, one cannot believe that there is only one way to reach the goal. There are a variety of issues where the Center Party and the Green Party agree on where to go but not how to get there. These two questions are also examples of this. There are far better ways, for example, to protect and care for the forest, to ensure that we have biodiversity by strengthening forest owners' right to continue caring for the forest for which they are responsible. If you want to go through bans, there are completely different consequences. I would say that we very often share the objectives, but we do not share the view on the way to achieve them.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-343	Madam President, I would like We need to make huge public investments to cope with climate change. The fact is that we need to rebuild our whole society in order to push down emissions. We must invest massively in sustainable infrastructure, renewable energy and better housing. The Left Party wants to see an investment in jobs, welfare and reduced emissions. And we demand that the climate changes be fair, so that those who release the most will also pay the most. We and our progressive colleagues in the European Parliament are working hard together with the environmental movement to raise the low climate targets and to introduce more binding environmental and climate regulations. We expected a Swedish government made up of environmentalists and social democrats to assume their responsibilities. But the government's action on the European climate law disappointed us. EU climate law is a step in the right direction towards achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. But the European Parliament's ambition to reduce 60% is already too low. The Left Party believes that the ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions should be 70 per cent by 2030. The Swedish government pushed at least 55 per cent reduction in emissions in one context and 60 per cent with a view to more in another context, and then back to 55 per cent. That's how it was done. In the end, however, the Swedish government was forced to agree to 55%. That is exactly what the Left Party warned about; if the Swedish Government pursues different goals in different contexts, Sweden's line will not be credible. Now there is hope that, in future negotiations, Parliament will not recede and withdraw from the decision of 60%. I'd rather raise it. The Left Party is not going to give up. The climate can't wait.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-349	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to hear Ilona Szatmari Waldau publish the text both in her first speech and now on what important efforts the EU should take on. I can agree with a great deal of it, but I also have a different view on other things. What makes it difficult to rely fully on the Left Party on EU issues is the Party's fundamental scepticism towards the whole EU idea. The Left Party's party programme still states that it wants to leave the EU, even if it does not push for a withdrawal right now. To say the least, it is a bit odd that the Left Party seems to associate itself with Boris Johnson, who seems to think that you can take back some kind of control just because you withdraw from a collaboration. My view is that we gain more power and influence by having a well-functioning European cooperation. I wonder: Is it still the Left Party's view that Sweden should withdraw from the EU and do as Britain or could this change?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-352	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the question. The Government has read the Left Party's party programme and knows what it says, so I do not need to repeat it. What is stated in our party programme is, of course, what applies. Nor is it a secret that there are proposals for a new party programme with completely different wordings about our view of the European Union. The Left Party will be an EU-critical party, regardless of what is decided at the Congress if we want Sweden to be a member or not. This is the way in which we are most likely to achieve changes in the European Union. We need to be critical in order to reach somewhere.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-354	Madam President, I would like We will see the future if there is a shift on this point in the Left Party Party program. It has been a little strange that in Sweden the Left Party is on the anti-EU line. In other parts of Europe there is much stronger commitment to European cooperation and European integration among the very left-wing parties. It is a bit odd that the Left Party in the Swedish Parliament seems to have the most in common with the Swedish Democrats on EU issues. You really wonder if that's where you want to be.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-356	Madam President, I would like The Left Party cannot take responsibility for the politics of other parties, but only for its own. We are an EU-critical party, and then certain issues often end up together with other EU-critical parties. However, I believe that in the context of the European Union we often end up close to the government than the other European-critical party. That is my firm opinion.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-357	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with the Left Party's criticism of the government's figures. The Left Party no longer pursues the demand for a Swedish EU exit. It is good for Sweden, and the Moderates welcome this message. But I still have to ask a question: What is the Left Party for? When the EU votes on free trade, the Left Party votes against. It doesn't matter whether it's Canada or Japan. This is even true of the poorest countries in the world. When the EU votes on a common security policy, the Left Party votes against. When the EU is going to vote for us to fight terrorism together, the Left Party is also voting against. The Left even voted against the EU budget. My question to Ilona Szatmari Waldau is: What is the Left Party really for in EU cooperation?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-359	Madam President, I would like It will be difficult to answer Jessika Roswall's question, because it contained things that are not true. For example, we did not vote against joint work against terrorism. We said yes to that. However, like the Moderates but in other matters, we wanted to do it differently and tighten it up. We thought, for example, that not only can we assume that there is Islamist terrorism, but that there is also an extreme right-wing terrorism, which, for example, Säpo sees as a huge threat. It is also a major threat in Europe. We also suggested that problems can not only be tackled when they have already taken place. Preventive action is needed to ensure that young people do not end up in terrorism. It is difficult to answer questions when they start with a wrong assumption.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-362	Madam President, I would like If I add up the answer that I received with what was given to Minister Dahlgren, I still perceive that the opinion the Left Party sees in being part of EU cooperation is to be critical. I do not believe in it, but I think that we need to be involved in trying to achieve a common coherent policy. Just voting against and having a different position, as the Left Party has on the various issues that I highlighted, is not the way to go. I do not believe that success can be achieved in this way. My questions continue to be: What questions are you in favour of? What will you vote for in European cooperation? I and the Moderates think that Sweden should have an active role and put on the leadership shirt in EU cooperation. What does the Left Party want to vote in favour of?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-364	Madam President, I would like It's getting a little weird here. The Left Party has a different position because we want to go further and further in climate cooperation. We want to criticise countries such as Poland and Hungary for their shortcomings in democracy and for restricting the right to abortion. So there will be something negative when we have a different position, even though we want to do more. We see that the European Union can achieve a great deal, for example through climate change, when we come together and work together. But there are also major problems within the EU, such as the fact that the EU has a state aid policy that keeps poor countries poor. We see Europe as something in which we can work together. If we say 'no' to things that we do not mean are driving Europe in an environmentally friendly and solidarity-based direction, we think that is a positive thing, not a negative thing.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-367	Madam President, I would like The Left Party no longer calls itself opponents of the European Union. In the Left Party's EU election platform, it was clearly stated that the Left Party should work not to shift more power to the superstate project that it believes the EU has turned into. At the same time, a number of EU taxes, such as kilometre tax and air travel tax, are being hit. It also supports the social pillar of the European Union, to which the Commission itself now refers when it puts forward proposals on the statutory European minimum wage. How exactly does the Left Party believe that Brussels' power will be reduced if it is allowed to levy EU-wide taxes and influence conditions on the Swedish labour market?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-369	Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that we must work in solidarity within the European Union. We do not want to impose any taxes at European level. If there were to be charges at EU level, we would clearly say that these charges should go back to the Member States. We do not want to fatten the European economy. The same applies to laws within the EU. We believe that national competence should apply. However, the social pillar is positive. There are many good parts in it. There are, of course, huge social differences within the EU with poor countries in the East and richer countries in the West in particular. That is something that needs to be bridged, and then we need to agree in Europe on how to work to do it. However, going from there to legislative proposals that make things worse for some countries will never be accepted.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-371	Madam President, I would like In some parts, Ilona Szatmari Waldau deals with the complications of no longer being critical of the EU or no longer wanting to leave EU cooperation. However, there are still a number of proposals that contradict the role that is being sought in the work. I can't understand how it goes together when you say that you don't want them to get more but that they should still have the opportunity to charge different taxes – even if the money would go back to different nations. We want a social Europe and work towards the gaps that exist between different countries, and this is included in both the budget and other parts. But what you have done is to give the opportunity that the Commission is now referring to when various legislative proposals are presented. This is not in line with the image Ilona is trying to give of the Left Party policy.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-374	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that the Left Party has never said yes to any taxes at European level. There we are as critical as most other parties in the Swedish Parliament. The Left Party is still an EU-critical party. Whether the Left Party will continue to work for us to leave the EU or will work for us to remain is up to the Left Party Congress to decide. It is very clear to me that, while we are in the European Union, no matter what we think of our membership, we must make the best possible of membership. It does not work to stand by and say that we do not want to be involved and that we do not therefore take part in the decisions. It must be very clear what we want to achieve and that we must make the most of our membership. I mean, the Left Party does.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-377	Madam President, I would like I intend to raise the issue of Cuba. Socialist parties around the world are playing Cuba in the hands of the Communist regime and spreading a false image of the regime. Although the EU's political dialogue and cooperation agreement with the country has been in force since 2017, no progress has been made on democracy and human rights on the island. Despite the appeals of civil society and democracy fighters, Sweden and the EU continue to keep the regime under arms, something we have opposed, most recently in the EU Council. A review by the Civil Rights Defenders now quite rightly shows that all 70 human rights defenders with whom they have spoken believe that the situation on the island has deteriorated since the entry into force of the agreement. What does the Left Party say about the agreement? What political improvements does the Left Party think the EU's agreement with Cuba has led to?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-379	Madam President, I would like For me, democracy and human rights in Cuba are just as important as in Hungary, Poland or any other country. Democracy and human rights are one of the most important issues for the Left Party.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-380	Madam President, I would like Although developments are not moving in the right direction, the Left Party around the country continues to arrange meetings with the dictatorship's lobby group in Sweden, the Swedish-Cuban Association. As late as December, the left wing's local department in Malmö arranged an event together with that association. How does Ilona Szatmari Waldau view this?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-381	Madam President, I would like I cannot comment on what the various associations or sister organisations of the Left Party are doing and what meetings they are organising with others. I could imagine organising meetings where you are also critical. Having a meeting with an organization does not mean that you swallow the organisation's different opinions or its agenda to a hundred percent. I think it is important to engage in dialogue with your opponents, with those close to you and with those in the middle.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-382	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ilona Waldau for her speech. She raised the issue of climate targets – 55%, 65% and so on. It is hardly a secret that the Green Party is in favour of moving in line with science, because of course it is not possible to negotiate with science and the laws of nature. I want to take note of something that the Left Party said, namely that the Left Party cannot take responsibility for the politics of other parties. This is at the heart of the matter. Sweden pushed for a high-level alliance and ensured that the targets were raised properly. Then there was no room for political agreement to go even higher. Then the Green Party chooses to carry out a workshop, so that something actually happens with concrete emissions. We also show this in the European Parliament – we choose committees dealing with climate and the environment, while the Left Party does not. My question to the Left Party is: do you want nice words or do you want a workshop?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-385	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Palmstierna for the question. For the Left Party, it is incredibly important to have a workshop. That is also why we criticise the government when it comes to different Councils and with different objectives. If you have different goals, it becomes much harder to take Sweden seriously, and then Sweden's voice becomes weaker. I think that's enough for an answer.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-386	Madam President, I would like I'd say we had some clarity. We said: at least 55%, but preferably in line with science. There was no ambiguity about it. We take responsibility for ensuring that the whole European project can move forward together, so that Europe becomes the first fossil-free continent. It should not be forgotten that Sweden is an incredibly important driving force in the EU and that the EU is also an important driving force in the world. We are talking about the Brussels effect. I would also like to highlight the issue of emission allowances. There Sweden made an incredibly good effort with The Swedish Proposal, which led to the scrapping of a total of 50 times Sweden's climate emissions. I would say that is the biggest climate effort that Sweden has made globally.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-388	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Sweden is a driving force in environmental issues. I would say that the Left Party is one of the parties that push for that to be the case. But when you go forward with different goals, you're not clear. The Prime Minister says that at least 55% is Sweden's line. In another context, the Minister for the Environment says that at least 60% with a view to more is what we want. If you are going anywhere in the EU context, you have to be clear. The left is clear. We want at least 70% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. We sincerely hope that it is not the Environment Ministers' compromise that applies, but that Parliament will at least stand by its 60.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-390	Madam President, I would like At the end of last year, the European Commission presented a proposal for a Health Union. It is good that the EU is highlighting health issues. But it must not be another new area in which we are handing over decision-making power to the European Union. In decisions regarding what lies in this health union, namely the pharmaceutical strategy, the government must protect the Swedish pharmaceutical industry, which accounts for a large proportion of our export industry with a value of over SEK 105 billion. Of course, the most important thing now is to speed up vaccine distribution in the EU. We need to get out of this pandemic as soon as possible. Another major challenge ahead of us to solve jointly is the migration challenge. The Prime Minister has often referred to solutions at EU level. In the autumn, a proposal was made by the European Commission, but the government's position has been general and vague since the proposal was presented. That's not good enough. The Christian Democrats welcome the EU's increase in ambition regarding the climate. The green changeover offers great opportunities. The EU must now demonstrate that it is possible to reconcile CO2 emissions reduction with economic growth, competitiveness and increased welfare. Here, too, the government has wavered about different target levels. There have been 55, 60 and 65% in the EU and the Environment and Agriculture Committees. An important issue now under discussion at EU level is taxonomy and climate investment. We see risks in that our forestry, but also our natural resources such as hydropower, will be considered non-sustainable. Nuclear energy is also being discussed in this context. But nuclear power and hydropower account for 80 percent of Sweden's electricity supply. This is where the government must act. Unfortunately, the government has no strategy and is not proactive. We have to hunt the government all the time to highlight Swedish interests. Madam President, I would like Such a passive government in the European Union is untenable. Now there has to be a change.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-395	Madam President, I would like I must say that I admire the energetic ambition of Mrs Pethrus to point out the inaction of the government in all possible contexts. For my part, I can disprove it by saying that we really do have activity going on in all the areas mentioned by Mrs Pethrus. This applies from protecting the Swedish pharmaceutical industry to raising the issue of taxonomics at the highest level and what it means for the Swedish forest industry and also for the Swedish energy industry that we have a proposal that is not acceptable from Swedish point of view. We have an activity here, and we have it in the social field as well. It has somehow been thought, as Mrs Pethrus said earlier, that it is the Gothenburg Summit in 2017 that would have enabled the Commission to make proposals. It is what I hold in my hand here that has enabled the Commission to put forward proposals in the social policy field, that is, the EU Treaty. It was a government in which the Christian Democrats were also involved that proposed that the Parliament should ratify.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-399	Madam President, I would like Of course we support the Treaty. What we mean is that the social pillar became a starting point for pushing forward new directives we did not want to see. I think the government might realize it's still an engine. It is now an engine for the new presidencies. This applies, for example, to Portugal. The Government itself has acknowledged in the EU Board that they will push the issue of minimum wages. As far as the budget was concerned, it was the Netherlands' Mark Rutte who pushed and made sure that we came forward and got big discounts. As far as the pharmaceutical industry is concerned, we have also tried to push the EU Board for the government to take a stand on the fact that it is national competence and get it into the Swedish position. In the social field, we are in favour of social development. However, there is already a great deal of regulation at EU level on how to protect workers' rights. Of course, we will continue to do so.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-402	Madam President, I would like It is well known, I may not have to repeat it, that our view is that we support cooperation in the social field. We think it is good that Portugal is now addressing this at a special summit in Porto in May. This should mainly be done through work on common objectives, recommendations, comparisons, good examples and so on. I had to oppose the fact that it was Mark Rutte who arranged the Swedish discount in the negotiations this summer. I happen to have some insight into what happened there. I have also heard afterwards from those who really sat in all the negotiating rooms that it was someone in the so-called Frugal Group who got respect for their way of negotiating and speaking for the more cautious principles that we stand for, it was the Prime Minister of Sweden and not anyone else.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-404	Madam President, I would like I really hope that what Hans Dahlgren says is true and that you are pushing. But I can see, and we can see it in very many of our minutes from the European Council, that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates are constantly pushing for the government to adopt better positions before going down to the European Union. During this reign when you have been in power, we have continuously seen that you are far too passive and too hungover. It's like I said before. When not even LO feels confident that the Swedish Social Democratic and Red-Green Government is pushing to stop the proposal on minimum wages, it is no wonder that one feels worried.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-406	Madam President, I would like Women's right to control their own bodies is currently under attack in several EU countries, and this is particularly serious in Poland. When the European Parliament recently criticised Poland, whose court has basically banned all abortions, the Christian Democrats happily voted in favour of the condemnation. After all the years when the Christian Democrats voted 'no' in the European Parliament, it is certainly welcome. However, one of the Members said that she voted in favour because the resolution concerned mainly the way in which the governing party of Poland implements the Court of Justice, and not the right to abortion itself. It's part of a pattern. KD has members of parliament who say that they support Trump because of the issue of abortion and push for healthcare professionals to refuse abortions. It is one way of restricting the right to abortion. It is against the background of the KD's actions. My question to Mrs Pethrus is: what is the line of the Christian Democrats in Europe on abortion law?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question and for the recognition that the Christian Democrats have made many good decisions on the issue of abortion! I myself am Vice-Chairman of the Swedish Parliament's SRHR network, where we push the issue and also sometimes send letters to countries that are about to adopt bad legislation. We felt this particularly with regard to Poland's abortion legislation. This does not mean that we want the EU to decide on the issue of abortion. It is the same as with the health issues I was discussing earlier. What is national competence, and what is EU competence? There we are very clear that it is not EU competence but national competence. However, we should, of course, push for, try to influence and have the issue of equality on the agenda in the EU; the right to legal and safe abortions is something we stand for in international cooperation and have stood for in the alliance government. I don't have any worries there.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is good that the Christian Democrats want to push for the right to legal and safe abortions. For example, my own party has raised money for organisations working for Polish women's right to abortion. The resolution voted in favour of the KD states that the ban on abortion can lead to an increase in the number of illegal and unsafe abortions and abortion tourism with access only for some. This undermines the health and rights of women and puts their lives at risk. It will also be a cost issue and a class issue with abortion. What I wonder is: are the Christian Democrats prepared to support the organisations that are fighting for this in Poland? Or can you imagine making it easier for Polish women to have abortion in Sweden, for example by supporting the Left Party's motion for foreign women to have abortion in Sweden at a subsidised price?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-415	Madam President, I would like I remember that when Göran Hägglund was Minister of Social Affairs he stood up so that Polish women could come to Sweden and have abortions. Now it has not been so topical. However, in some cases when foreign women come to Sweden, they should have the right to have an abortion if it is not possible to manage in their own home country. I think the Christian Democrats have been open to it. It's important. I recorded the other day for the SRHR network in Europe a video for Joe Biden. We welcome and hope that the United States is now changing its policy of providing support for maternal health care, safe and legal abortions and also for genuinely preventing abortions. It is the most important work that we want to work for, of course.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-417	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mr Pethrus! I would not be surprised to ask Mrs Pethrus a question on climate change. Your European policy programme states that climate is a crucial issue for the future of mankind and that the international perspective is important. There's a deal. This year, the European Commission will present a proposal on climate charges. The aim is to level the playing field so that countries outside the EU will not be able to compete by ruining the environment and working poorly with the climate. Then the Christian Democrats should welcome this and exult, one might think. This applies from both a climate and an international perspective. But here I have heard the Christian Democrats say several times that they do not want to see this. That is why I wonder: do you want to take responsibility for the climate seriously or not?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-422	Madam President, I would like It is a bit difficult, because Amanda Palmstierna addresses a lot of issues that have been dealt with at EU level but that may not have been so relevant in our parliamentary work. We see the climate issue as very important. We stand up for what we call the idea of stewardship: we have got an earth to manage, and it is extremely important that we ensure that future generations have a good living environment. That is why the climate issue is very important to us. When it comes to how exactly this issue of charges will land, we are, of course, opposed to taxes and charges at European level, as the Green Party is certainly aware. Therefore, I cannot answer exactly how we land on this issue.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-425	Madam President, I would like The reason I am raising the issue now is that it was included in the budget negotiation that landed this summer. It was in the agreement and the writings there. All the parties that are in this room were very committed to this this summer, so we have probably actually discussed this and looked at it properly. I would like to say that it is important not to close the door to the proposal on climate charges. Our expert authority, the National Board of Trade, has looked at this and analysed it and has seen that this can be done in accordance with the WTO rules. It is important to get a level playing field to drive the industry. Even Joe Biden is looking at similar proposals, so I would like to say that this is an important way forward.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-428	Madam President, I would like Then I might understand a little more. That is what is actually referred to as climate tariffs – that others who bring goods to the EU should have equal conditions and that we should not be able to knock each other out by having lower or higher environmental standards. We are probably in favour of looking at the more concrete proposals that I assume the Commission will come back with. However, it is extremely important that we seek competition neutrality in more areas than just within the EU, so that other countries do not take over markets from the EU. It therefore feels that a WTO regulatory framework would be the absolute best way of achieving a more uniform regulatory framework in this area. We would prefer to see most of the measures relating to taxes and levies in particular not only come at European level but also at international level, so I see that we may be able to take a positive view of the question.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-431	Madam President, I would like There have been many of us here today who have talked about the major challenges facing the EU and Sweden and about the opportunities we see with cooperation. The discussion is very welcome. There's a lot of talk about putting on the yellow leader's shirt. However, the Liberals still want to see a European FBI to stop cross-border crime, a European carbon tax to reduce emissions, a strong rule of law mechanism that automatically links money to respect for the rule of law and a common internal market for digital services in the EU. Liberals want to create competitiveness by ensuring that women have the opportunity to work on the same terms as men in the EU. Liberals want a Europe of solidarity. In some of the questions we now have several parties with us, and that is very gratifying. We have a programme that is full of more concrete proposals than these on how we want to make Europe better for the future that we are happy to discuss further. We need to be helped to act strongly and not just speak beautifully for the good of Europe and Sweden. We need to build alliances with like-minded countries. We need closer contact with the European Parliament. We need opinion-forming for our cause in Europe. We need to be proactive. I am a strong supporter of the idea that Europe can actually be better than the sum of its Member States. It is about time we gathered together to join in shaping the Union of which we are a part. Unlike the Left Party, the Liberals do not believe that we achieve the best result by being critical. We believe that we achieve the best results by working proactively together for a better Sweden and the EU.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-436	Madam President, I would like I would like to mention the EU's trade policy. Many parties in the Swedish Parliament are eager free trade friends. I would like to stress that it is very important that the EU's internal market and EU trade policy be reformed in order to go in line with the Paris Agreement, also in order to respect human rights. Here we have things to work with. The European Commission is now making several progressive proposals in this area and is taking serious responsibility for a green and human direction. An important proposal is what I mentioned in my previous reply to the Christian Democrats on climate taxes, i.e. to ensure that goods imported from China, for example, have to pay the same cost of CO2 emissions as European companies. It should not be possible to compete by ruining the climate. Those countries that do least for the climate should not benefit from it, but we must have a level playing field. The second proposal from the Commission that I would like to mention is what I mentioned earlier about due diligence legislation. The Commission therefore believes that there should be a law for EU companies to comply with the UN principles on human rights and to take the environment into account throughout their supply chain. The reason why the Commission is putting forward this proposal is that in some places there is still child labour, deforestation, forced displacement of indigenous peoples, pollution and wages on which production cannot survive. And unfortunately it has become even worse now in coronatides. A majority of companies in the EU are in favour of this law, many Swedish companies have supported it and civil society is campaigning actively. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to raise this important issue clearly. It is important that Sweden push for climate taxes and for a company law on human rights and the environment. Sweden is needed in the EU, and Europe is needed in the world.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-443	Madam President, I would like I was going to come back to the climate crisis, which is one of the biggest problems we have right now – one of several, I am sorry to say. Unfortunately, we have a government that has not pursued a sufficiently climate-smart policy, but we have seen that Sweden's emissions have not decreased at the required rate. The EU has increased its ambition, which is a good thing. Sweden should be the driving force in this; I have said that several times. However, in order to reconnect with Ilona Szatmari Waldau, it has been noticed in this House that the Swedish Government has not been clear. Nor has it been when it comes to social issues, which we have dealt with several times – to put it mildly. Everyone in this House is now familiar with the word 'numberbingo'. There are other words: confusing, two different lines at once or even hypocrisy. I would therefore like to ask Amanda Palmstierna whether she supports the government and the Green Party's line of reducing emissions by at least 55% by 2030. It's been a little unclear. Is that 55, 60 or 65 percent?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessika Roswall, for the question! I would like to say that it has not been unclear, but we have always said at least 55% with a view to 65%. The Green Party in the European Parliament has also pushed for this to be in line with science. The Prime Minister has also made statements in the media that it really needs to be tightened up. When alliance parties launch the concept of numbersbingo and so on, it only undermines confidence in politics. We from the government take responsibility for our policies: at least 55% with a view to 65%. There's no confusion there.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-451	Madam President, I would like Here, in fact, we and the Left Party are in complete agreement. It is these different messages that have given us a lack of clarity and a lack of clarity. That's what's confusing. The European Council has reached an agreement on a 55 % target and, as I said, it is a good one and a great and strong increase in ambition. The problem for the Green Party and the government is that it does not understand that when, for example, Poland has joined the 55% and is about to make a transition, it is about nuclear power. It was a contribution I had earlier to Amanda Palmstierna and which I also mentioned in my speech: if we are to get away from dependence on coal and Russian gas and reduce our emissions, nuclear energy is part of this. I would therefore like to ask the Green Party whether it sees this and whether nuclear power can simply be a solution to climate change.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-454	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Jessika Roswall! When it comes to nuclear energy, I have to say that it is fascinating to see how incredibly much energy the parties spend on this in the European context. I can understand that this is an issue that is being put on time in national politics, but in the European context it is, of course, a national competence and, in fact, a border issue, so to speak. It is technology neutrality that should apply, and national competence applies. I think this is a way for the Moderates to pursue a national domestic issue in the European debate. And no, we do not believe that nuclear power is needed nationally.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-457	Madam President, I would like Sweden will apply for funds from the EU Recovery Fund. Approximately 30% should be earmarked for climate and environment, even more so if other funds are included. What I wonder is whether Sweden will earmark money for new climate investments or whether the government will use this for already committed budget lines such as conversion aid. At least this was the last development of the Finance Minister in the EU Board. My question is also how the government parties intend to achieve the EU's goal that the recovery instrument should lead to the EU becoming more environmentally friendly, digitally and resilient after covid-19 and better adapted to current and future challenges.
i-ArN1NdwMfANYVpnz7Zr9tH	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Ilona Szatmari Waldau! It is not 30%, but now 37% that should be earmarked. That money should be used to simply reduce emissions concretely into the atmosphere. There will be different projects and investments. Here Sweden has a long history and tradition of working in a far-sighted way with innovations and leading the development forward. One example is Hybrid, steel without coal, which has become a leading player in the EU and is something that comes up in many contexts. We will continue to work and push for it. This thing with a green recovery after the Corona is incredibly important.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-461	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Amanda Palmstierna! It is right that it is 37%. I am pleased with Amanda Palmstiera's reply, but I am also concerned that this picture may not be really shared by the government. I would like to point out once again that when she was last on the EU Board, the Minister of Finance was just talking about looking for money for what we have already done – various funds, payments, changes and extra budgets. We have still not seen anything going to the climate. For the Left, it is very important that we now use the crisis, if you can put it that way, to become more climate-friendly. As I said, I share that picture with Amanda Palmstierna, and I am delighted about that. The question is, do I share it with the government?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-464	Madam President, I would like It is probably my view that this is also the line of the government. For example, we have the Just Transition Fund, which benefits not only other countries in the EU, but also Sweden. There has been a decision, but with the delay before the budget was completely clear, that money has not been able to land yet, as it were. They'll come in the future. There are discussions with many counties and regions around Sweden. The Swedish Agency for Growth is working to prepare a mission. Different regions have also asked the Riksdag that their region be allowed to switch to different forms of industries that want to reduce their emissions. I would also like to highlight this issue of climate tracking. This is something that the Green Party has been pushing throughout the European debate. This means being able to prove that the money really goes towards climate action. There is now a very much sharper regulation in place, and we are very pleased with that. In this way, climate money will be real throughout the EU.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-467	Madam President, I would like The question of taxonomy, which is about sustainable investment, has been raised a few times in committee and in the EU Board. We note that the European Commission's proposal threatens Swedish nuclear power, but also Swedish hydropower, which is not considered a sustainable investment. How does the Green Party see including Swedish hydropower?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-468	Madam President, I would like Now I have to say that on this issue I am not super acquainted with all the details. I'll answer as best I can. What I can say is that Sweden supports the aim of taxonomics: to switch to a sustainable society and reduce climate emissions. Taxonomy, however, has shortcomings, and that is something that Sweden has pointed out. The Prime Minister has done so, as has been pointed out at various ministerial meetings. Now a referral has also been sent to the European Commission, which I believe is also available on the Government's website. The main thing here is that taxonomics should move in a sustainable direction and not counteract sustainability. It's incredibly important. Here the government has had broad consultation rounds with various organisations and actors. It has listened to parties and runs an active line.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-470	Madam President, I would like Let's hope for the government. At least we are trying to push for the preservation and security of our Swedish energy supply and for the investment issue to be resolved. I hope that the Green Party can also agree that it should be part of what is called taxonomy. I have another question that concerns a previous discussion here with the Moderates and the Green Party. It is about human rights in business and development. We had the question in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and then, as we understood it, it was about going into the articles of association as well. Afterwards we received an explanation from the department that the government is for what is called due diligence but not to regulate the articles of association. This is also the most common response from companies at EU level. My question is: how does the Green Party here in Parliament view this as a division on the part of the government?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-473	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that it makes sense to keep these two separate. We have not yet arrived at the analysis of what the Articles of Association actually mean. It's not quite clear there. We believe that it is very important to go forward with due diligence at once, and as far as the second piece is concerned, analysis needs to be carried out. It's still unclear. It is also very different from what it looks like in Sweden today. That's why you need to look at it properly. I would like to say: go ahead with due diligence, but with regard to the other, analysis is needed before we can answer the question. The debate on EU policy was closed.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-490	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report on freedom of expression. It is an extremely urgent issue like this in coronatides. We see that more and more countries have chosen to shut down their activities in different ways. We have seen justified shutdowns in order to save lives and health, but we have also seen unjustified ones, mainly in totalitarian states where one has seen its ability to further restrict people's freedom. When, thanks to vaccines, we have hopefully begun to see the beginning of the end of the pandemic, it is extremely important that we follow these issues closely. Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right that we cannot compromise, even during or after times of crisis. Freedom of expression is one of the foundations for democracy to function at all and for individuals to participate fully in a free society as free citizens. Madam President, I would like In recent days, we have been particularly reminded of the importance of these issues. I am, of course, talking about what happened to the Russian opposition politician Aleksej Navalnyj – the man who was in all likelihood the victim of an assassination attempt by Putin's Russian security service FSB but who miraculously could be saved after the plane he was on an emergency landing and that later he could receive treatment in a German hospital. The day before yesterday the indescribably brave Navalnyj returned to Russia after a long period of rehabilitation. This he did despite the knowledge of the risk of facing Putin's lackeys once again with all that it entails. He went there because he believes in what he's fighting for, and he did so after he himself managed to expose the agents who tried to kill him. Not surprisingly, police officers were waiting at the Moscow airport when he landed, and he was quickly taken to the prison of Matrosskaya Tishina – you will forgive my pronunciation. Like so many oppositionists in Russia, he is accused by the authorities of crimes that he has most likely not committed. In this context, it may be worth mentioning that it is the same prison that whistleblower Serge j Magnitsky was murdered in 2009. And yes, there is another similarity. Navalnyj can pose a serious threat to the parliamentary elections to be held in Russia this autumn when he has managed to reach young voters through viral videos where he has also exposed corruption among the elite. He has more than 2 million followers on Twitter. Navalnyj, according to Magnitsky's former associate Bill Browder, is Putin's worst nightmare. It is not surprising, then, that Putin wants to get rid of him. Let us together honor the brave Navalnyj. His spectacular and self-sacrificing struggle for democracy and freedom of expression must continue regardless of whether he is imprisoned or not. Madam President, I would like It is because of stories such as the one on Navalnyj that we Swedish democrats have repeatedly highlighted the importance of increasing the work to protect opposition politicians and journalists who are suffering in Russia. That's the way it is today. Developments in Russia have, as is well known, since Putin's entry in a democratically very negative and authoritarian direction. The country can almost be described as a dictatorship today, using tools such as legislation, propaganda and political influence over the judicial apparatus in order to limit, intimidate or stop the political opposition – in the worst case, it is also using state-sanctioned murders, as we have now seen attempts. The mere possibility of choosing different political parties in an election does not make it either fair or fully democratic. The situation of dissidents and critics of the regime is, and has long been, very difficult in Russia, to put it mildly. Madam President, I would like The issue I now intend to raise does not really concern this report, but it is nevertheless relevant to raise the issue this day, not least in the light of the prison that Navalnyj has now been taken to. I do not understand that we cannot agree in this House on the introduction of national Magnitsky sanctions in Sweden. There should be a majority in favour of this, and it is becoming tiring with declarations that we do not have it when the issue of targeted national sanctions is lifted. It's just to introduce. Why wait for the sluggish machinery in the EU? Of course, it is gratifying if we can try to bring about EU-wide sanctions, but that is not enough and it is going too slowly. Let us return to this report. The main part is about the independent commission of inquiry that will evaluate the government's actions in order to get the imprisoned Swedish citizens Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai released. These are, to say the least, urgent issues, and it is very positive that a united committee can stand here today and address this announcement to the government. It is high time to compile the various efforts that have been made for these Swedes in order to get a complete analysis of what has been done, what could have been done differently and what has not been done in these cases. We must simply ensure that the management has been correct and, of the experience that exists, understand how this type of case can be dealt with in the future. Sad to say, these things are supposed to happen even then. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report, reservation 1.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-505	Madam President, I would like Many times throughout history, attempts have been made by the power of the weapon to subdue the power of the word. But people's ideas and thoughts are always in the long run stronger than the weapon. Freedom of expression is constantly under threat, both in Sweden and in the world at large. Last year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs chose to break out of our report on human rights the part on freedom of expression in order to return to the issue and to the announcement today of a Commission on quiet diplomacy. It all began on New Year's Day last year, long before the coronap pandemic completely dominated the political debate. In an interview, moderate leader Ulf Kristersson said that he thought there should be a commission of inquiry into what had been done in the case of the publisher Gui Minhai. I bumped into Ulf Kristersson a few days later. We exchanged a few words, and I commended him for the good proposal. There was a time but no sharp moderate proposal if the Commission was presented. So when it was time for the parliamentary foreign policy debate in February, I said in a change of line with the Moderates that the Left Party supported the proposal and wondered when the Moderates were going to present it. Suddenly there was speed in the moderate machinery, and already the next day the Moderates put a so-called committee initiative on the table of the Foreign Affairs Committee. A few weeks later, the coronapandemine had struck Sweden with full force. Extensive consular work was started at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to bring home all thousands of Swedes who were around the world while travel restrictions were introduced worldwide. In this situation, the extra burden on the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' consular department with questions about two of their most difficult cases, of course, seemed unreasonable. The Committee on Foreign Affairs chose to slow down and leave the question of a Commission to rest in the autumn. At the same time, the talks between the parties were still going on, and more and more parties pointed out that they thought it was a good idea. The Christian Democrat Adaktusson pressed for Dawit Isaak's case to also be part of the Commission's work, including in a reply in Aftonbladet in August just when I and Moderate Wallmark had written about the need for an independent commission for the case of Gui Minhais. Earlier years had thoughts of investigating also Dawit Isaak's case highlighted in motions by both the Left Party and the Christian Democrats as well as by a group of members of the Riksdag in a multiparty motion rejected by the Foreign Affairs Committee. It is a result of the good dialogue between the parties that today we are making a unanimous announcement from the parties in Parliament to the government to set up an independent commission of inquiry to investigate the quiet diplomacy, focusing in particular on the Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai cases. In the report, the committee states that the Commission should be given access to all information, including confidential information, and should also actively seek information from relatives, officials and other persons involved in these consular matters. The Commission shall present its conclusions by 31 March 2022. ..................................................... It is an important decision we are making today. The great advantage of quiet diplomacy is precisely that it is silent, but quiet also means that an independent review of what is being done does not happen. This is something that civil society organisations, like Reporters Without Borders, have pointed out. With today's decision, Parliament will hand over the pen to the government. It is now the responsibility of the government to set up a commission and formulate guidelines for its work in dialogue with the parties of the Riksdag in the coming year. It is a heavy and important responsibility that needs to be taken by the government for credibility to prevail. I will then briefly talk about the two cases. When the eyes of the whole world were on the United States after the September 11 attack, the dictator of Eritrea took the opportunity to arrest a group of leading politicians who wanted to take the country in a democratic direction. One who was also arrested was the journalist and author Dawit Isaak, who had published the calls of politicians in his new newspaper. Dawit had previously fled and became a citizen of Sweden, but he had now returned to Eritrea to contribute to a positive development in the country, where the political winds had changed. The arrests interrupted democratic development, and Eritrea is today a dictatorship in which the former guerrilla leader, Isaia Afwerki, always has the last word in all contexts. After the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, Gui Minhai became a Swedish citizen. He worked on a few different things and projects but eventually became a publisher and writer. He started a publishing house based in Hong Kong. There was a market for political satire and realistic fiction about the luxury life of Chinese political leaders, with texts banned on the other side of the Strait in China. Hong Kong's then autonomy and democratic rights, such as freedom of expression, enabled Minhais Minhai's publishers to grow and increase their sales, especially to Chinese tourists. But then democracy shrunk. The Umbrella Revolution was brutally defeated, and those who stood up for the free word were increasingly persecuted. Gui Minhai got the Chinese regime caught up in by kidnapping him in October 2015 in his holiday home in Thailand, taking him out of the country and flying him to China. There he has since been prosecuted in a mock trial and released and then arrested, sentenced and imprisoned again. Much more can be said about both cases. A lot has previously been documented in books, articles and reports. But never before has work on the quiet diplomacy of Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai been reviewed. It's about to happen at last. To conclude, I will say a few words about the Left Party's reservation in today's report. Free media is a prerequisite for a democratic dialogue in which both political and economic power are examined on a factual basis. Threats to journalists and restricted freedom of the press are part of the shrinking democratic space and the limited space of civil society. I look with concern at the developments that are taking place around the world and believe that it requires clear action on the part of Sweden. Sweden, both as an individual country and as a member of the EU and the UN, must work to ensure that freedom of the press and freedom of action of the free media are safeguarded around the world. In Russia, new legislation has been introduced to give Russian authorities more opportunity to hinder access to the free internet for those living in Russia. Sweden must therefore, both as an individual country and as a member of the EU and the UN, work to strengthen freedom on the Internet in Russia. In Eritrean prisons is not just Dawit Isaak. There are hundreds of prisoners of conscience, journalists and former politicians who have not been prosecuted against them. They do not have the opportunity to meet lawyers or their relatives. Sweden must therefore stand up, as an individual country and as a member of the UN and the EU, and work for the release of all political prisoners in Eritrea, not just Dawit Isaak. In October last year, I and a number of left-wing parties tried to visit Selahattin Demirta, who is one of the representatives of the Procurdian party HDP in Turkey. In the Selahattin Demirta case against Turkey before the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey has been convicted, inter alia, of violations of the right to be brought before judges without delay. In many parts, the government has acted well and forcefully, but Sweden must continue to act forcefully to get Selahattin Demirta and other political prisoners in Turkey released. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-525	Madam President, I would like Freedom of expression is the greatest conquest of our civilization. There is probably nothing else in our history since the Enlightenment of the 18th century and beyond that has affected our societies more than just freedom of expression. It is a prerequisite for our democracy. It is a prerequisite for free research, for our development in the broad sense and for capitalism and a market economy. It is a prerequisite for people to be able to think critically and not be deceived and manipulated. Of course, it is also a prerequisite for peace. It is impossible to resolve the climate issue without freedom of expression and without people being able to criticise, review, inform and so on. Then, of course, freedom of expression has a limit. You can't threaten. You can't harass and so on. Of course, there is a border in the rule of law. But freedom of expression as a principle – that you have the right to express your opinion, the right to contradict and the right to replicate – is a fundamental foundation. A democratic and modern society cannot exist without freedom of expression. This also makes freedom of expression the greatest threat to oppression. That's why dictatorships hate freedom of speech. They do everything in their power to limit free speech. They're manipulating. They imprison critics. They're introducing draconian laws against civil society. They're closing newspapers. Examples have been mentioned earlier in the debate here, not least what Navalnyj in Russia has been exposed to and so on. The list of dictatorships can be made long. The list can also be made very long over in which countries such as freedom of expression are suppressed – Iran, China, Russia, Turkey, Cuba, Belarus, Eritrea and many other countries. In the European Union, too, we see these trends in some Member States, such as Hungary, which are trying to clear out people who are critical in the state bureaucracy, in the judiciary and so on. And for four years we've seen constant verbal attacks on free media from Donald Trump. That is why it is important, Madam President, that we in Sweden, which is a free and democratic country that stands up for freedom of expression, have a clear profile in our development cooperation, for example, to strengthen those who work for freedom of expression. It is important that we show support for opposition politicians who are harassed, stigmatised and oppressed in various ways. It is important that we work in order to be able to use our technological achievements in different ways. They can make it possible to build platforms and provide opportunities for activists and dissidents in non-free states to get past different types of firewalls and communicate in a way that cannot be monitored and so on. This report addresses a number of these aspects in a broad sense. There is another part of this report. It concerns an independent commission of inquiry into the Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai cases. I think that Håkan Svenneling, in his speech, well described their situation and how it happened when they were arrested. In the case of Minhais Gui, it was in practice a kidnapping in another country. It is very positive in such a matter that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is united. It is positive that it can be agreed that an independent commission of inquiry will have one year and also have access to confidential material and other things in order to get a good and accurate picture of how the government has acted in these cases – this also so that we can learn lessons for the future. Madam President, I would like I would like to read two paragraphs from the Foreign Affairs Committee's position text. Of course, the Liberals are behind this. As regards the government's action to achieve the release of Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak, the committee sees the need for the government to initiate an independent evaluation, independent of the government, by individuals who can independently evaluate the work of the government and the relevant authorities in this regard. Such an evaluation by an independent commission of inquiry may be useful in identifying the need to implement changes in any respect and, if such needs are identified, proposing measures. ..................................................... Some further down, it says: ..................................................... Now it is up to the government to also handle and follow up this decision in the Riksdag in a good way so that we get all the cards on the table, get clarity of the action and can see whether there are arguments for possibly even changing things in our actions. Of course, this must not happen in such a way that it in some way jeopardises the continuous work to get Swedish citizens who are imprisoned abroad released. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to support the Liberals' reservation 3.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-539	Madam President, I would like 2 207 Swedes – that's the latest statistics on how many people in this country are 100 years of age or older. It's been so long since we got democracy in Sweden with full and equal voting rights for all adults in Sweden. So 2,207 people in this country were born before this was a matter of course in our own country. It is important to remember that, because today we are taking democracy and freedom of expression for obvious reasons in our country. It should be. But it is also something that we think is worth sharing with other people in the world, and that is why Sweden is a strong driving force internationally for democracy and freedom of expression for all people around the world. 100 years of democracy is a long tradition, one might think. But at the same time, of course, in the long existence of the earth, it is only a blink. Of course, the fact that people who also want democracy and freedom of expression go to Sweden away from oppression is nothing strange. That they then go back, inspired by what they have been able to do in Sweden and what they have been free to think and express here, because they want to change their own countries and improve and democratize them is good in many ways. But sometimes it has consequences that neither they nor we want it to have, and they go to prison. Sweden has a number of people every year who, in different ways and for various more or less relevant offences, end up in prison, and we give them what we call consular assistance. We are helping them to get a proper legal process, and, of course, in cases where the charges are completely fabricated, we are fighting for their release. This is how we deal with the two cases in this report: Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. For too many years, Sweden has had to fight for them to regain their freedom and legal, legal processes – if any – and that they should have their charges presented to them in some cases. This is a struggle that often goes on in silence. It is spoken in such contexts and in this debate about quiet diplomacy. These are sensitive processes that sometimes stand and weigh. We have a number of those where we have been successful and people have regained their freedom. That work must, of course, continue, both for those people who are currently in prison and for those who, unfortunately, are likely to end up in prison in the future, for, as has been pointed out by previous debaters, these are unfortunately not the last cases. Now that we have agreed widely in the Foreign Affairs Committee to announce to the government that we want a commission of inquiry to investigate how work in Sweden has taken place on these cases, it is also with the perspective that we want us to be even better at this in the future. At the same time, we must not forget or transfer the responsibility for these people's freedom to Stockholm, because it is not in Stockholm that the decisive decisions on imprisoned dissidents are made. The decisive decisions are made in the countries where they are held in prison. That is where the decisions must be made to set them free. We from the Swedish side will of course continue to work for their freedom, and it is important for us to learn for the future how this work has happened in these cases and what lessons we can learn from it in order to be even better and even more effective in standing up for their rights and hearing for their release. It is also important for democracy and freedom of expression to be respected throughout the world. To go through these processes is of course a sensitive matter, and just as Fredrik Malm pointed out in his speech, it is important that the work is done in a way that does not harm the ongoing processes in order to get them free. You can't risk even longer in prison for Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. It is also included in the text of the report that work should be done in a way that does not harm ongoing processes. All of us eight parties want it to get better, not worse. How the work is to be carried out in a good and wise way will certainly be a challenge for those appointed to the Commission. But we have plenty of skilled people in Sweden, so I have great hope that they will be able to do the work in a good way that teaches us for the future and that brings us forward. I look forward with excitement to their final report next year. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-553	Madam President, I would like It seems to me that on 20 January we are debating and deciding on an independent Commission to review the handling and tours of the two Swedish citizens Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. It was exactly three years ago, on 20 January, that publisher Gui Minhai was on his way by train to Beijing from Shanghai with two Swedish diplomats. Almost there he was taken out of the train by security forces and since then held in custody, after serving a sentence for a traffic offence, after being kidnapped in Thailand and taken to the People's Republic of China. What was the real crime, Madam President? To publish and sell books, literature that is displeasing to the leaders of Beijing and the Coryphés of the Communist Party. Dawit Isaak is incarcerated in Eritrea. At present, it is impossible for Swedish authorities to reach him and assist him. The real crime, Madam President, has been writing articles and contributing to newspaper publishing – letters, words and sentences displeasing to the men of power in Eritrea. Madam President, I would like I think it can be said that the attendance of the Swedish Parliament behind Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak is monumental. There are obvious demands for release and for them to be united with their families. All claims that they would not be Swedish citizens or that Swedish authorities do not have the right to act for their cause are dismissed in unity by the country's parliament and parliamentarians as carpenter talk. Those of the Chinese or Eritrean embassies who follow this open debate in Swedish democracy can in reports home to their governments note and translate: Snickstack! Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak are Swedish citizens and therefore concerns for the entire EU. Madam President, I would like According to 9th chapter. Section 16, first paragraph The Parliamentary Order may propose a committee to the Riksdag on a subject that belongs to its preparatory area, a so-called committee initiative. With the support of this right of initiative, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is now putting forward proposals for an announcement to set up an independent commission of inquiry into the actions of the government in respect of two Swedish citizens detained abroad for using their freedom of expression. I am very pleased and proud that a united Committee on Foreign Affairs has finally reached this conclusion. Basically, it is based on a proposal by the Moderates in February 2020 for a Commission. This is something that was also mentioned in the debate on the foreign policy declaration last year when, unlike Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, I felt that we should mention Gui Minhais and Dawit Isaak's name from the Parliament's pulpit. And the Minister for Foreign Affairs thought that with a Commission this was not a good idea. This has been repeated when Moderate Party leader Ulf Kristersson demanded a commission. Madam President, I would like The truth is that the Social Democrats, the government and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have put quite a lot of effort into ensuring that there is no Commission. Other lots have been processed. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that we would not be standing here today if the Moderates and the Left Party had not joined forces and worked purposefully together, which confirms that parties with different interests can and should still find each other in parliament when interests and opinions are consistent. In August 2020, left-wing partyist Håkan Svenneling and I wrote a debate article after the conviction in connection with the trial of Sweden's former Chinese ambassador gained legal force: In the Riksdag there is a KU notification against Margot Wallström to deal with. The Moderates have called in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the appointment of an independent Commission on the publisher Gui Minhai. Something that gathered support from other parties and opposition from the government parties Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. We, the Moderates and the Left Party, now intend to re-start work together to gather support for the idea of a commission and that the Riksdag supports it. It is an independent Commission tasked with reviewing, evaluating and conducting an analysis of the government's actions on the issue of Gui Minhai in a broad sense. The many remarkable tours that took an end of horror through the famous meeting at Sheraton all stem from this difficult consular matter. There is every reason to clarify what has happened but also to look to the future. ..................................................... In addition, we wrote the following: and with the trial and the action of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs against the ambassador appointed by the Government, there is reason to look at shortcomings in the Swedish foreign administration and its handling of a prioritised consular issue. It is of great importance that the Swedish Government is able to protect citizens who are in danger abroad and that effective and well-functioning help is provided. This is from our joint article. So my thanks to Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party. Now we are here when, in today's documents in Parliament, we read, with great similarities to the initiative that the Moderates have launched in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in the report: As regards the government's action to achieve the release of Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak, the committee sees the need for the government to initiate an independent evaluation, independent of the government, by individuals who can independently evaluate the work of the government and the relevant authorities in this regard. Such an evaluation by an independent commission of inquiry may be useful in identifying the need to implement changes in any respect and, if such needs are identified, proposing measures. ..................................................... Furthermore, the report states that the Commission should be given access to all information, including confidential information, and should also actively seek information from relatives, officials and other persons involved in these consular matters. The Commission shall present its conclusions by 31 March 2022. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is a bad idea, it has been argued by the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Foreign Affairs Department. Be that as it may, even though I and the Moderates have consistently been of different opinion. However, it is now being implemented on the basis of a proposal from a united Foreign Affairs Committee in the Swedish Parliament! I support the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-572	Madam President, I would like Fundamental freedom of expression is, of course, a prerequisite for a democratic society, for citizens to feel that they have the right to speak without the risk of being arrested, that there are legal conditions for restrictions that are clear so that they do not end up in the grey area that too many people unfortunately find themselves in if we look around the world. Sweden has a long history of freedom of expression and of the press. It has been important for the development of Sweden. But we see, Madam President, that democracy is going back globally. It's been 15 years of decline. There are not many countries, whether you choose to turn to Freedom House or to read The Economist to see the global picture, which is full democracies today. The concept of full-fledged means to have freedom of expression and basic conditions for democracy, i.e. to participate politically, write and influence the development of society. Too many have seen restrictions. It may have been covid that has affected, and there may have been other reasons for having gone disproportionately far to restrict freedom of expression, such as terrorist attacks. The decline in democracy has also meant, unfortunately, that journalism is one of the world's most dangerous professions today. Journalists are clearly exposed, identified and threatened. It is the same with authors and individual opposition politicians. In this report there are some requests for motion, and I note that these rightly point out Russia. It is one of those countries where freedom of expression has been restricted. There you must not stand up because you are a LGBTQ person or pursue such questions. Then you risk perhaps being imprisoned, shot, arrested or otherwise harassed by government representatives. Journalists are taking a ride. Opposition politicians are being put in jail. The clearest example today is Navalnyj, which is now the subject of another so-called court case. The European Court of Human Rights has already condemned it following previous proceedings against Navalnyj, but that is not something that concerns Russia's leadership. It believes, despite membership of the Council of Europe, that it has the full right to set aside the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. China is a very clear example, but Turkey is also included – but not noticed here – as well as Hungary and Poland. It is countries close to us, where attacks on journalists and opposition politicians and against freedom of expression are clear and they are trying to make self-censorship expand and grow. This is the beginning of what we see in countries such as China, Russia, Belarus, Iran and others. It is important that we from the Swedish side are clear in all these cases and stand up for freedom of expression. Madam President, I would like Our Swedish citizens Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak are particularly noted, both for reasons of exercise and in the initiative described here earlier. They are particularly noted in this report. It is clear that China's action against our Swedish citizen Gui Minhai is totally unacceptable. That's what they call a trial process. But it is a trial process that is political, just as the Russian against Navalnyj will be, where the Communist Party decides what is to apply and what the verdict is to be. Of course, it affects the whole condition. We do not accept these kinds of political trials and do not see them as free. They are not in line with international regulations, and the verdicts cannot be accepted. China has also tried to influence the citizenship issue by making Gui Minhai only Chinese and no longer Swedish citizens. That too, of course, is totally unacceptable, but that is something we will certainly see in other contexts. Dawit Isaak has been in prison this autumn in Eritrea for 20 years, except for the brief moment he was released. Eritrea's actions against our Swedish citizen are equally unacceptable. The silent diplomacy has applied and taken a little different forms. It is the subject of the independent commission of inquiry which a united committee now claims to want to see. It has been a journey in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Madam President, from the first proposal that came to where we are now making an announcement. It is not the Riksdag that appoints the Investigation Commission, but we call on the Government to do so and to ensure that this is done in a way that does not threaten Gui Minhai or Dawit Isaak and the work that is going on to get them released. It should not mean that we give a basic course book to those who want to read how quiet diplomacy is done. Here we are moving in an area where foreign secrecy is clear, and it is obviously a great responsibility to ensure that this does not become a reading book for other countries' diplomatic trainings when they try to act to rebuke Swedish citizens who want to use their freedom of expression and their right to write. But these are clearly political cases. To imprison journalists and writers is to imprison freedom of speech. Then we need to act – possibly in a different way than in other consular cases. It will be interesting for us to take part in the evaluation when it comes – in the part that may be public. I have some thoughts about how this can be made so clear that we can debate it in this House, but hopefully we will get a picture that will allow us to go further on the issue of quiet diplomacy. On our part, we have a special opinion here. It is about the fact that the work to get Gui Minhai released must not be hindered by this Commission. It must not be an excuse not to act for his release. I would just like to remind you of this.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-591	Madam President, I would like In the autumn of 2010, I met a quiet and almost modest person in Ethiopia's capital Addis Abeba. His name was Eyob Habtemariam and had served as a jailer in the prison where Dawit Isaak is imprisoned. At the risk of his own life, he had fled the dictatorship of Eritrea, but also from a high-security and strictly supervised service in one of the most feared prisons, the infamous Eiraeiro. Hearing the jailer's dissipated account of the conditions in prison was shocking. The cells without windows where Dawit Isaak and his fellow prisoners are kept locked up measure three times three meters. Prisoners are forced to sleep directly on the concrete floor. All forms of human contact and communication with personnel or fellow prisoners are strictly prohibited. The names of the prisoners are replaced by numbers. Madam President, I would like The description of this helllike existence has followed me through the years and still does so. It is painful, but learning from the brutality and crimes against Dawit Isaak is necessary. On 21 September, 20 years have passed since he was imprisoned by the diabolical regime led by Isaia Afwerki in one of the world's most paranoid dictatorships. Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone doubts the will or the good ambitions that have been in the solid work over the years to get Dawit Isaak released. Nevertheless, we are forced to note here today that the work has not produced any results. The strategic efforts and the quiet diplomacy are a failure. Despite the failure, both moderate-led and social-democratic-led governments have chosen out the relevant tools to put pressure on the leaders of Asmera. For example, the proposal to put an end to the illegal taxation of citizens in exile by the Eritrean regime, the so-called diaspora tax, has not been tried. This is despite the fact that the United Nations has called on Sweden and other countries to do just that and despite the successful use of the diaspora tax by the United Kingdom as a tool against the Eritrean regime. Conditionalising Sweden's and the EU's aid to Eritrea has not been tested either. Given the acute vulnerability of Dawit Isaak, this is deeply regrettable. On the other hand, the European Parliament's Development Committee has established that there are no conditions for effective development cooperation in Eritrea. Personally, I belong to those who over the years have pushed for Sweden's and the EU's aid to be clearly linked to the release of Dawit Isaak. That view has been shaped through all the years I have followed the case and not least, Madam President, since the meeting in Addis Abeba in 2010. Madam President, I would like Important questions are unanswered with regard to Dawit Isaak, and this also applies in the case of Gui Minhai. The fact that he could be arrested in Thailand by the henchmen of the Chinese Communist regime is in all his powerfulness and insolence almost unsurpassed. That a few years later, three years ago, he was released from captivity and even allowed to contact Foreign Office officials just to be later returned to house arrest is cynical and deeply upsetting. Of course, the circumstances of this need to be clarified, and of course the political handling of the case needs to be examined – not to accuse and judge, but to learn and draw conclusions for the future. For as many have pointed out in this debate: it is essential that every Swedish government is able to protect and assist citizens who are threatened and denied human rights outside our country's borders. Madam President, I would like If freedom means anything at all, it means the right to say to people what they do not want to hear. These words, formulated by George Orwell, illustrate the central importance of freedom of speech in all societies. At the same time, we know that Amnesty International reports in this way: from Benin to Russia and Vietnam and from Saudi Arabia to Tanzania and Turkey, freedom of expression is today under threat. The imprisonment of Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai is about freedom of expression – about the right to say to people what they don't want to hear. In the fight for freedom of expression, the Christian Democrats are in the front line. We do so together with the other parties in this House. We shall take advantage of this unity, Madam President, even in the work of prisoners of Swedish conscience. For this is what it is about: prisoners of conscience. We therefore welcome the committee initiative. We call on the government to set up as a matter of urgency the review commission for which, fortunately, there is now a majority here in Parliament. In doing so, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved in the UU7 report.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-603	Madam President, I would like The free word, freedom of expression, freedom of opinion-- yes, it can be called a lot. Whatever we choose to call it, it is a cornerstone of democracy and of individual freedom. Being able to express joy, hope, doubt and criticism of all of society's phenomena is what defines a free society in which we move forward together to create a better future. That everyone gets to speak and that we break arguments with each other usually gives better decisions. It is probably not possible to describe the importance of this in order to shape political decisions in a democratic process. It's absolutely crucial. Right now freedom of expression is being debated more than in a long time, and that is welcome. The right populists have waged war on the Internet for a long time against everyone with different opinions. Many are threatened with silence by trolls who want anything but to preserve the free word. We know that Trump on Twitter called for the storm of the Capitol, something that in any other context had obviously been described as an act of terror. Freedom of expression must also be available online, but the platforms cannot be used in any way. Now we must look with sober eyes at what is happening, at whether the laws are sufficient and how we are to deal with hate and threats that are at risk of undermining freedom of expression and democracy. Part of this freedom is also freedom of the press. In a world where there are many of us who feel that the debate is running fast and the facts are hidden behind populist play, the investigative journalist is not only more important than for a long time but absolutely crucial for a society to be able to call itself a democracy. Journalists' ability to freely review and report is part of that freedom, but also the public's right to knowledge and information. Examination of politicians and their work and political action is central to free and fair elections and to information. It is therefore essential for the validity and legitimacy of the whole democratic system. For a long time we in the Western world have been able to feel reasonably secure with both freedom of the press and freedom of expression, but that is no longer the case. Several countries here in Europe have made restrictions in recent years. Reporters without borders argue that freedom of the press in six EU countries has notable problems. One example is that the Polish ambassador in Sweden just the other day wanted to update a text about the right-wing nationalist government in Poland on a debate forum on democracy, which was written by environmentalist Magnus Runsten. They did not want the government to be called that, and that is in its rightful opinion. But the requirement for a text to be updated is an act that speaks entirely for itself. To want to adjust the language of the Swedish public debate to stifle criticism is anything but compatible with freedom of expression and only shows even more clearly which path you have gone. But the situation has also gradually deteriorated across the Atlantic. Since Trump came to power and declared war on the media, the tone and threats to journalists have been sharpened. Today, when Biden and Harris are sworn in, we hope to see many changes, not least the re-entry of the United States into the Paris Agreement, but we also hope to see a reversal of the negative development of freedom of the press, media and journalistic freedom of action. We must safeguard and develop freedom of expression in the world in order for us all to be safe in maintaining our democracies. There are so terrible many examples where it is not going in the right direction, or where you are fighting but simply not going forward. For almost six months we have been following the belarusian people's struggle for democracy, free elections and freedom of expression. Peaceful protests have relieved each other, and people who have been in the front line have been arrested by the regime in an attempt to silence the movement that exists. Opposition leaders have not only threatened with prison, but more than once they have made the threats a reality. M steam has been sent straight into long prison sentences. The crime? Nothing but to have said one's opinion, to want a change of power and to let the people decide the development and fate of the country. Madam President, I would like We know that free speech costs – for some far more than for others. It has cost a huge amount to all those who are imprisoned in spite of their human rights and their freedom of expression. It is a right that has obviously not been deemed to apply to them. Unfortunately, the list can be made too long. Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai, who are imprisoned for no crime other than having made their voices heard, must be released so that they can be reunited with their families. That work has been going on since the day they were captured and will continue until they are free. In order to do even more, a Commission and a review are now being set up to find out what has been done and what more might be done. But we should not only care about the Swedes who are in detention. Freedom of expression must also apply to political opposition. It is very serious that opposition politicians are being detained on arbitrary grounds around the world. The most recent and most noted is the Navalnyj case. What Russia has done to its own citizens in order to silence him is beyond everything and shows crystal clear that Russia lacks basic functions to be called democracy, namely a free political opposition and freedom of expression. Unfortunately, similar cases of murder, attempted murder and abduction are all too common. From South America we get calls for help after almost systematic persecution of climate activists and indigenous representatives who oppose the development of land grabbing, deforestation and the opposite of measures to reduce climate emissions. They are committed to democracy and much more. Mr President, I would like to Today is the long-awaited change of power in the White House. But, as the whole world has seen with its own eyes, it has certainly not been painless. The storming of the Capitol that we have seen was clear proof of how the freedom that was once won can be so easily taken away from us, how a democratically elected leader can act in a way that puts his own system in rocking and how the hands of a state apparatus can stand up to it. Now the institutions stood firm, and today is the day for a new start. Sweden's commitment to freedom of expression issues plays a role. This is done through our commitment to the work of the EU and the UN on human rights, but also through our support for civil society in countries where so much more needs to be done before opposition and freedom of the press and expression are harmless. Democracy is a fresh product that must be defended at every opportunity. A power-crazed man leaves today the White House, but too many remain as a constant reminder that the free word must never be taken for granted. That is why it is so important that our support for all those brave people who risk life and freedom should never fail. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-617	Mr President, I would like to As a journalist on leave, I think there is much in Janine Alm Ericson's speech that I agree with and value. It's about how she describes the rebellion in Washington, D.C. on 6 January, the riot against the Capitol, the situation in Belarus and the Navalnyj case in Russia. Democracy is really breaking opinions against each other, and we are doing so here in the Swedish Parliament. Democracy is also sometimes to come up with the same kind of views, as we do here in the Swedish Parliament through the Foreign Affairs Committee's report, in which, in total agreement, we all agree with this with a review commission on Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. Mr President, I would like to Now the report is rather short. I think there are five descriptive pages. We have been working on this issue in committee for a year. Therefore, some of the nuances and history are lost. Actually, I would have asked Kenneth G. Forslund my question, but he spoke before me. That is why I now put the question to Janine Alm Ericson on behalf of one of the government parties. I think it's important for history writing. How did the Green Party and the Social Democrats – the government – initially take the view of the proposal for a committee of inquiry presented by the Moderates in the Committee on Foreign Affairs? Then it was Gui Minhai. Then it has been expanded and built on, not least thanks to the work carried out by Lars Adaktusson, the Christian Democrats. But for the sake of history, I ask: How did the Social Democrats and the Green Party – the government – stand up to the idea of a Commission of Inquiry?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-622	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. First of all, I would like to stress that it is important that we do everything possible to ensure that these Swedish citizens who are sitting in an unjust position abroad are free. That is what I said in my main speech, and we fully agree on that. As I mentioned in my speech and as Mr Wallmark has also pointed out, this is a process in which arguments may need to be heard several times and broken. It also matters how one designs such a thing, and it should not, as it were, risk becoming bad rather than good. What we in the Green Party and, I believe, the Social Democrats were afraid of at the beginning of this process was precisely this. All of us who are now behind this have a common ambition that it must lead to positive effects for the cases of Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak and also for future cases, because unfortunately similar things can happen again before we have a completely free world. There were concerns that this proposal would not lead to what we all wanted. Now we think we have found a design that allows us all to support this. We believe that this can lead to better results without risking worsening the situation.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-625	Mr President, I would like to I am genuinely pleased that all eight parliamentary parties are behind this. We are now calling for a review commission to present its findings by 31 March 2022. However, I was and am amazed that, with the strong commitment of the Greens to freedom of expression, just as Janine Alm Ericson reflected in her speech, the Green Party did not overwhelm the moderate idea when we launched it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I think it'll also have to be loaded into the account that you're a government party. However, I would like to place a lower burden on the Green Party and Janine Alm Ericson and, to a greater extent, on the other government party for this. Mr President, I would like to As we now round off this debate and will decide on a Commission of Inquiry this afternoon, it is important for history to make it clear that behind the five pages' description of the matter is about twelve months' work. I will honestly say that it has not always been easy to deal with representatives of the governing parties, government representatives and representatives of the political leadership of the foreign administration. There has been opposition. I may not be able to say that it is thanks to the Green Party that we have come all the way, but I am pleased that the Green Party has supported this. Once again, I have to say that it is parties like the Left Party that have joined forces with the Moderates, and that is why we now have a unanimous committee report on the table of this House. That is why we have had this debate – once again I thank Janine Alm Ericson and the Environment Party for their contributions, because I think they were basically good – and now at the time. 16 may decide on a committee initiative for an audit commission.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-629	Mr President, I would like to I am also pleased that we have this. I very much hope that we will see the results of the review which will also make the work of getting these two men free go better than so far. I would also like to emphasise what Mr Kenneth Forslund said in his speech, namely that the responsibility for these two Swedish citizens being imprisoned does not rest on the Swedish Government, but on the governments of the countries which hold them unjustly imprisoned, and that is where we must put all the clutters from Sweden and from the European Union, just as we are doing now.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-631	Mr President, I would like to Like Mr Wallmark, I agree with much of what Janine Alm Ericson said in her speech. I think there is quite a broad consensus in this House on the importance of standing up for democracy and freedom of expression. Like Mr Wallmark, I also share Janine Alm Ericson's view that the storming of the Capitol was, to say the least, worrying. It is frightening that it can go so far, and it is terrible that you can incite a crowd as has been done. However, I do not fully share Janine Alm Ericson's view of the right to censor different opinions. I would therefore like to have a little clarification on this. How do Janine Alm Ericson and the Green Party view online giants' ability to restrict freedom of expression and people's freedom? We have seen both Swedish MPs and MEPs who have been arbitrarily censored by internet giants. Isn't that a problem?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-634	Mr President, I would like to Yes, and that is why I also said that I am pleased that we are beginning to debate these issues more in the general debate. We need to look at where these boundaries should go. Naturally, it is a problem about giants with large platforms where many people get space to come to terms shutting down accounts. However, we must also ensure that what is said there does not contribute to threats and hatred and call for acts of terrorism. When IS warriors called for armed struggle and had their accounts shut down, I did not hear the Swedish Democrats oppose. Only when a right-wing populist leader in one of the world's, thankfully still, democracies calls for the takeover of the democratic institution of the Capitol, do the Swedish Democrats raise their voice in order to safeguard freedom of expression on these platforms. I want us to have a good debate on this to see where the borders go. We shall have freedom of expression for as many as possible but without hatred, threats, intimidation and sedition that deprive others of their freedom of expression.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-637	Mr President, I would like to Of course, you shouldn't tolerate IS warriors calling for murder and other things, but that's a completely different thing. I am talking about the arbitrary closure of internet accounts. As I am sure Janine Alm Ericson knows, I personally am not a big fan of the outgoing president but, on the contrary, critical of his way of expressing himself. However, this does not justify the arbitrary closure of social media accounts, and we have seen how people who have never written anything that violates Swedish or other law have had their accounts shut down. People with a large number of followers who have been important to freedom of expression and free debate have their accounts shut down because they belong to a political force that internet giants do not like. This is a major problem. The British Government is currently making a proposal to ensure that internet giants operating social media do not arbitrarily censor these media. Is this something that Janine Alm Ericson thinks is positive? Can we expect her party to act for something like this in Sweden?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-641	Mr President, I would like to On this issue, I can only say that it is good that the issues are coming up and that we are looking at how we can develop freedom of expression online and otherwise. A strong freedom of expression is a guarantee of democracy. That this should be done by promoting rather than threatening, given the tone that often exists on these platforms, is very good. I am pleased that Markus Wiechel is against Trump and the way he has handled his Twitter account. Unfortunately, the same does not apply to his party leader, Jimmie Åkesson, who has instead expressed strong support for Trump and a desire for him to remain in the White House. I look forward to debating these issues much more, and I hope we agree that strong and good freedom of expression is the basis for moving forward.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-644	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the actions of various governments for almost two decades to achieve the release of Dawit Isaak, it is gratifying that the committee has taken a unanimous decision on the need for an independent evaluation, that is, a commission of inquiry, as many Members and parties have proposed in recent years in the so-called Dawit Isaak motions. Thanks to the momentum of civil society, especially Reporters Without Borders, Human Rights Lawyers, Journalists and the family of Dawit Isaak, the struggle for Dawit's release is constantly present in this House. Free media is a prerequisite for democratic dialogue in which both political and economic power are examined on a factual basis. Threats to journalists and restricted freedom of expression and freedom of the press are serious violations of human rights and democracy. I look with great concern at developments in many parts of the world and believe that clear action is needed on the part of Sweden. Sweden as an individual country and as a member of the EU and the UN will work to ensure that freedom of the press, free media and freedom of expression are protected around the world. Sweden, as a single country and as a member of the EU and the UN, is therefore committed to freedom of expression and press in Eritrea, Iran, Turkey and in many other countries where opposition parties and the fight for democracy and freedom of expression are punished with high sentences, death threats and torture. Mr President, I would like to Last week, the prosecutor decided not to proceed with the investigation into Eritrea's human rights violations. The fact that a prosecutor chooses not to investigate suspicions of crimes against humanity, one of the most serious international crimes, is hard to understand. Her argument for not doing it doesn't hold up. On the other hand, the prosecutor claims that there's no way to investigate because Eritrea won't cooperate and she can't go there. Shouldn't you investigate crimes where the suspect doesn't want to cooperate? Should a dictatorship be rewarded for being dictatorial? On the one hand, it ignores all the evidence of a number of prominent human rights lawyers, Nobel laureates and others who can testify to what happened in 2001 and who have shared a cell with Dawit Isaak or have been imprisoned in a similar way. The UN Commission of Inquiry on Eritrea submitted its final report in 2016. During the work, they collected evidence for future criminal investigations, and the evidence is collected in Geneva. It has never been published, but the prosecutor could request it. The prosecutor also does not want to interfere with the Swedish relationship with Eritrea for the purpose of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and therefore does not start a preliminary investigation. That argument was weak already in 2015 – 2016 when the Prosecutor General said no to previous complaints. These arguments do not hold up after almost 20 years of unsuccessful negotiations and attempts at quiet diplomacy. This concerns a type of international crime that all countries have an obligation to fight and prosecute. Sweden has a special responsibility here because it concerns the Swedish citizen Dawit Isaak. The seriousness of the issue for lawyers is evident when one sees all the prominent human rights lawyers behind the complaint: the Nobel Peace Prize winner, the former ICC judge and UN Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay, the former President of the African Commission for Human Rights and Peoples' Rights Pansy Tlakula and the former Minister of Justice of Canada Irwin Cotler, to name a few. Personally, I find it embarrassing for Sweden, which claims to stand up for human rights, to choose to look in another direction when one's citizens are exposed to an international crime. This applies not only to Dawit Isaak but also to other Swedish citizens, such as Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab, who are in Iranian prison with death sentences hanging over them. The prosecutor also explains that crimes of this kind could be investigated by Swedish authorities. Just not now. Just not just this. What the prosecutor decided at all was that neither the parliament nor the government should interfere with it. However, it seems to have played a decisive role for the Prosecutor's Office what the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has said. After talking to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the Prosecutor General chose not to start preliminary investigations because it was thought that it could harm the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' work for Dawit Isaak's release. Formally, the Prosecutor General has first made the decision himself, but one might wonder what the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has said to get him there. Without examining the decision of the Prosecution Authority itself, it can be noted that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' need to continue its silent diplomacy has affected the judiciary not to investigate a suspected crime of international dimensions, not one but now three times. The independence of the judiciary is at the heart of the Swedish rule of law. The question is what signal has been given by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to influence these grounds. Quite apart from this, a Commission is necessary after almost two decades of fruitless negotiations, as Dawit and his colleagues have in the meantime become the most incarcerated journalists. The attacks on Gui Minhai, Ahmadreza, Chaab and others mentioned in our motion show that this is not an isolated case. Sweden must equip itself. And above all, after all these years, Dawit deserves to be examined. It must not be handled in closed rooms. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs is good at many things, but the people we appoint in Parliament can see completely different possibilities and find new angles and new methods. This deserves Dawit, Gui Minhai, Ahmadreza and others. For Raoul Wallenberg, it took over 50 years before a Commission was set up. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, there are many dictatorship regimes in the world that commit daily violations of human rights and freedom of the press and of expression. Half of the world's population lacks these fundamental rights. Iran is one of the repressive governments and dictatorships that jail, kill and execute people on a daily basis, for example, because of an Instagram or Facebook post. We have the well-known case of Ahmadreza, who is a doctor of emergency medicine and who, during a journey, was arrested on extremely loose grounds and sentenced to death by the Islamic regime. The human rights activist and Swedish citizen Habib Chaab have also been handed over by the Turkish authorities to the executioners in Iran. He fought for the rights of the discriminated Arab minority in Iran. In Eritrea, Iran, Turkey and several countries, thousands of prisoners of conscience, journalists and former politicians are imprisoned without prosecution against them. They do not have the opportunity to see a lawyer or their relatives. Sweden should therefore work, both as an individual country and as a member of the UN and the EU, for the release of political prisoners in Eritrea, Iran and Turkey and others. Finally, I would also like to mention that Selahattin Demirtaş, one of the representatives of the pro-Kurdian party HDP in Turkey, and 5 000 other elected politicians and prominent members of HDP are detained and their seats are taken over by the appointed representatives of the Turkish regime. Mr President, I would like to In the case of Selahattin Demirtaş v Turkey before the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey has been convicted, inter alia, of having violated the right to release Selahattin Demirtaş without delay. I believe that Sweden must act vigorously to get Selahattin Demirtaş released in accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The government should demand the release of Dawit Isaak, Ahmadreza Djalali, Habib Chaab, Selahattin Demirtaş and all other prisoners of conscience and journalists throughout the world.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-666	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Transport Committee's report 5 on certificates of professional competence. For about ten years now, in addition to driving licences, a special licence has been required for the carriage of passengers and goods by bus or lorry, a so-called certificate of professional competence. The certificates of professional competence are renewed every five years in the form of specific training and examinations. During the pandemic, thousands of drivers have not been able to renew their evidence, and they run the risk of losing the opportunity to continue driving professionally. In December of last year alone, 2 500 certificates expired, and this year more than 100 000 certificates of professional competence are expected to expire, which will have to be renewed. The situation is acute for all drivers, hauliers and training coordinators in our country. We in the Left Party therefore welcome the fact that the government has now put forward a proposal to extend the validity of the current certificate of professional competence. That is very good, although we would have liked the government to have acted sooner than it did. It is also good that the government is now proposing to facilitate digital education in the future. We don't know how long the pandemic will last. However, one shortcoming of the government's proposal is that the extension of professional qualifications only runs until 31 July of this year. The risk is obvious that by summer we are still in a pandemic and that we have therefore only put the problem in front of us for six months. We in the Left Party have therefore exercised to give both drivers and trainers more time to catch up with the trainings by giving the government the opportunity to extend the driving licence year out. Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that several parties raise the same issue, about the importance of a longer respite for the certificates of competence. Therefore, I and the Left Party are very pleased that a majority in the parliamentary Transport Committee is now demanding from the government that it urgently ensure that the validity of professional qualifications can be extended throughout 2021. We also agree that the Government should urgently handle applications to carry out activities as training coordinators. In this way, we ensure that 100 000 professional drivers do not end up on the edge of the pot and that companies and others can continue to operate. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal of the Committee on Transport and Tourism in its report TU5.
i-GCFNDXmtHckQyzahZiDtRA	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU5, the extension of the term of validity of certificates of professional competence, on the basis of the Government proposal. I would like to start by saying that it is gratifying that the government proposal is broadly supported by the whole committee. Almost a year has passed since the first people started to fall ill in covid-19 in Sweden. We are still in a very serious situation, and our entire society has had to change and contribute to reduced spread of infection – all to save lives and health. Last summer, we debated in this House the same issue of certificates of professional competence. An extension has subsequently taken place, and we got the so-called omnibus regulation in place. But no one knew then how serious the corona situation would still be today. The Eneroth Government has constantly stressed during the pandemic that we will have to come back if the measures we have taken are not enough to stop the spread of the disease and facilitate the industry. That is why we are now debating this issue again. It is absolutely necessary in the situation caused by covid-19 to ensure that measures are taken to reduce the spread of the virus while maintaining societal functions. A vital function of society is precisely our transport. Mr President, I would like to The background to the matter is that drivers must have a certificate of professional competence in order to carry out passenger and freight transport. This is one way of ensuring that drivers who carry out transport have the necessary initial skills and training. It is about knowledge about safety regulations, optimisation of fuel consumption, transport logistics and more. A certificate of professional competence is valid for five years. Thereafter, it shall be continuously updated by continuing training for a renewed period of validity. What the bill is about is that we are in fact temporarily withdrawing from the five-year rule, so that people do not have to meet to the same extent as they would otherwise have had to do in connection with an education. It is therefore an extension of the period of validity, and the proposal is proposed to enter into force on 1 February and apply until 1 August. Although not all parties believe that this issue should be coordinated in the EU, it is essentially an issue that needs to be dealt with and regulated in the EU. The provisions on the professional competence of drivers of the carriage of passengers or goods are based on the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the initial qualification and training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers, which has also been implemented by the Act on Professional Driver Competences but also by the relevant Regulation. It is therefore very regrettable that the EU has not been able to deal with this situation more quickly. It has contributed to uncertainty in the industry and the risk for individual drivers not being legally able to drive the truck. The government has made it clear that we must ensure that transport can continue to roll, while at the same time we do not risk increased spread of infection for our drivers because they have to sit in tight training rooms. The government has therefore repeatedly pressed the EU for a rapid extension of the previous decision. This was also clearly stated by the Minister for Infrastructure when he visited the Transport Committee. However, given the delay in receiving information, it was considered that, despite the fact that a solution at EU level is preferable, it would eventually be possible to make its own proposal. Mr President, I would like to Let me say something, in particular, on the grounds of the reservations that we from the Social Democrats support. I would like to emphasise once again that it is good that we in the committee generally agree that the rules surrounding the YKB must be dealt with quickly and flexibly, all in order to make it easier for the industry. However, I find it remarkable how, in dealing with this issue, the proposals of the majority of committees do not take sufficient account of the reality we have to deal with without being more interested in being able to act without knowing exactly what the consequences are. The legal framework proposed in the bill is valid until August. I would like to stress that the majority of the committee's proposal for a year-end exemption risks creating a tough situation for the remaining training actors that exist and continue to be based on an already high level of education debt. This is also confirmed in the referrals received and must be taken very seriously. Several parties refer to the importance of working with the debt of education but nevertheless advocate an alternative which does exactly the opposite. By already making such a long extension as the majority favours, we are simply putting the problem before us. The accumulation of educational needs may also have a significant negative impact on some schools and trainers by temporarily shifting or reducing revenues and thus increasing the risk of the closure of smaller schools for economic reasons. At the same time, we should remember that a very large part of those who needed to complete their education in 2020 did so despite the coronapndemine. Mr President, I would like to We want to find a sustainable solution that creates the conditions both for the individual driver to do his/her job and for Transport and Education Sweden to manage the YKB trainings. They shall be able to receive and carry out the activities. The bill has just this balance. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight the issue of distance learning. We know that the necessary measures to limit the spread of infection cause difficulties in carrying out the training required by the rules on certificates of professional competence. This may lead to a lack of access to the necessary training. Therefore, it is so important that the government highlights the possibility of extending distance training, as this may mean that drivers can complete their course from home and do not need to meet in groups. This is particularly important during this difficult time. Of course, we must, and will, follow the possibilities of digitalisation and distance learning in order to urgently, but also in the long term, strengthen work on education and training. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that we Social Democrats have always been critical of the fact that the European Commission has not already given notice of an extension of the omnibus package in the past. This should have been done by the European Commission in a situation where there was a significant increase in the level of infection in Europe. Only now on Monday afternoon did we get the news that the Commission has finally made a proposal which provides for the retroactive validity of derogations from 1 September. However, we must come back to this proposal. I note that the government, led by the Minister for Infrastructure, has done everything it could to prioritise the industry and to find solutions at both European and national level, while at the same time pressing in the EU and preparing a national comprehensive solution that meets the balance I described earlier. We Social Democrats are, of course, behind the whole bill and our reservations. But for time winning, I request consent to reservation 3 only.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-691	Mr President, I would like to We are going to discuss the Transport Committee's report 5, whose term of validity is extended for certificates of professional competence. First of all, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats are in favour of the proposal in the report and our reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to The government has been more than justly slow in dealing with the YKB issue during the pandemic, and the government also wanted to wait for a response from the EU. Already when the so-called omnibus package was adopted last year, the Swedish Democrats pointed out that the really big problem would arise in spring and summer 2021. Now we are in the midst of the situation that we warned against. Already in 2008, the foundation was laid for the situation that the country's professional drivers have now ended up in. The transition period was five years plus/ minus two years. Sweden chose five years plus two years, i.e. a transition period of seven years, while several other countries chose a shorter transitional period and thus are not in the same situation as Sweden. The problem stems from vested rights and the large group of drivers, to whom I myself belong, who obtained their heavy powers before the regulations were introduced. The group of drivers who got their heavy privileges before YKB came into effect has now ended up in a situation where the pandemic has limited the opportunity to attend the necessary courses. These are the drivers who now have to undergo at least seven hours of refresher training. In some cases, more modules may need to be implemented. It is clear that the government does not realise the enormous training effort required to pilot 105 000 drivers through this system, where it must be documented and reported who participated in a module. Before each course, participants must be identified. The certificate and record keeping of each training coordinator requires, in addition to the training period itself, a rigorous administration in order for the driver to subsequently obtain his certificate of professional competence. It is therefore not only about the course time itself, but also about extensive administrative work. Mr President, I would like to The widespread spread of infection in society naturally affects both educators and hauliers, and this may make an already strained situation difficult. In a worst-case scenario, important transports become permanent because drivers have not been able to complete their YKB training in time. There is an imminent risk that deliveries to shops, ordered packages, vaccines etc. will not be possible if a large number of drivers are unable to undergo the necessary training. The committee considers that the whole of 2021 should be subject to extended validity as well as exemptions, so that both trainers and hauliers have a reasonable chance to clarify the situation that has arisen. To use a now well-known expression: It is important to flatten the curve. A majority of the committee's parties have understood the seriousness and send a clear signal to the government that the government's proposals are insufficient to ensure the transport of goods that is so important to the country. The government's handling shows an inability to understand the reality of hauliers, drivers and trainers. The government parties, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, have reservations about the committee's decision. Mr President, I would like to I myself have been active in the haulage industry for many years before I became a member of the Swedish Democrats in 2018. Since the introduction of the regulations in 2008, I have trained thousands of drivers in YKB. I have personal experience of the work required to carry out a YKB training that complies with the regulations. It requires considerable resources to pilot 105 000 drivers through a Corona-adapted training activity, although it is now open to the possibility of carrying out all sub-courses digitally throughout the year. According to the latest statistics I have received from the Swedish Transport Agency, only 64 of 330 training coordinators are registered to carry out YKB training at a distance. It is likely that more and more trainers will report distance training to the Swedish Transport Agency during the spring, but it is still an extensive activity to be carried out before all drivers are approved and thus hold a valid YKB. Mr President, I would like to This is what some say about the problem faced by the country's hauliers and drivers. As usual, the government's actions are far too small and are far too late. There are many of us who have pointed out the need for action for a long time. The Transport Committee has now put its foot down and created a prerequisite for trainers, hauliers and drivers to plan training courses this year so that no one risks being parked because of an invalid YKB certificate. The Transport Committee has created the conditions for a reasonable management of the high level of training needs. It is now up to trainers, riders and drivers to also get a roll on the training activities during 2021.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-702	Mr President, I would like to The Coronapandemia has crippled a whole world, and 2020 will be a year we'll be late to forget. The pandemic has also meant that we have not been able to live as before and that we have had to change. In difficult times, however, it is important that we maintain transports to and from Sweden. The Centre Party was very early during the pandemic to draw attention to the YKB issue, and I have personally – as I am sure several other Members – been in contact with several hauliers and bus companies on this important issue. For professional drivers, the issue of professional driving licences, YKB, has been important to solve in order for drivers to continue driving, to maintain the flow of goods and to enable public transport to continue rolling. Dispenses have been important when training programmes have not been completed as before. It is important that the individual driver does not get caught but can continue to do his work. The individual driver must not become black-peckers, but the authorities and government must be on their toes in this matter. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the bill that is now before Parliament and which we are debating today, we in the Center Party are very pleased to have heard, above all, about increased distance learning and that it should be given more space, as well as that the handling by the Swedish Transport Agency to issue evidence for the trainers of the YKB must take place urgently so that the training can roll on at a rapid and effective pace. This is important for the drivers, once again, not to get caught. I don't want the bureaucracy running. Mr President, I would like to On the question of whether the exemption should apply for six months or twelve months, we share the government's assessment that it should be six months. It is a question of not building up an excessive education debt in the long term. The six-month proposal is also fully in line with the EU omnibus package. However, we believe that the reason why the bill is currently on Parliament's table is that the Transport Committee has acted on the matter. The government had been able to present this bill much earlier, which would have made it easier for the drivers. You shouldn't have to go and worry about your YKB. We also believe that it is important that the proposal we are debating today is put in place. We regard it as extremely important that the government should continue to be on its toes during the year and monitor this, regardless of what time the exemption will apply. From the Center Party we also believe that the government must be more on its toes if changes need to be made during the year and if other updates need to be made. The government needs to come to the committee in better time than it has in relation to this bill. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party are very happy that we have heard about this with distance training and processing times at the Swedish Transport Agency in the bill. By way of conclusion, I support reservation 1.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-709	Mr President, I would like to First, I have a little reflection. I had the privilege of serving in Parliament from 98 to 02, and it was an exciting time. Göran Persson was Prime Minister, and this chamber served mostly as a printing company. At that time it was a stable government, as some put it. I must admit that it is considerably more fun to come back after 20 years and be a Member of Parliament in a less stable situation. We are going to debate three different subjects today, and on these three different subjects we have reached four announcements in committee. This shows that the Riksdag as an institution right now is actually slightly stronger than 98 – 02. It may sometimes be worth recalling: After all, this is where the elected representatives sit. It is we who make the decisions, and it is we who send the signals. I am pleased to hear that. We have an exciting case today, namely TU5 which deals with vocational qualifications. Whether we are in the midst of a pandemic or not, we are dependent on functioning transport and public transport. It is therefore unfortunate that truck and bus drivers have problems renewing their professional qualifications. We in the Christian Democrats have therefore pointed out on several occasions that the government should urgently return to Parliament with a new exception. The government has kept us informed of the negotiations that are taking place within the EU, and it has now also submitted a bill to Parliament. Mr President, I would like to We think it is a good thing that the government comes to Parliament with a proposal to extend the period of validity of certificates of professional competence. At the same time, we believe that it is not enough for the new rules to apply until 1 August 2021. Instead, we believe that the new temporary law should apply throughout 2021. Unfortunately, there is a risk that the pandemic will continue in the next autumn. Then it is better that we have a clear regulatory framework throughout 2021, which makes it easier for our traffic leaders, hauliers and drivers. We are aware that the extension of the exemption may lead to many drivers who, at a later date, need to renew their certificate of professional competence. To counteract this, we need to facilitate distance learning and speed up the licensing of those who work as training providers. Mr President, I would like to We have therefore chosen to support the following three announcements: The Government should urgently ensure that an option is introduced to extend the validity of certificates of professional competence and the exemption from the requirement for certificates of professional competence for those whose certificates of professional competence have expired during the period from 1 November 2020 to 31 January 2021. The government should take measures to increase distance learning opportunities. The Government should work towards swift handling of applications to carry out activities as training providers. We think these three proposals are good, and we are pleased that this relatively broad agreement has been reached in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. Mr President, I would like to This is a relatively short report on a matter in which we agree in principle. However, there are problems when the government comes forward with too short an exception, and then there is no time to make a new exception before the first one has expired. It is, among other things, because of this slowness that we propose that an exemption from the requirement for a certificate of professional competence should cover those who have obtained a certificate of professional competence whose validity has expired from 1 September 2020 to 31 January 2021. We simply believe that the various exceptions should be linked. It is probably not about a large number of truck and bus drivers, but it is strange that not everyone affected during this time is covered by the exception that we are going to discuss today. Here, too, I would like to make a small digression. The period 1998 – 2002 I was on the Transport Committee and was responsible for air transport. I think most people know about the Nine eleven, when the whole Western world suffered a terrible act of terror that shut down the whole flight. Among other things, what happened at the time was the need to insure aircraft. The then government, with Björn Rosengren and the Super Ministry, came to the Transport Committee with a document with Danish documents. Note this – you came with Danish documents, because you didn't have time to produce your own texts. And then four times in a row, if I remember correctly-- it could have been three times. However, each time they returned too late, and there was a gap between the different times. That is why we Christian Democrats, with great respect for the views of the Social Democracy and the Green Party, claim that we should go for a whole year. We're not gonna end up in these glitches where you come back and you come back. Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of the proposal in the report and of the three proposals for notices which have been drafted in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. We also call for our own reservation 2.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-723	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the extension of the validity of certificates of professional competence. The training of drivers is governed by European legislation. Truck drivers in Sweden must renew their certificate of professional competence every five years by completing 35 hours of training in order to practise their profession. The Swedish Transport Agency estimates that approximately 105 000 certificates of professional competence need to be renewed in 2021, with a peak between March and September. The current pandemic has hit many activities hard, especially in the field of transport. At the same time, it is important that professional transport can continue normally, as it has a social role to play. However, a lack of training opportunities means that we risk aggravating the large shortage of drivers. Restrictions due to covid-19 have reduced the possibility of physical on-site training, and according to the regulations, only 12 of the 35 hours of the training can be used to carry out the training at a distance. Due to the difficulties in providing training, the Liberals have pushed to speed up the temporary extension of the current professional qualifications and exemption for drivers whose qualifications have expired without the possibility of renewal due to cancellation of training or a significant reduction in the supply of training. The drivers would otherwise have had to refrain from driving a truck, which would hit the business hard, especially for the many few companies in the industry. Liberals consider that the six-month extension of professional qualifications is a reasonable time to complete the required training. At the same time, account should be taken of the fact that education and training companies are given sufficient resources to survive and thus not make future training opportunities more difficult. That is why we do not support the majority proposal, which provides for the possibility of postponing training throughout 2021. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved. The restrictions on physical gatherings came into force in November. It is reasonable that those whose certificate of professional competence expired in November should be granted an exemption retroactively from November. However, it is far from an ideal situation; this legislation should have been put forward in connection with the restrictions so as not to put drivers in a difficult situation. Now it happened after the matter had begun to be discussed in committee. Finally, Mr President, it is gratifying that the two requests that we in the Liberals put forward together with the Center Party to review the possibilities for a larger part of the training to take place digitally and for the Transport Agency to handle permits for education providers have been urgently supported and announced to the government. The Liberals hope that we will now see the end of the restrictions due to covid-19 and that the pandemic will disappear by summer and that we can thus see a customary range of training courses in the latter part of 2021 and then can return to a normal procedure when it comes to vocational qualifications.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-731	Mr President, I would like to This pandemic affects society as a whole and results in consequences both for individuals and for businesses. The government has been working since early last year to limit the spread of infection, ensure resources for health care, limit the impact on socially important activities, mitigate consequences for citizens and businesses, mitigate anxiety and put in place the right measures at the right time. In order to be able to carry out passenger transport and freight transport by bus and lorry, professional certificates of competence are required, as we have heard earlier in the debate. This evidence shows that the driver has completed training and keeps his skills up to date through further training. Driving a truck or bus is a responsible job, which is why it has been agreed within the EU that professional drivers need to have this documentation of their skills. As transport is often cross-border, rules are laid down for transport at EU level. Unfortunately, the pandemic has weakened the ability to carry out the training and further training necessary for the driver to retain his certificate of professional competence. For this reason, the Government presented a proposal in spring 2020, which meant that the Government had until December 2020 to provide for an extension of the period of validity of the certificate of professional competence and for an exemption from the requirement for a certificate of professional competence. The EU also took steps to ensure the possibility of renewing certificates of professional competence. The so-called Omnibus Regulation, which entered into force on 25 May 2020, gave drivers who were to undergo further training to renew their certificate of professional competence between 1 February 2020 and 31 August 2020 an extended period for carrying out such further training while extending the validity of the certificate by seven months from the date indicated as the last day of the certificate. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, most professional drivers completed their training on time despite the possibility of extension. We can therefore conclude that it was still possible for many people to carry out their training in spite of the pandemic, which has been good for those who have been able to do so. The Pandemin has continued with renewed vigour during the autumn. Measures are therefore necessary to extend the derogation from the requirement for further training again. As the EU has not resolved the issue in time, the government is now presenting this proposal. We would like to emphasise that this area is mainly regulated by the European Union and that it is therefore important to limit the time covered by the derogation. There are also practical reasons for limiting this possibility for exemption, because we do not want it to build up an educational debt that will be difficult to obtain. It is important that we deal with the problems caused by the pandemic for professional drivers who are to renew their professional qualifications. For a single driver and for individual companies, it is extremely important to have the opportunity to continue driving and thus collect an income. At the same time, we must not, in our eagerness, help create problems that will be difficult to address later on. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 and reservation 3. As my colleague Elin Gustafsson said, we will be able to come back to the Commission's proposal to extend the omnibus regulation when it comes to it.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-739	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is, as colleagues have said, about the report TU5 on the extension of the validity of certificates of professional competence. It may seem to many to be a completely immaterial question to spend so much time on the middle of a burning pandemic in Sweden. And it may seem petty to argue about small things in politics such as the time of validity of professional certificates of competence. But, Mr President, it is not a small question. And it is not a question that only concerns a small group of professionals. The outcome of this debate and the decision that we are going to take in this House a little later will affect us all. It concerns all companies in the country that must be able to obtain their goods and be able to deliver their goods. If this does not work, we have neither food nor other supplies in our business. Basically, this issue is also about road safety and the possibility of securing medical supplies to the whole of Sweden during the ongoing pandemic. During this pandemic, most Swedes have suffered very hard and struggled with their loneliness. We have stayed at home, we have bought goods online, we have bunkered goods and we have relied on those Christmas cards that have been a little extra longed for just this year. But it is not Santa and his elves who drive the goods back and forth. No, it's truckers and professional drivers who are the heroes of this. It is the drivers who have ensured that Sweden has continued to function, and it is for their safety and for all of us who are in traffic that this report is important. Mr President, I would like to We have heard speakers here in the speaker's chair explain what evidence of professional competence is. I'll call it YKB in the future. It is true that it is like an additional driving licence for driving heavy goods vehicles on the road. This is a demand that we have not only here in Sweden but throughout the European Union. During the pandemic, it was quickly realised that many drivers would not be able to take their tests to have their existing YKB extended, i.e. a requirement for driving their vehicle legally. An initiative was then taken to extend the YKB by six months. That's good, even though we probably thought you could have extended a little more at once. Now, Mr President, we know that the pandemic is not over and that a new extension of the YKB is needed. This time it is also those who had an extension last autumn and those who will need it now. In order not to repeat the mistake we made last spring, we now want to extend not six months but until the end of 2021, which is a more reasonable and realistic proposal than the government proposal in six months' time. Time and again we have heard the Prime Minister comment on how he did not see the consequences of the pandemic coming or that he was not prepared for one and the other. Let's help him, and we'll help the government a little. We make the extension of the YKB extend throughout 2021, so that we do not have to be unprepared, at least not on this issue. In the autumn of 2020 we also realised that the web-based training courses that could have solved YKB trainings and exams did not work properly. That is why we are now putting a sharp proposal to the government, in which we simply say that the government must provide opportunities for distance learning. If distance learning had worked, we would not have had to have this debate today. In addition, distance learning enables more people to complete the training and take their tests wherever they live. It could be called a rural venture. Right now we're building a hump of drivers who need to renew their YKB, and the hump needs to be grazed down. In order to keep pace with what the training coordinators can do, we must not forget all other drivers who, after this year, are also going to extend their YKB, not to mention completely new drivers who need YKB in the future. To solve this, we want the government to work swiftly to handle applications from more people who can carry out an activity as a training coordinator. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of the proposal contained in the report TU5 in its entirety and rejecting the reservations received.
i-D55hjhzLu3Vni83pHfHUb9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for an important speech. What Åsa Coenraads says sounds very good in theory, and we are largely in agreement when it comes to ending the bill. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight what I mentioned in my speech earlier, and which is precisely about what I mean sounds very good in theory. Åsa Coenraads refers to the fact that it is important that we should already consider long-termness and make it easier for the drivers. But what the Moderates and the majority of committees are actually doing is not making it easier in practice. As has been said, extending as long as the majority of committees proposes sounds good in theory, but we know that it only continues to be based on the education debt rather than on the one to which the Moderates repeatedly refer. Moreover, it is important to have coordination in Europe on this issue, and I have not heard that the Moderates have now returned to this. However, as far as I know, the Moderates still believe that European coordination is important, particularly in this area. I would like clarification from Åsa Coenraads on how the Moderates view EU coordination on these issues. Do you still think it's important? Then I would also like to have a clarification on how to deal with the growing educational debt, on which you, with your proposal, are not beginning to graze and continue to build.
i-96aH3374yeHswrqJaPRu9N	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elin Gustafsson, for the questions! As I said, this issue is important to discuss, because it concerns all of us. However, I do not really understand what Elin Gustafsson means by the questions she asks. On the basis of our proposals here today, we are grazing on the hump that has been built up by the current government, because the issue has not been addressed from the outset. If you'd done the right thing in the first place, we wouldn't have a hump. Then how are we going to graze the hump? Well, we are proposing two things that are very concrete: firstly, to make distance learning work and, secondly, to ensure that there are more training coordinators in place that can actually train more people for YKB. I can address a question back to the representative of the Social Democrats, Elin Gustafsson, who still has the power to make changes through the government. Why have they been so careless in their work that we need to stand here today and take this issue over again? We don't want to be back in six months because the government has been sloppy again. But it may be that the government is sitting on information that the pandemic will be over faster than the rest of us think.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-757	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit sad that Åsa Coenraads claims that the government is careless and slow. The Moderates often say that the government is not doing enough and that it is progressing too slowly. It is clear that the opposition should remain on the sidelines at all times. But in this case, it's not true. The Minister for Infrastructure has, at the meetings of the Transport Committee he has attended, been clear about the work being done, not least in relation to the EU. We know that European coordination on these issues is preferable. I do not understand that Åsa Coenraads answered the question I asked about the importance of EU coordination in a single word. Have the Moderates completely departed from it? Because it seems so. At least that has been done during this process. No one, neither the Moderates nor the Social Democrats as far as I know, knows what the continuation of the pandemic will be. We must, of course, continue with the balance, as I mentioned in my speech, between passing training and at the same time reducing the spread of infection. I would also like to point out, as is also highlighted in the referral to the bill, that the proposal which the majority of the committee advocates does not in practice do what Åsa Coenraads says. In fact, it risks building heavily on education debt rather than on it. In the case of distance training, and so on, it is included in the bill. The Government has also returned to this. I think it is the Moderates who need to give more answers to the questions I asked. I didn't get any answers.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-763	Mr President, I would like to The reason why we are here today discussing the YKB extension is a bill that the government has left. But we still need to keep a little more in mind what has happened back in time. The reason why there has been a bill is that we in the opposition pushed for an extension of the YKBs to come before Christmas. It's still not that long ago. The opposition has once again forced the government into the course. You have been careless, you have not been prepared and you have not calculated that this would happen. If it had been done, we would not have had to stand here today. We are also now, in 2021, already on our fourth amending budget, because the government has been careless in ensuring that it works properly for people, businesses and trade in this country.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-767	Mr President, I would like to The report we are now debating relates a little to the previous debate. It is about commercial traffic, that is, truck traffic and the taxi industry. These are sectors that are important parts of the Swedish transport industry. They ensure, among other things, that goods arrive on time and that people who for various reasons cannot or do not want to drive or travel collectively can move. The pandemic has affected both industries over the past year, albeit to varying degrees. As far as freight transport is concerned, border crossings initially became problematic and some protectionism spread across Europe. But it worked out through cooperation within the EU. The taxi industry is a completely different matter. A majority of their driving has been lost in 2020 and the crisis persists. From the taxi industry there are complaints that the aid offered is too small, too late and is far too complicated to seek. It is serious and risks that, when the pandemic rings off, we will not have a large enough taxi industry left to meet the requirements that exist. Mr President, I would like to There is political agreement that there should be fair conditions in the haulage industry. But the fact that we agree and talk about it is not enough. Action is also needed. Although there is a 2012 parliamentary inquiry into what needs to be done to eliminate illegal competition in the haulage industry, this government has chosen to do no more than identify the problems. But to really get to them, action is required. On our roads traffic police officers are still missing who can manage to stop illegal commercial traffic. The government has done nothing about this, despite the fact that the haulage industry has identified it as one of the biggest problems. Nor has the government appointed the competitiveness inquiry that the Transport Committee and the Riksdag have asked the Government to do through an announcement. On 19 April 2017, the Swedish Parliament made a decision on an announcement to the Government regarding the appointment of an investigation to urgently strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. The aim was to review taxes, levies and rules and then to be able to remedy them and strengthen the Swedish haulage industry. The Government has not even set up this inquiry yet and has therefore not carried out what the Riksdag has decided on. Beautiful words hardly lead to a better situation for Sweden's hauliers. They can't pay their bills with those beautiful words. Action is required. When's the investigation coming? It is almost four years since the decision was taken here in Parliament. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates, in addition to the proposals in our budget, have proposed a reduction of the fuel tax by SEK 1 which would correspond to approximately SEK 100 000 in lower taxes for a Swedish truck per year, for hauliers who drive 20,000 miles per year. We will also have this reduction among the highest fuel taxes in the world, and it is still a clear incentive for the industry to change. It is impressive to see all the work that is being done in the industry in terms of conversion. An important prerequisite for this transition is that there are enough charging stations and also enough renewable electricity to be able to charge the electric vehicles. We have not come very far if electric cars will be charged with electricity coming from coal power plants in other countries. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, the Committee on Transport has pointed out that we want to review the possibilities of driving and rest times and try to give Swedish haulage companies the same regulatory framework that exists in Denmark. There, a minor violation of about 5% of driving and rest times is allowed, as drivers and hauliers are not always able to plan what happens along the way. It is unreasonable to have to go on a fine for having to run over with maybe half an hour to make it home in the evening. Denmark has this opportunity, and both Denmark and Sweden have to comply with the same regulations as the rest of the EU. But Sweden's haulage companies do not have the same opportunities as the Danish haulage companies when it comes to driving and resting times. In addition, Sweden needs to review the possibility of granting exemptions for driving and rest times for smaller and short journeys, which would be entirely reasonable. Will the government address this competition problem with driving and rest periods? If we are to ensure equal conditions for Swedish and foreign hauliers, we also need better controls. We Moderates have long demanded better supervision of foreign trucks in Sweden. We want a GPS activated in the foreign trucks to ensure that they pay their congestion charges, the euro and any fines. In addition, we will be able to follow them more easily if they comply with the rules on cabotage and combined transport. Despite the fact that the government would tackle this problem too, nothing has yet happened. For professional traffic to work, it is also necessary to be able to park your vehicles safely and take breaks when it is time for a daily rest period. And it's supposed to happen in a safe place. The industry has developed a material on where new rest areas should be located and who needs to be expanded. Trafikverket is working on an analysis of the rest areas. But the pace of work is low, and work is far too slow. There are several private and local solutions at scaffolding sites. But there is no coordination at state level. Trafikanalys concludes that demand for parking places is high and that the supply of safe and secure parking places in Sweden today does not match demand at all. Truck drivers are a vulnerable group that feels a lot of insecurity. Traffic analysis has carried out studies showing that a large number of drivers experience insecurity and are reported to have been exposed to crime, and the number of darkness can be large. According to Traffic Analysis, crime exposure is a clear indicator of the need for safe and secure rest areas. Sweden's trucks are necessary to keep the country's companies going, and they are a bloodstream in Swedish industry. It is therefore reasonable that Swedish hauliers have reasonable levels of taxes and charges and are not disadvantaged in the competition of foreign transport. The Swedish Government and the Police Authority are responsible for managing the controls along our roads so that illegal transport cannot compete for legal transport. Mr President, I would like to In June 2014, the Parliament decided on new rules for the taxi industry. It was about removing the possibility of granting taxametre exemptions. The Parliament also decided later, in May 2018, that there should be another type of taxi industry that should join a licensed ordering centre for taxi services. These vehicles shall then be fitted with a special equipment for taxi vehicles. This was aimed at cleaning up the various platform solutions available and ensuring fair and equal conditions regardless of the type of taxi. This removed the possibility of applying for exemption from the taxametre requirement. In the bill there was a lot about affirming new technology and digitalisation. Nevertheless, no specific equipment is currently available on the market. This means that anyone who wants to drive a taxi is referred to a taximeter regardless of what activity it is. This affects not least the rental industry, for example, which runs on behalf of invoice. We in the Moderates want to affirm the collaborative economy and new types of passenger transport. New legislation is needed and it needs to be followed up. We wonder what the government intends to do about the special equipment. At present, there are no such solutions at all. We support all our reservations, but I choose to agree only to reservation n number 17.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-787	Mr President, I would like to We are now discussing the Committee on Transport's report on Professional Transport and Taxi. We in the Swedish Democrats are, of course, behind all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to Over the past year, the conditions of the serious haulage industry have been debated extensively, not only here in Parliament but also with the common man. More and more people understand the link between illegal goods traffic and other criminal activities. It has been noted in the media that stolen goods are taken out of the country annually equivalent to approximately SEK 2 billion, and then we are talking only about the goods insured. The road is simply the tool of criminals, and here the government has completely lost control of development. The number of traffic police has fallen sharply in recent years, and retirements are still continuing. The government has set up an investigation into how control activities should be organised in the future. That's good. At the same time, however, the reduction in activity in recent years is unimaginable. Why not secure the staff until the investigation is complete? It doesn't make any sense. However, I am pleased to see that more and more parties here in Parliament are beginning to talk about more effective control of professional traffic, and that is a good thing. There are increasing numbers of us who want to protect the serious entrepreneurship of the transport industry and thereby secure the jobs of serious companies. Combating illegal traffic also means greatly reducing the ability of criminals to use the logistics system for their internal transport of contraband and stolen goods. Mr President, I would like to When we have the theme of a healthy transport industry up for discussion, I must nevertheless comment on the opposite development we are seeing in the transport sector today. More and more goods are being moved from vehicles capable of carrying a gross mass of 64 tonnes to so-called European tractors, which usually have a gross weight of only 40 tonnes. If we are to have a healthy, environmentally friendly and functioning transport market, where hauliers, railways and shipping can develop a healthy and sustainable transport industry, we must be tough on the operators who put in systems to cheat. From an environmental point of view, this development is totally reprehensible, as there are three Europeans in two full-sized Swedish combinations. Mr President, I would like to Cabotage rules were introduced to minimise transport without goods, so-called empty driving, and the rules say it should be a temporary domestic transport in a host country. Cabotage and even combined transport have instead developed into an activity alongside all regulations. Mobile workshops and refuelling stations have been established to supply the foreign vehicles with workshop services and fuel. A common feature of mobile operations is that the work takes place in the open air, which means increased risks of spillage of environmentally hazardous liquids. There are brake changes, clutch changes, oil changes and more or less large repairs along our roads or in parking spaces. This is a rather strange situation because one of the basic pillars of the cabotage rules is precisely temporary domestic transport in the host country. Of course, if it were temporary transport, it would not create a market with mobile workshop services outdoors. What we are seeing is the result of a transport industry that has been left without control and protection from our authorities. This situation has led to serious road haulage companies with high environmental ambitions not being able to compete with foam companies that are constantly in breach of existing regulations. Developments have also had a negative impact on railway undertakings as they lose transport assignments. But what else can be expected with a political leadership that literally sits on its hands? Some time ago, the so-called mobility package was adopted, and it is a major step in the right direction to strengthen serious entrepreneurship. Although the mobility package is in place, each Member State must equip its control activities so that the strengthened regulatory framework can also tackle the deliberate fraud. Mr President, I would like to It is with pleasure that I read articles about the control officials on the road who are making a fantastic contribution to the serious business in the transport industry. An article published on 19 January in the newspaper Proffs summarises the situation as follows: Car inspector Roger Ogemar is refined when he has written many reports in the haulage company. These include, for example, third country drivers without a driver's licence, vehicles that have been driven by invalid rights of use agreements and several penalties. "The farm almost has a clipped card on cabotage sanctions and they won't let us down this time either," he says. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to According to a survey carried out by the Swedish Taxi Association, black taxi via Facebook groups has taken an iron grip on the taxi market in several Swedish cities. It is a relationship I have raised in connection with interpellation debates in this House. The serious taxi companies are forced to watch customers move to the black market when society is passively watching. On top of this, the pandemic has hit the taxi companies with full force and further worsened the situation for the whole taxi industry. Finally, the whole existence of the serious taxi companies is threatened. This is why we see that more and more cities in Sweden lack taxi services, which is a problem for both the local business community and society at large. Municipalities and individuals are affected when school shooting, sick trips and transport services are to be procured because there are no local bidders. Welfare is deprived of taxes, taxes and VAT. In addition, serious companies are at risk of being knocked out as they are unable to compete in the long term against companies competing with prices based on untaxed black business. Mr President, I would like to Together, we have the responsibility to protect the serious business in the transport industry. We cannot allow developments to continue as they have in recent years. It simply takes a change of course to protect the serious companies and, by extension, our society as a whole. The Swedish democrats will not turn an inch away from the demands for a functioning control activity on the road, because serious entrepreneurship in the transport industry can rightly demand that illegal activities be combated.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-806	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating commercial transport in all its forms. We can well say that a functioning transport sector, regardless of the mode of transport, is a prerequisite for the ability to live, live and operate throughout the country. The functioning of business transport is the basis for a prosperous economy throughout our country. Technology development, efficiency, digitalisation, regulatory change, order and fair competition continue to contribute to good communications and a good business environment throughout the country and to the ability to meet the climate and environmental commitments that we as a country have and that the industry has. There is no contradiction between this, according to my view and that of the Center Party. Mr President, I would like to For the whole country to live, healthy companies are required to operate in tough but healthy competition, including in the transport market. Today there is an extremely strong competitive situation in the transport sector. We note that there are signs of an increase in the number of hauliers engaged in illegal activities. Although the police have been given increased powers to stop and retain trucks and drivers carrying out illegal cabotage, for example, the resources or attention paid to this by the Police Authority are not enough. For the Center Party, it is a priority to reduce fraud on our roads and reduce illegal cabotage and other transport. One way to do this is to ensure that supervision is effective within the framework of all the rules that we have decided on here in Parliament. Then we can curb cheating and at the same time increase road safety. Further measures should also be taken. Some have been mentioned here in the debate before. This applies, for example, to non-manipulable gps-positioners for those road hauliers, regardless of their nationality, who operate the Swedish road network. Today there is a lack of proof or difficulty in proving a reason for leniency. Anyone who pulls someone in front of the shroud must be very sure that a crime has been committed. The Center Party believes that there is a need for more traffic police, more field officials from the Swedish Transport Agency and, above all, better coordination between the various authorities, such as the Police Authority, which is responsible for curbing and combating crime and doing so. The lack of staff with competence and knowledge to carry out checks is in itself a problem. There's a need for enhanced staffing. This could be achieved by, for example, finding those authorities, the Transport Agency and the Police Authority, through procurement in structures other than the state's own, such as the inspection industry, who are prepared to broaden their field of competence, who are fundamentally highly qualified and who could contribute to more effective and frequent supervision. Furthermore, the Center Party believes that technological developments in the field of transport should be used to a greater extent than at present to tackle rogue operators. Today, it is far too easy for those who want to be an unserious actor to obtain information about where the checks are carried out, how to avoid them by choosing another route and so on. The Center Party believes that a more fundamental analysis must serve as a basis for how flows and transports are carried out, so that the police know, with much more precision than they do today, which nodes and which transporters are at risk of unserious activity and can therefore design the controls so that they cannot be avoided. Another way to increase efficiency is to use the possibility of automatic plate reading. That technology exists. It already exists in several of the cars used in traffic. This can be done together with road safety cameras, which are also located along the roads. It would thus be possible to read vehicle identities. It would be easier than today to map routes in time and space. This means that, linked to the risk value system already in place under the supervision of the authorities, vehicles and road hauliers could be selected more carefully than at present for deeper control, which will give more precision to the work. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the Center Party points out that much more must be done to cooperate between the more than half a dozen government agencies involved in the control and supervision of professional traffic today. Perhaps the Police Authority and the Transport Agency are the ones that are most involved. I am convinced that the approach that has been followed in other areas where cheating has existed, that is, better cooperation between authorities, would mean greater efficiency and accuracy in this work and fewer incentives to be the one who chooses to cheat, even in this industry and the crime that exists on our roads. I am in favour of reservation numme r 3 in the report.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-815	Mr President, I would like to I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation n umme r 23 on the fair conditions in the taxi industry. However, I would like to start by talking about the haulage industry, which for a long time has had major problems with wage dumping, unfair competition and a lack of road safety. Over the years, more and more domestic transport has been carried out by foreign hauliers who pay wages well below Swedish collective agreements and who also pressure their drivers to violate both working time and traffic rules. Serious haulage companies that comply with laws and collective agreements are becoming increasingly difficult to cope with competition. The European Commission's objective of opening up the road transport market and giving free access to all operators and operators has for a long time been countering socially and ecologically sustainable transport supply. Policy action is therefore needed both within the EU and at national level to stop the rogue hauliers. For the Left Party, the starting point is that everyone who drives in Sweden should work under equal and good working conditions. To achieve this, clear policy measures are needed. The road package adopted by the European Parliament in July 2020, or the mobility package, contains new rules to bring about a better order for heavy traffic on our roads. The Left Party welcomes the decision, which provides the conditions for more healthy competition and better working conditions. The Left is of the opinion that there is now an urgent need to strengthen the national regulatory framework and to ensure that combined transport is covered by the cabotage rules, which is now possible with the road package. However, in order for the road package to have a real impact, national enforcement opportunities also need to be improved. For example, in 2019 and 2020 Denmark has introduced new and stricter rules for fair transport and fairer working conditions. The application of the rules has also been made stricter. The basis of the initiative was the finding that social dumping and exploitation of drivers from Eastern Europe and Asia was a huge and unresolved problem. It was also a major and crucial obstacle to the changes that need to be made in order for all transport to become environmentally friendly and sustainable. As long as it is a profitable business model to exploit truck drivers from other countries to offer cheap transport, including empty driving, it is a long way to go before we have fair and environmentally friendly transport. The Danish model implies, among other things, stricter national application on the roads with increased and better controls and national rules for the posting of bus and lorry drivers. This shall create a level playing field on the market of transport undertakings. As part of the new rules, for example, foreign carriers must upload detailed data in the Danish transport database before each transport on Danish roads. The data are then used in the roadside checks. New stricter rules have also been introduced for bus cabotage, and considerably higher fines have been introduced to put an end to the abuse of drivers forced to live in the truck as a business model. Mr President, I would like to We've become way too used to the words, free shipping. There is no such thing as a free shipping service. Someone always pays, and if it isn't the consumer, it's the driver, the climate and the environment. The Left Party believes that the government should come back with proposals to use the Danish model of fair transport and more favourable conditions. Mr President, I would like to The taxi market was liberalised in 1990. The consequences have been great, not least for the taxi drivers. The situation of drivers has deteriorated radically with worse conditions, more stress, economic uncertainty and low wages. The profession has gone from being a high-status profession with good conditions to a low-status profession with poor conditions and high risks. Contracts are all too often won by rogue companies that push prices through social dumping. Collective agreements are too rare, and when they exist they are often not complied with. Due to the structure of the industry, the position of trade unions is weak. The entry of so-called platform companies into the market has further exacerbated the problems. Some re-regulation to curb the worst offs has taken place, but it only applies to things that directly affected customers, such as usury prices. Consequences for taxi drivers and their conditions have not been given much thought. The taxi industry is currently unsustainable. The situation has been well known for a long time, and it is high time that policy takes responsibility and ensures that taxi drivers have a good working environment and reasonable working conditions. There needs to be a greater investigation into the taxi industry and clear measures for a sustainable taxi industry. In the meantime, however, there are things we can do here and now to improve conditions. The relationships between drivers, hauliers, ordering centres and purchasers are complex. A lot of evidence suggests that the person who is supposed to have the employer's responsibility slips away from it. The government should examine the employment limits for self-employed workers in the taxi industry in order to clarify what constitutes an employment relationship and who is responsible for employees and clarify the rules and roles and propose measures to avoid employers escaping their responsibilities. Just after the taxi market had been liberalised and there was more or less chaos, Biltrafiken's Employers' Association took the opportunity to terminate the collective agreement. It took two years to negotiate a new one, and the union was forced to agree to include a percentage salary in the agreement. Many taxi drivers today work only against a percentage salary. You can guess what happens when the number of runs has fallen drastically under the coronapndemine, for example. Some, too few, have collective agreements with a very low guarantee salary, but too often it is not even paid out. As everyone who has ever been in that situation knows, it leads to a lot of stress and anxiety not knowing if you can manage your everyday economy from month to month. Of course, it affects the health of drivers and affects their life situation and ultimately also road safety. By means of an EU regulation, a percentage wage has been prohibited in freight transport on the grounds of road safety. The same thing should be done about the taxi business. The fact that full-time employees work towards chords in Sweden in 2020 is under all criticism and cannot of course be allowed to continue. Bad procurements where rogue companies win contracts through social dumping and unreasonable time calculations are a problem for the taxi industry. It has improved slightly since the law was amended and purchasers are now allowed to make demands on collective agreements and other things and are not forced to take into account only the lowest price, but the situation is still not good. Moreover, due to a lack of controls, it is not certain that companies that win contracts will then comply with the requirements laid down. Often deficiencies in delivery are linked to large periodic penalty payments while having been calculated far too short lead times that leave no room at all for unexpected events, which increases drivers' stress and leads to them not being able to take their breaks as they should. Contractors must be given the opportunity to make greater demands on tenderers, but must also take greater responsibility for compliance with laws and rules and compliance with them. It should also be mandatory for winning companies to take over the staff with retained or better conditions from the company that previously operated. Contractors shall also be responsible for ordering. The Corona crisis has raised and clarified the problems even more, not least the lack of control of the industry by the authorities. There is a great risk that the serious taxi companies will be knocked out and the rogues will remain. The government should ensure that the controls are extended and that the supervisory authorities are entrusted with greater cooperation. Mr President, I would like to As a country, we need to start to be much more aware of people's working conditions and living conditions and make conscious choices when we act. This also applies when we buy cargo or from ourselves. Saving a few crowns is always nice. But it is much less pleasant when it is done at another person's expense. I apologise for exceeding the allotted speaking time.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-834	Mr President, I would like to We are talking today about commercial traffic. Shortly before I continue my main speech, however, I must reflect on the situation in which professional traffic has landed. Perhaps when we wrote the motions, the situation wasn't as it is now. I would like to reflect on the fact that the whole transport sector with hauliers, taxis and public transport has been hit extremely hard by the pandemic. My experience is that we here in Parliament, although we do not always agree on the details, have worked well together to try to mate quite a lot. That is what I want to say from the House. Then there are details and pieces where we disagree and may have thought it could have gone faster. But we are well aware of the situation that many road hauliers find themselves in. We are grateful for the great work that is being done for Sweden to function during the pandemic. I just want it said. An exciting process is also taking place throughout the transport sector. Public transport has been ahead of us in many respects. You are more or less fossil-free in many ways. It is about biofuels and electrification. We have worked with processes that make us have a better and more environmentally friendly business. We see that the exact same development is now taking place on the truck side and also on the car side. There is, however, a small catch. Perhaps we can debate it here or in committees. It is the fact that if the electrification that is taking place is to have the great environmental impact that we want when we take responsibility together in the transport sector, the electricity used must also be fossil-free. At least we Christian Democrats have a great deal of concern there. It may well be that we electrify large parts of the transport sector but that the electricity comes from Polish coal power. Then we won nothing. Mr President, I would like to S venk haulage industry is exposed to fierce international competition. We would therefore like to highlight the need for better monitoring of lorry traffic so that we can achieve fair competition. We can see that the risk of getting caught is small for foreign trucks, and the development of fewer and fewer traffic police officers therefore needs to be reversed. Experience from, for example, Denmark's efforts to combat illegal cabotage transport shows that legislative changes are needed and that the police have sufficient resources to counter fraud. We can also point to the need for competitively neutral controls on Swedish and foreign hauliers. While Swedish companies are controlled by the Swedish Transport Agency, foreign companies are controlled by the police. We believe that this creates a risk of distortion of competition. Instead, one and the same control authority should deal with the controls in order to be able to find the companies that are misbehaving. We believe that the police should regain responsibility for driving and rest checks also for Swedish hauliers. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that several EU countries' vehicle registers are not yet available to our control authorities, although they are due to be available in EU decisions since 2012. For the functioning of the common market, all registers must be open to all Member States and authorities. A common market presupposes that we have some form of common ground. Mr President, I would like to We believe that the rules for responsible road haulage companies should be simplified. The rules in the transport industry are rigorous to prevent cheating, but the regulations have become too cumbersome for law-abiding companies to be able to operate properly. The Swedish Transport Agency has decided on high penalties for minor deviations that the hauliers have little or no opportunity to influence. We can also note that the tachographs that companies must have installed are not user-friendly and often create mistakes that impose a penalty fee on companies. We believe that the Swedish Transport Agency's supervision of haulage companies needs to be more fair and legally secure. I can say in this House that I think Anders Åkesson's proposal for a solution to this sounded interesting and that I intend to look further at it. Today, it is the companies that get caught up in police controls that end up on the Transport Agency's list of enforcement objects. As relatively few companies get caught up in police controls, this system, in our opinion, entails a high degree of randomness. It is precisely to the detriment of those who have once been stuck, while others, who are not stuck, are actually able to engage in a distortion of competition. Mr President, I would like to We have problems with external companies that violate Sweden's laws and then leave the country. We therefore believe that a decision on clapping should be made by staff at a checkpoint, which means that all control personnel assigned to carry out flying inspections should also be able to take the necessary decisions in relation to clapping. We also believe that there is a need for an extension of the time for squeezing from today's 36 hours until the reason for the squeezing is fixed. It's a bit unreasonable that you first stoop and then you stoop off, and then they run away anyway. Mr President, I would like to More or less every summer we read about robberies at rest places. We therefore continue to highlight the need for road infrastructure to be designed so that it can offer good safety and safety to those who drive professional traffic as well as to other road users using our roads. We would therefore like to highlight the need for safe rest and parking places for truck drivers and other road users, and we believe that a plan for safe rest and parking places should be developed. Mr President, I would like to The liberalisation carried out by the Swedish taxi market in 1990 has led to a wider range of taxi companies and jobs. The taxi industry is an important part of the tourism industry. At the same time, we can note that Sweden's reputation in terms of prices and reliability has unfortunately been sidelined in recent years. To stop cheating in the taxi industry, a number of new rules have been introduced that can help to remedy the problems. In order to ensure that new rules in the taxi industry are complied with and not rendered ineffective, we believe that further information efforts and increased supervision and control are needed. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden it is not allowed for deaf people to be granted a taxi license. This depends on the Swedish Transport Agency's rules, which state that a taxi driver's license should be able to perceive what a passenger or other road user is trying to communicate at a distance of four metres. We believe that in the vast majority of cases this is a perfectly reasonable requirement. At the same time, we would like to point out that there are people who cannot be understood otherwise than by sign language, and for them oral communication does not play as much role. We would also like to point out that unemployment among the deaf is high. Allowing the deaf to take a taxi licence could create opportunities for niche taxi companies that are primarily aimed at those who depend on sign language. We believe that this would make it easier for the deaf who need transport services, school transport services and other public services, while increasing the livelihood of the deaf. Against this background, we believe that the rules should be changed so that deaf people can also be granted taxi drivers' identification. Mr President, I would like to We can see that the collaborative economy will be an important part of the transition to green transport. With regard to the legislation governing the taxi industry, we believe that it is lagging behind and needs to be modernised. In addition to the collaborative economy, other forms of taxi services are also emerging, increasing supply, while at the same time there is a risk that new companies and services will distort competition. The government should therefore initiate a review of taxi training and taxi legislation in order to include and increase digitalisation and the sharing economy in the industry. Mr President, I would like to We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-857	Mr President, I would like to Now we are leaving 2020 behind – a year that has been completely dominated by the coronapndemine. Transport is the area most severely affected. Increasing restrictions to prevent the spread of infection have hit hard on all types of transport, but above all on passenger transport, including the taxi industry. I've been talking to desperate taxi owners who have seen the demand and all their savings lost. It's life's work that's disappeared. The Liberals have developed a long series of extra budgets through the January agreement to mitigate the effects and to have a functioning taxi industry on the day it turns around. Nor do we exclude the fact that we will have to make more proposals to make it easier for the industry. Freight transport has not seen the same decline, partly because other consequences of the pandemic, such as the increase in e-commerce, have kept freight transport going. However, the industry has otherwise been hit by closed borders in Europe for a limited period of time this spring, by local demand, such as along the border with Norway, and by difficulties for drivers to renew their professional qualifications in order to be able to legally drive their truck. We have debated this earlier in this House. At a difficult time, it is even more important to safeguard fair competition conditions and compliance with regulations. The industry is of great importance for Swedish companies' competitiveness and freight handling, and it provides many jobs in Sweden. We want to facilitate a healthy industry in Sweden. We have high ambitions for the transfer of goods to rail and shipping. However, with the current increase in the need for freight transport, the haulage industry will be responsible for the majority of freight transport in Sweden for a long time to come. Mr President, I would like to Freight transport is cross-border and there is strong competition in the transport industry. That is why the EU directives and regulations through the mobility packages are of the utmost importance for us to have a regulatory framework that supports serious hauliers. We also need to strengthen work against foreign and Swedish haulage companies engaged in illegal activities. Regulatory frameworks without follow-up become toothless and therefore do not have the intended effect. Now that the police have been given increased powers, there must be sufficient traffic police to carry out increased controls on heavy traffic. Otherwise, cheating, including cabotage, driving and rest periods and drunk driving, risks increasing. We want to speed up the work of GPS transmitters for foreign registered road hauliers under the cabotage rules and invest in more traffic police working on the ground with controls. Finally, we also want to see better coordination between the various authorities and that the government urgently takes advantage of the proposals in the mandate for more effective checks on professional traffic on the road to combat crime in the transport sector. Madam President, I would like The industry must be involved in the transition to fossil-free transport. Margins in the industry are small, so collaboration between different industry actors is important. This was a major reason why the Liberals initiated the Electrification Commission to ensure that the expansion of the charging infrastructure in Sweden could really facilitate the transition to electrification of the industry. This is in its infancy. Trucks are naturally based on the conversion of passenger cars. Therefore, the Liberals pushed for the premium for the purchase of electric trucks to reach a level that really met the industry's tough economic conditions, so that one could count home the purchase of an electric truck instead of a fossil-powered truck, when the law was passed. Madam President, I would like Now I hope that the vaccine in 2021 will put an end to the pandemic's far-reaching extinguishing of our society so that demand can thus return to normal levels for the taxi industry and that we can increase regulatory compliance in the haulage industry in order to strengthen the industry. I hereby support the Liberals' reservation No 6 on the regulation and control of the haulage industry.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-869	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Transport Committee's report TU2, Professional Transport and Taxi. I would like to begin by calling, on behalf of the Socialist Group, for the committee's proposal and for its rejection of all reservations. Since this House's last debate on these issues, the industry, like all other parts of society, has been severely tested by the coronapndemin. Despite major support efforts, the taxi industry, for example, has been hit very hard when more and more people are forced to work from home and we cannot and should travel in the same way as before. But it has also become even clearer that the transport of goods, goods and people despite the pandemic is a key element in keeping society going. Although the coronapandemia has had a significant impact on the industry, many of the most important challenges for both commercial traffic and taxis also existed before the pandemic, not least the importance of getting order and order. One of the single most important tasks for us working on these issues is precisely to ensure fair conditions for workers in the industry and competition on equal terms for companies. Some actors are doing everything they can to avoid complying with common regulations and shoeing at the expense of others. This is totally unacceptable and not only opposes the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry, but also the whole of the Swedish model. I would like to emphasise that in many cases heavy road transport is cross-border. That is why joint action at European level is needed to maintain a level playing field. We cannot do the job ourselves in Sweden. What does it look like on the roads in Sweden today? Well, the Swedish Transport Agency refers to the fact that they see several steps in a positive direction, including in terms of compliance with the rules of the goods sector. At the same time, they are concerned to see that speed compliance has deteriorated and uneven developments in driving and rest times. This risks having consequences both for the risk of accidents and for our ability to achieve a level playing field in the haulage industry. Another picture is the one I get confirmed when I meet representatives of the industry. These are, on the one hand, drivers who are forced to live in their truck cabs, who are not allowed to meet their family for long periods of time and who, at the same time, have completely unacceptably low wages, and, on the other hand, customers who do not accept their responsibilities. We've been working and we're still working hard to stop this. That is why, Madam President, it is gratifying that last summer, after a long and crooked road of work on the so-called mobility package, the Council and the European Parliament adopted three acts covering, among other things, access to the freight transport market, including the rules on cabotage, the rules on driving and rest times and on tachographs. In addition, special rules were introduced for the secondment of professional drivers in the field of road transport. This means in practice that everyone who drives domestic transport in Sweden should do so with Swedish wages and working conditions. If you are permanently present in Sweden, you must register the vehicle and pay tax in Sweden. Now we are going to put an end to business models based on dumped wages and conditions. Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that this important work has finally achieved results in Europe, more action is needed to monitor and control the regulatory framework on our roads. Therefore, it is good and important that the Government decided in August 2019 to give a special investigator the task of reviewing how the control activities of road traffic are conducted and making proposals for improvement measures, including organisational measures, in order for more people to comply with the rules in this area. The investigation shall, inter alia, identify and analyse the current control activities of the authorities, provide an international overview of how control activities for road traffic have been designed to better comply with rules, propose measures to strengthen control activities and further improve compliance with rules, and consider whether a changed organisation is needed to carry out this control. There is no quick or easy solution to these problems. But I can say that when other parties have stalled, delayed and questioned the value and importance of the work for order, we Social Democrats have always remained at the same position: It is unacceptable to create unsound competition by dumping Swedish wages and conditions! Madam President, I would like We have taken action after action and are finally seeing success also at European level. It is proof of persistent and clearly prioritised work for order and order, especially from Stefan Lövven's government and the Minister for Infrastructure, but also from MEPs such as former Jens Nilsson and Marita Marita and now also Johan Danielsson. Madam President, I would like Even before the investigation came about and the decision went through in the EU, the government had taken a number of other important steps for order and order. Among other things, we have made it possible for the police and customs to prevent vehicles from continuing to travel through so-called clapping. We have also provided resources so that about 400 police and car inspectors were trained in checks on foreign trucks and imposed penalties for infringements of cabotage regulations. Recently, the government also referred a proposal for immediate fines if you violate the applicable driving and rest times, in accordance with the mobility package. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say something specifically about the taxi industry. It has also, as I said at the outset, been followed up and examined to deal with cheating and unfair competition. In the Swedish Transport Agency's audit from the 2019 follow-up, it is noted that the taxi industry's concerns are those who do not officially drive taxis, but who nevertheless drive people for payment, so-called black taxi operations. Platforms on various social media channels enable them to market their illegal services in a way that risks damaging the serious taxi industry. ..................................................... In line with the digital development, which is of course so good and important for society, it also grows and is established activities that do nothing but pressure prices and strengthen the unhealthy competition. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. A functioning control activity is needed to achieve order and order. Finally, Madam President, we will continue to work towards order and order. It is never okay to dump Swedish salaries and conditions. It is ultimately a matter of safeguarding the Swedish model.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-885	Madam President, I would like After that speech, there are many questions I would like to ask Elin Gustafsson. I was going to stick to two, though. Elin Gustafsson talks hotly about the conditions for the haulage industry and the importance that these are the fairest conditions and not unsound competition. On 19 April 2017, a decision was made here in the Riksdag on an announcement to the Government to come back with proposals on how to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry and to set up an investigation to find tools for this. That investigation is still pending in January 2021. It is quite a few years that have passed without the government having done anything. As I said in my speech, the haulage industry cannot pay its bills with empty words from the government. You need action, too. The second issue I would like to raise concerns safe resting places. Good working conditions are usually close to Social Democrats, and that is something that Elin Gustafsson talked about a lot. Today, many truck drivers feel extremely insecure because there are no safe places for them to set up their vehicles when they are going to rest. Trafikverket has a mission to look at this, but there's basically nothing happening.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-890	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for your commitment to these important questions and for the questions you ask me! I find it a little remarkable that the Moderates themselves have such a high tone on these issues and that the honourable Member starts by asking me a question about this particular investigation and also in his previous speech said that the government would not do enough with these questions. At the same time, I have just stood here and explained, point by point, exactly what the government has taken in terms of order and order. I think it is worth noting what reality actually looks like. I can ask a question back to Maria Stockhaus. During their reign, the Moderates did not raise a single proposal that actually contributed to order. Colleagues down in the European Parliament have not even always been involved in voting on these issues and in the treatment of the mobility package. When they have been there, they have also voted against in many cases. So one can question whether the Moderates' involvement is actually as strong as Maria Stockhaus says it is. I believe that Maria Stockhaus is obliged to give an answer to the honest involvement of the Moderates in these matters. The government is very clear, and we show this time and again with action, not least now after the mobility package and the ongoing investigation that I have just presented. The issue of safe resting places is also included in the report. I do not agree with Maria Stockhaus that no work is being done in this area, because it does. I would like to emphasise that it is important that our rest areas are safe and that it is something that we must continue to work on. So I share that picture. Work is already being done, but of course we need to do more.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-896	Madam President, I would like Implementing decisions that have already been taken in the European Parliament is hardly to be particularly effective as a government. I still question what the government intends to do with the announcement of 19 April 2017. It is about reviewing taxes, fees and other things that we ourselves control here in Sweden and about setting up the investigation. That it should take so long and that the government sits on its hands and cannot even set up the investigation is a rather boring signal to Swedish haulage industry that you do not believe in it. When it comes to safe and secure rest areas, the only thing that is done is, I am aware, that the Swedish Transport Administration has this mission. I have not seen any sign that the truck drivers who drive on our roads have experienced any difference. From Traffic Analysis one is very clear that a majority of drivers experience a great deal of insecurity. What does Elin Gustafsson mean that the government has done more concretely that these truck drivers would experience in their daily lives? The fact that Trafikverket is doing some mapping and investigation is nothing that makes any difference at all today to the truck drivers who drive on our roads.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-899	Madam President, I would like I think that Maria Stockhaus is very easily waving away the work of the government and does not really want to stick to the reality when she says that the implementation of rules from the EU is not about acting forcefully. Not only has the government done an important impact on the EU, but it has also delivered, on a point-by-point basis, measures during the last parliamentary term, as I mentioned in my speech. It is a matter of squeezing, historical efforts on the police and special training efforts to make these checks – on the spot, we deliver measures. In fact, the Moderates did nothing about these issues when they were in government. Can we trust that the Moderates really think this is important? I also find it remarkable that the Moderates are raising the tone on these issues and, at the same time, have not shown that commitment themselves. This is a question that I feel Maria Stockhaus is not answering at all. As far as safe resting places are concerned, as I said, there is work going on, but that is also something that we must continue to work with. We are not satisfied there, but we must ensure that our drivers throughout the country can stay and feel safe wherever they are. The government is clear about that, and this is an important piece of work that we will continue to do.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-904	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting speech, Elin Gustafsson! I have to say that I am a little curious, because the honourable Member says here that the government delivers on a point-by-point basis. Then I wonder to what address to deliver things, because it is not on the way anyway. Some of the points that the honourable Member said were in order, the fair terms and the level playing field. The question has to be asked: why is the government so slow to act against criminal activity along the way? Driving in Sweden without complying with the regulations is a criminal act. You put your legs away for serious business when you don't follow the rules. The honourable Member also referred to the fact that speed is being driven up on the roads. It is a natural effect of paying drivers salary after the number of miles they have driven. That's how it works out there. Drivers are clearly underpaid. They may get SEK 10 per mile they drive and not a crown when the car is to be loaded and unloaded. Then it's about trying to pick as many miles as possible so you can get your salary. If you want heat in your cab when you're going to sleep, you have to pay for your own fuel or possibly steal it from another car. That's how it works out on the road. We have been discussing this with the government for many years, but nothing is happening. The honourable Member says that you deliver on a point-by-point basis, and I am curious: to which address do you deliver?
i-BkwJMTbp3G8ju4CrgUmJw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for the questions! I can start by saying that Morell doesn't have to tell me what the reality is. I know very well what reality looks like. One might ask, however, whether the Swedish Democrats actually deliberately do not want to show what the reality is but rather are interested in throwing out fog curtains around what is actually happening. Thomas Morell is often standing in the speaker's chair and debating these issues with the Minister for Infrastructure. I am convinced that Thomas Morell is following very well the measures taken by the Minister for Infrastructure during both the previous term of office and this one. When it comes to the address to which the measures are sent – yes, I do not know, but perhaps it is a question of first following the decisions made by the Minister and the Government. I lined up a number of examples in my speech of measures that we have taken during this parliamentary term and the previous one, and not least I laid emphasis on describing the investigation that really takes a holistic approach to many of the issues that the Swedish Democrats tend to ask for focus on. Do not come here and pretend that the government does not take action or take these issues seriously! We do, but one might wonder if the Swedish democrats do so when they raise their tone in this way.
i-2D1gmpZgqMd5127cWzBgkV	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Mr Gustafsson! I'm not raising my tone. I simply note that what is constantly being said by the government does not have any effect on the way. I often talk to my old colleagues, and the only thing that happens is that they lose more and more of their colleagues who can do the job to curb the cheating out there. It doesn't fill up with new ones. Now some car inspectors have been brought in, but it is not being filled up at the rate people are coming out of the stations. This is a concern. We can go to the tachograph, for example, as the honourable Member mentioned. It's never been as easy to cheat as it is today... never before. You can put the system completely out of action with a simple handle. To get to grips with this, it is not enough with any automated controls, as the government often talks about, but to have good officials on the road who can read where the car has been and what steps the driver has taken. I've been working on the road myself, stopping drivers. The worst driver had then driven 55 hours without approved rest by manipulating the system – 55 hours. It's everyday today. Either you drive on several driver cards or you put in a system that knocks out the tachograph. To get to this, we need people on the road. There the government has not delivered, not on a single point.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-916	Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat what Mr Morell said earlier, namely that the government is sitting on its hands. That is what Thomas Morell has said to me in other debates. I thought I was trying to be clear in a previous reply, but I must stress again that this is an area in which the government is absolutely not sitting on any hands, and that is clear. I share the view that it is extremely important that we control the fraud that exists. That is also what I put the greatest emphasis on in my speech, so I would like to emphasise this very strongly. That's why we're historically investing a lot in the police. We have earmarked resources to train cabotage. We are now also taking a look at the overall investigation to see: Are changes needed in the organization? Is there a need for regulatory changes and other things to strengthen control? Once again, it seems to me that the Swedish Democrats are not really interested in hearing what measures are being taken. As I said earlier, fog curtains are being thrown out. It is not true that we are not doing anything. However, as I also mentioned in my speech, I would like to say that there are no simple solutions. I hope that the Swedish Democrats also think it is important that we have evidence when we should perhaps make organizational changes and the like. It is not possible to introduce new professions directly or make rapid changes. As I said, we have made a historic effort on the police. And the current investigation also looks at a broader perspective. We are therefore investing here and now as well as making a long-term effort to curb the cheating. That is definitely the government's priority in order to get things right.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-921	Madam President, I would like I'd like to ask you a question. Historically, the Social Democrats have been good at following technology flows. As a party, they have collaborated with different parties from different traditions over a long period of time. I admit that the Social Democrats were involved in building the country, along with the business community and everyone else who did what they did for Sweden. Now we're in a shift in technology. It's about electric roads, charging stations and a whole new thought about electrification. But this is not only in our area of responsibility – roads, flights and charging stations – but also in society as a whole. We see how the industry is thinking about changing to become more fossil-free. The industry will also then place higher demands on electrification. Then there will be a dilemma for me. I have the greatest respect for the history of the Social Democrats as an industrial party, but they are working together today with a party that has a different history and another way of looking at the political landscape. Therefore, my question is a little about what I touched on in my speech: how do the Social Democrats view the possibility of electrifying, which requires more electricity, while reducing fossil-free electricity? So there is a dilemma here which the Social Democrats, as the old industrial party, need to think a little about.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-924	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the important issues, for the intervention and, as I understand it, the commitment to a sustainable transition! It is there somewhere I would like to take up in my answer to Magnus Jacobsson. The government's absolute priority is that we should contribute to achieving the climate goals and that Sweden should become the first fossil-free welfare country. We also see that we already have the opportunity today to electrify and convert very large parts of the transport sector. We need to step up that work even more. I am very optimistic, but also alarms at the fact that we actually need to take action. I do not see that there needs to be the contradiction that Magnus Jacobsson paints. We must, of course, ensure that there is a fair transition for the whole country. Magnus Jacobsson stressed this by building the country. That is something we Social Democrats still want to do and do, I would like to emphasise. It is therefore important that we have both perspectives with us when we talk about the transformation of the transport sector. Electrification will be absolutely necessary, and we heard earlier Member Gellerman mention precisely the Electrification Commission. It is an important work that is under way, and we must continue to work to re-establish the whole transport sector. But Magnus Jacobsson is happy to develop more how the Christian Democrats view this. As far as I know, the Christian Democrats do not really stand up for all the environmental ambitions of the government. But Magnus Jacobsson is happy to develop how the Christian Democrats view the importance of a sustainable transition.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-929	Madam President, I would like I see, above all, that we need to give information on where to have final custody – the government is on its table now. If you do not give this information, it means in practice braking or phasing out further nuclear power. It is clear that we cannot talk about an environmentally friendly society while eliminating fossil-free electricity. We're going to need more fossil-free electricity. It will be able to be found in nuclear power. It will be in water. It will probably be in both wind and sun. But it is a problem when you talk about a major social change while making decisions or, more accurately, in this case, non-decisions that risk counteracting that social change. I have another question too, Madam President. I think we really agree very much in committee that there should be order, not only in our finances but also in the traffic system. We Christian Democrats have put forward a concrete proposal. We're a little perplexed about why the government isn't really picking on it. It's about the clamping. There have been changes, and from our point of view there have been improvements. So you're squeezing for a long time. But our proposal is quite specific: let it be applied until a fine has been paid or the vehicle has been repaired, in the case of another offence which makes the vehicle simply dangerous. Madam President, I would like How does the honourable Member feel about actually going one step further and squabbling until the clamping is no longer needed?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-934	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for further questions! Let me begin by saying that I feel it is a pity that in the climate debate Moderates and Christian Democrats often repeat a call for nuclear power as the only solution to climate change. I also hear Magnus Jacobsson circulating around it in his questions to me. I find it sad that we do not have greater ambitions and can see any further in terms of the environmental perspective and the transformation of the transport sector and society at large. You just focus on this. We already have opportunities today. We must change the whole transport sector, and we must ensure that there is a fair transition. We could have done much more if more people had been in the boat and pressed further. But I look forward to the Christian Democrats becoming more climate-friendly and further contributing to the sustainable transition, which is necessary throughout the country and throughout the transport sector. As far as clogging and order are concerned, I was very clear in my speech. We have taken steps, as Magnus Jacobsson referred to. I also mentioned that the ongoing investigation is taking a comprehensive approach to these issues and looking at whether further action is needed. Of course, we need to look at whether additional sanctions or the like are needed to tackle this cheating, the illegal transport and the lack of order that we see in many places. Of course, we must therefore take further action. We've done a lot of things, but we're not going to give up until we get to full order and have the best conditions on our roads.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-942	Madam President, I would like Transport is an important function of society. We all see this, not least in these pandemic times when our transport has been restricted. Goods and people need to be transported, and for that to happen, truck traffic is actually needed – we in the Green Party also say that. At the same time, we can see that heavy goods vehicles are still largely dependent on fossil fuels and that working conditions are not always good, as many companies cheat with driving and rest times, heavy loads and more. This must change. The S-MP government presented last year a freight transport strategy aimed at creating an efficient, capable and sustainable freight transport system. The Government highlights in the strategy that the companies operating in the transport sector and how they operate are crucial to achieving both competitive and sustainable freight transport. The government also points to the importance of companies that take responsibility and invest in measures to reduce environmental impact, increase road safety and offer good working conditions not being competed out by companies that do not comply with the rules. The Green Party wants to see the necessary transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping, which is also the focus of the government's freight transport strategy. This means that the competitive environment for rail and maritime freight transport needs to be strengthened in relation to the conditions for truck transport. The Green Party therefore wants to introduce a distance-based tax on lorry traffic, a so-called road wear tax, which equalises the difference between road traffic and the more sustainable modes of transport and between Swedish and foreign hauliers. The tax should be lower where alternatives to road transport are lacking and steer towards more environmentally friendly lorries. At the same time, heavy trucks need to become more fossil-free. Electrification of regional transport and liquid biogas are some of the solutions we see before us. Climate change has been an important step from the government to contribute to the transition, and the government put forward in the budget bill support for regional electrification pilots with charging infrastructure for heavy-duty vehicles. In addition to the need for a climate shift for truck traffic, road safety, a good working environment and healthy competition also need to be promoted. In the last decade, measures such as fines for cabotage offences, complaints and clearer client liability have been introduced. Regulation of professional traffic, just as we have debated earlier here today, is done through cooperation at European level because transport is often cross-border. The mobility packages have presented new regulations and the first part was adopted this summer. However, compliance with laws and regulations requires controls. Checks need to be sufficiently comprehensive and effective. According to the Government, fair competition, order and justice are important in all modes of transport, but work on these issues needs to be strengthened, especially in the field of road haulage. According to the Government, controls in the field of road transport can be improved and made more effective, but also clients must assume their responsibilities and purchase transport from companies that comply with the applicable regulations. The Government considers that measures for fair competition and the fairest conditions for road transport also strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. In order to improve controls, the Government appointed a special investigator in 2019 to investigate precisely more effective checks on road traffic. That investigation is expected in the spring. The investigator shall identify and analyse the current control activities of the authorities in the field of professional road transport, including how and to what extent the checks are carried out and the impact they have on compliance with rules and thus on law enforcement, road safety, the environment, the working environment and fair competition. It is also intended to provide an international overview of how road traffic control activities have been designed in other countries in order to better comply with rules. The investigator will also propose measures to strengthen control activities and further improve compliance with rules, for example through new ways of working, effective use of technical opportunities, increased regulatory coordination and more exchange of information. The investigator shall also consider whether a change in the organisation for the control of road traffic may lead to an improvement in compliance with rules in terms of resource efficiency. Finally, the investigator shall submit proposals for a comprehensive control organisation, which will transfer certain data to an authority other than the one currently responsible or to a new authority, and propose directives for an implementation investigation. I am very much looking forward to the results of the investigation. Just as it has been debated here in the past, we need to look into things before we go to implementation. This is how practices in public operations in Sweden work in order for us to make wise and well-thought-out decisions. The government has also made a historic effort at the Police Authority. As is well known, the target is 10 000 more police workers, and that is a target that we reached halfway to in June. There have never been more police employees. I think it is important that the police authority prioritises control and compliance on the road, not least speed violations, which are a major problem. The Swedish Transport Agency believes that there have been improvements in compliance with the technical characteristics of vehicles, as well as in cargo securing, but deteriorations in speed compliance. The transport industry needs to become more sustainable from both a climate and a social perspective. The best conditions through clear rules, responsibility from the industry and effective and well-functioning control and compliance are needed. Transport needs to be moved to the more energy efficient and sustainable modes of transport trains and shipping. However, the truck will still have an important role to play in our transport, which is why truck transport needs to undergo a necessary change.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-963	Madam President, I would like Cycling is fantastic in every respect: no greenhouse gas emissions, no noise and minimal risk of contamination. The better health comes with it. There are therefore many good reasons why society should promote increased cycling. Unfortunately, cycling has not been seen as a means of transport in Sweden. This is also evident in infrastructure planning, which is what we are politically controlling. At best cycling is seen as an appendage to motorism. At worst, cycling is not visible at all. Neither is good enough. We need an active policy of increasing cyclism. Let me therefore take up a few suggestions from us in the Left Party on how we can make cycling easier and safer in the near future. We can take advantage of the pandemic. The pandemic we are in the midst of is, of course, appalling in many ways, but positive changes are also taking place at the moment. Cycling has in a short time emerged as a climate-smart and infectious way to get to and from work for those who still need to travel to and from work – and most actually do. Around the world we see how cities, regions and countries are investing in people cycling more. According to the European Cyclists Federation, more than SEK 10 billion has been invested in increased cycling since the outbreak of the pandemic in Europe, and 300 miles of new bicycle infrastructure has been built in European countries. In Paris, nine completely new cycle paths will be built from the city's suburbs into the city – the new cycle infrastructure is currently being built in the French capital. In Milan, Paris, London, Berlin and Barcelona – in many cities – roads, car spaces and parking spaces are currently being converted into space for walking and cycling. In London, reportedly, the world's largest car - free area has been built. Brussels has reduced its speed. It is also beneficial for walking and cycling. And much more is happening around the world right now. What has the government done to increase cycling in Sweden? Last autumn the government promised SEK 325 million for increased cycling, which will be paid out this year. But this is not enough, and it fades in an international comparison. More money needs to be invested in expanding the cycling infrastructure. Take it now during the pandemic when the interest in and the desire to ride a bike is so great! That is why we need to invest more in new bicycle infrastructure. The money indicated in the national infrastructure plan is simply not enough. There were previously two pronounced cycle paths, namely Märstastråket and Täbystråket, but they were deleted when the government finally presented the infrastructure plan that still applies. The Left Party also believes that we should set a concrete goal for increased cycling in Sweden. For example, we should have a target for cycling to make up 20% of all journeys by 2025. We also want to change the road law so that cycle paths can be built independently of an ordinary road. Here I would like to support the announcement contained in the report, which will soon be voted through in this House. After motions have been raised by, among others, the Left Party and several other parties, the Transport Committee now requires the Government to amend the Road Act so that bike paths can be built regardless of whether there is a road there or not. It will greatly simplify the development of new bicycle infrastructure in Sweden. How the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals can oppose this, moreover with reference to private property rights, is beyond my understanding. Why should the construction of bicycle roads be made more difficult? The Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals should respond to this in this House. Madam President, I would like We should also invest more in so-called step 1 and step 2 measures. It's about changing behavior and taking simple trimmings instead of building new ones. Step 1 and stage 2 measures should be financed from state resources, but they are not currently. There are lots of things that can be done here and now, such as temporary bike paths, information, signage, good, clean and illuminated bike racks, financial support for increased cycling, loan bikes etc. All these are examples of so-called Stage 1 and Stage 2 measures that should be financed by the State. We in the Left Party also want a reduced base rate in cities. Change the norm from 50 kilometers per hour down to perhaps 30 kilometers per hour. With reduced base speed, cycling and walking in our cities will be easier and safer. It was also something that the UN's road safety conference particularly raised when they gathered in Stockholm about a year ago. We also want it to be possible to take the bike on the train. I would therefore like to ask, Madam President, for the approval of Amendment No 8 by the Left Party, which deals with this very issue. In many other comparable countries – Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, to name a few – it goes without saying that you can take your bike on the train. But for some reason you can't do it in Sweden. We need to change that. Makes it easier to cycle towards one-way, and turn right towards red where it fits. Let us trust that our municipalities can make the decisions for their inhabitants and allow this for cyclists just where it suits them. Take into account cyclists in the construction of two-plus-one roads. Two-plus-one roads can be good from a motorist's perspective because it becomes safer and easier to get on those roads, but unfortunately the construction of two-plus-one roads often means building a barrier for pedestrians and cyclists if you do not take particular account of pedestrians and cyclists. This is not happening today, and so we in the Left Party want the Swedish Transport Administration to get new guidelines that will be about prioritising pedestrians and cyclists in the construction of a two-plus-one road. Madam President, I would like Several Members have raised the issue of electric scooters and electric scooters in the report. They can be good, but there's got to be order on the electric scooters. Here we should have a system for them to be a licensed activity. If you want to exhibit electric scooters for commercial purposes in a municipality, you should apply for a permit for this, just as if you want to set up a falafel wagon or a portable café. All of this is subject to authorisation, and so should the electric scooters. Today, electric scooters in some cities, such as Stockholm, have become a major obstacle to disabled people, pedestrians and cyclists. We need to get this right. Madam President, I would like Let us make the right decisions to make it easier for more people to ride their bikes. Cycling is good for the whole community. It is time-efficient, cheap, healthy, climate-smart and infectious. Today, we are taking an important step forward in demanding that the government change the road law in order to facilitate the construction of new bicycle routes. It's good and important. Let us then quickly continue to push through more bicycle reforms.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-981	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Trafik Committee's report TU3 Bicycle Questions, with 88 requests from the general period of exercise. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 6 in paragraph 3. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal. I would like to start by saying that it feels special to be in this House in the midst of the current pandemic, when the whole world is fighting covid ‐ 19. However, although the pandemic is one of the worst things that has happened to us, we see that the Corona crisis has led to more people rethinking and thinking and that more people are using new ways of transporting themselves. But, Madam President, we Social Democrats are not satisfied but want more people – young or elderly, living in cities or in rural areas, girls like boys – to be able to move around parts or the whole distance by bicycle even after the Corona crisis. In this respect, the Social Democratic-led government is clear: measures have been taken to increase cycling and also to strengthen the role of the cycle in social development. We already see that many people are happy to combine their trips with walking or cycling and public transport. We welcome this, as it is clear from the national cycling strategy that cycling should increase while road safety must be strengthened. In order to achieve this goal, we need to help each other and do even more together in order for the cycle to have exactly the place in society that is highlighted in the cycling strategy. In this work, the regions and municipalities have an important role, but also organisations such as Swedish Bicycle Cities and other bicycle organisations. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the issue of road law and land access. A majority of the committee parties want to go ahead with an announcement on the road law. I would like to point out that the question of soil access for the bicycle infrastructure has been discussed for several years. The Finnish Transport Administration has also investigated the matter in various reports. The Government has also paid attention to the issue and initiated a closer investigation. What I ask myself is precisely that the parties behind this so easily are prepared to give up ownership. Is this perhaps an election promise, or is it merely a populist proposal? The national cycle strategy highlights five areas of intervention that are the starting points for the government. Let me immerse myself in these areas and how the government works with them now and in the future. The first area is about raising the role of cycling in community planning. A holistic approach is needed in order to contribute at different levels to a broader view of infrastructure planning in our urban and urban areas, enabling more cycling to and from work and leisure activities. The transport system needs to be developed in interaction with other social functions, creating good conditions for accessibility and efficient travel and transport where cycling is an alternative. The second area is about increasing the focus on groups of cyclists. These include children, who are an important target group to promote increased and safe cycling. But new arrivals also need better conditions to learn how to ride a bike and gain a better understanding of traffic rules. The government is clear that further work should focus on developing a current picture of existing tourist and recreational routes, increasing knowledge of the characteristics of successful cycling routes and developing suggestions for how areas can be developed. There is also a need to develop targeted information and training materials. The third area is the promotion of a more functional and user-friendly infrastructure. In this area, the government is clear. Last October, the government decided to allow municipalities to set up so-called bicycle streets – this to promote cycling on mixed-traffic streets without excluding motor vehicle traffic. It is also necessary to examine whether, under certain conditions, it is possible to grant exemptions from the rules on stop-likes in the case of a red signal when the vehicle makes a right-hand turn, which would apply to all types of vehicle. We also want cycling to be made smoother, safer and more attractive. To do this, new innovative solutions in the form of new coatings, more adapted bicycle parks and more may be needed. I would also like to mention the issue of cycling on one-way streets, where the Minister has made it clear that it is possible to take solutions for cycling in both directions towards one-way traffic. But if it turns out that it is a concern and that changes are needed in this regard, he is also prepared to try it. I would also like to emphasise the importance of the so-called urban environment agreements, which were launched in 2015 and which aim to promote sustainable urban environments by, among other things, providing support to municipalities and regions. These urban environment agreements are based on the Government's cooperation agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals, where we are clear that the urban environment agreements will be developed to promote more child-friendly and sustainable urban environments. It is also pleasing that the Swedish Transport Administration states that the applications that have been received and granted include investments in cycling routes and other measures related to cycling. It's very funny. The fourth area is about promoting safe cycling. A number of measures are important to promote safe cycling, such as helmet use, maintenance and operation of cycle paths and safer vehicles. That is why it is good and important that the national plan includes investments in road safety-enhancing measures such as walking and cycling passages and gates. The aim is to take action where the potential for increased and safe cycling is greatest. This primarily involves investments within or between some 40 major urban areas that create coherent secure paths for mainly commuting to work and studies. It is also proposed to improve the maintenance of cycling routes along national and regional road networks, which are frequently used all year round. Another important measure concerns speed because cyclists are so-called vulnerable road users. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Government has commissioned Traffic Analysis to review the possibility of slowing down the speed of the city. Sweden has also highlighted in the Stockholm Declaration the issue of limiting speed to 30 kilometres per hour in areas where there is a high risk of death and serious injuries. The fifth and final area is the development of statistics and research. In this respect, I would particularly like to emphasise the importance of applying research in practice as well. The Social Democratic-led government contributed during the last parliamentary term to a national cycling centre at VTI in Linköping, for which we are pleased. Madam President, I would like I re-approve our reservation number 6, paragraph 3. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1003	Madam President, I would like I thank Abraham Halef for a committed speech on cycling. I fully agree with the potential that exists to increase cycling in Sweden. Just as Abraham was at the beginning, it is a special situation now during the pandemic, and we notice that people are prepared to change their behaviour. In many places you choose to cycle more because it is perceived as a safer and better way to travel. I have two questions for Abraham Halef. The first is: What has the government actually done during the pandemic to get people to cycle more? My second question concerns what Mr Halef raised about private property rights. In the report, a majority calls for the government to change the road law in order to make it easier to build bicycle routes without requiring direct access to motorway roads. That is what our proposal for an announcement is about. The Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals have objected to this, partly on the grounds that ownership must be taken into account in the construction of bicycle routes. I wonder what exactly this reservation means in this regard. Is private ownership to be taken into account only in the construction of bicycle routes? Or should it be the same process and methods of private ownership when building bicycle roads as when building motor traffic roads?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1008	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the questions, but I do not quite understand them. The Road Act applies to construction, operation and more of public roads. Cycling roads without direct connection to road roads are not designated as roads according to the road law, which means that it may be difficult to use land for a cycle path with the road law, since there are not the same possibilities for exploitation as for a public road. The various measures of the Road Act have been discussed for a long time, and the cycling strategy has also been pointed out. In various reports, the Finnish Transport Agency has also highlighted the issue and concluded that the law either needs to be amended or interpreted differently. As Jens Holm knows, we only had a drawing in committee in October. The issue has been analysed, and we have just received a report on the table.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1011	Madam President, I would like In Abraham Halef's speech, I heard a great deal of commitment to increased cycling and that it would be good if we cycle more. Unfortunately, however, I do not see any concrete initiatives from the government. In my opening speech, I mentioned the 325 million to be paid out this year, but with an infrastructure investment of 12 years of 700 billion SEK, 325 million is not very much. I see no more from the government, and I hear no more from Abraham Halef. With regard to the road law and the construction of bicycle routes, that is precisely why we have exercised that the road law needs to be amended so that a cycle path can be built regardless of whether there is a so-called functional connection with the regular road or not. One should simply be able to build a cycle path that should be able to be detached regardless of whether there is another road or not. That is why the objection of the Social Democrats, among others, is so perplexing. It refers to private ownership and that it must obviously have a special position in the construction of bicycle routes. I don't understand this, but Halef will have one more chance to explain it.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1014	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech and also in my reply, the issue needs to be prepared. This is a rather big issue that will have to take the time needed. We shouldn't make hasty decisions. I am not entirely sure that an update of the road law is needed. Of course, we need to provide conditions for cycling routes in the state road network, but at the same time there must be good interaction between municipalities, regions and governments. As I said, we need to take many different measures to make this a reality. We need to invest more in cycling, and we need to deliver more on the basis of the national cycling strategy. We look forward to this. I haven't been around that long, but I know that the current government has invested more in cycling than any other government. Ideal organisations can apply for grants, and there are initiatives in the urban environment agreements. There's money, so you've bet.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1018	Madam President, I would like We are now debating bicycle issues. Cycling has become increasingly important for many during the pandemic. Some see the bike as a good way to get out and move between digital meetings, and others have chosen the bike to and from work, school and other activities to avoid crowding in public transport. Even before the pandemic we could see an increased interest in cycling, but there is no doubt that the enthusiasm for cycling has shifted up in the current situation. During a year of distance meetings, digital hugs and cancelled celebrations, I see the increasing cycling as a little light in the dark. The increasing sedentary nature of both children and adults is a public health problem. In the long run, it can lead to obesity, lower quality of life and worse things. Of course, increasing cycling does not solve all the problems. But research shows that everyday exercise is an important part of long-term good health. Given this, cycling and its long-term prerequisites in urban planning will be important political issues. There is a clear link between the availability of safe and coherent cycling routes and people's willingness to cycle. The Moderates prioritise questions about cycling conditions and want to see a modern policy that promotes safe and safe cycling at all ages. Cycling tends to be forgotten when priority is given to large infrastructure projects. Large and important questions about roads, new rail traffic and the development of aviation take on the most of the media space, both politically and economically, due to its size. This means that there is legislation on bicycle issues that are old and need to be revised. Cycling should be a natural part of infrastructure planning, we think. One example of a lack of legislation today is the requirements of the Road Act, which gives the State exclusive rights to build a bicycle road directly connected to road intended for motor traffic. This makes it difficult for the development of coherent cycle paths that are logical. Problems have arisen at a number of different places in the country, including in my home county of Halland, where you have had to lead the bike paths in detours or stop them completely. I have mentioned in the past that there is a clear link between the availability of safe and coherent cycling routes and people's willingness to cycle. This is basically a matter of priority. Do you want Sweden to become a leading country for cycling or not? Madam President, I would like The committee proposes in the report a revision of the road law. It is good that steps are now being taken in the right direction. The road law is outdated at this point, and the development of cycling has undoubtedly re-run, or perhaps recycled, its existing wording many times over. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal for a decision under paragraph 3 on the revision of the road law. There are a number of examples of how to lift and secure cycling in the city. For example, experience from Denmark, Holland and the City of Stockholm shows that cyclists' right, under certain premises, to turn right towards red, increased accessibility and safety. Another example is geofencing, a digital geographical zone where vehicles can be controlled and vehicle access to zones limited. Experience shows that this makes transport more efficient and increases safety, not least for cyclists. All green light for cyclists has been shown to increase the safety and efficiency of cyclists at large intersections. This means that all cycling at a junction gets green light at the same time and that motor vehicles at the same time have red light. In these areas, investigations and intensified work are needed to make cycling a self-evident and safe part of urban transport. During the last decade, a market where the possibility of renting bicycles and electric scooters has emerged. This is fundamentally positive as it promotes public health, reduces congestion and increases people's mobility. However, there is a growing problem inside cities with bicycles and electric scooters that are left in the middle of roads and other inappropriate places. This makes accessibility difficult for many, which is serious, not least for elderly, disabled and blue light personnel. There is a need for clarification of the regulatory framework for rented bicycles and electric scooters. We all have a responsibility for the public space, and no one has more right to it than anyone else. That is why I would also like to support Amendment No 20.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1031	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by mentioning that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, we are only in favour of reservation 12 on the alignment of the regulatory framework for bicycle crossings and bicycle passages. Madam President, I would like Every year, according to Folksam, approximately 2,800 children are seriously injured so that they have to go to a hospital for care. Around 25 cyclists are killed. According to NTF, cyclists are the road user group that accounts for the largest number of seriously injured persons. More than 2,000 out of 4,200 seriously injured in traffic in 2018 were cyclists, and 226 cyclists were very seriously injured. The importance of cycling safe is something that needs to be learned from children's legs, and the Swedish Democrats have a motion that society should take a greater responsibility to teach children to ride a bike safely. A memory that many of us have, at least those of us who are over the years – I count myself in there – are the traffic schools, where you already in the age of five had to playfully trample around and learn traffic rules and how to act in traffic. Unfortunately, these kindergartens are a thing of the past, but it might be a good thing to start them up again. Madam President, I would like It is of the utmost importance that we reduce the number of injured and killed in bicycle traffic. Traffic rules should be easy to understand, but when it comes to the rules for bicycle passages and crossings, we can see that the different rules unfortunately point to the opposite. A high percentage of cyclists do not know that motorists should leave the cyclists preference at a bike pass but that cyclists should leave the motorists preference during a bike pass. Here, as stated in reservation 12, we want the regulatory framework to be reviewed and the rules harmonised so that they are equally obedient. It is suggested that cyclists should, in both cases, give preference to motorists when cyclists belong to the group of vulnerable road users. Regardless of which group to give priority, the regulatory framework needs to be aligned in order to increase safety and avoid misunderstandings – misunderstandings that in the worst case have a fatal or disabling outcome. Madam President, I would like Finally, it looks like we are getting a review of the Road Act on the construction of bicycle roads along state roads. It's not every day you can see the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party fighting on the same side, but suddenly it happens. I share Jens Holm's questioning of the position of the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals on this issue and have not quite understood the logic that has been raised here before. The Committee on Transport and Tourism's report includes that the Parliament commissions the government to come back with a proposal that makes it possible to establish free-range cycling routes without requiring direct access to roads. This would mean a boost for cycling as it can provide shorter roads to cycle but above all allow cycling routes to be built in a much nicer environment than along a busy road. I have an example from my own municipality, where large parts of the bike path between Tyringe and Hässleholm, which is relatively new, goes along road 21. It's a 100-way road, and you really have to look for a worse environment to cycle in. You never see anyone riding there, and I understand why. Had this route been located a bit from the road, it would have been more scenic, and it would probably have been more embarrassing. I very much welcome a change so that the Finnish Transport Administration can have the opportunity for greater flexibility in the construction of new bicycle routes. In order to make cycling attractive, simple and safe, it is important that good cycle paths and routes are taken into account when planning new residential areas. There is also a need for a continuous review of existing strings, but the municipalities must also take great account of this so that the accessibility of other vehicles does not suffer. One of the concerns is to park your bike in certain places. I myself have got my bike stolen at the station in Hässleholm, and I therefore do not park there without a good distance from there and walk the last part. I don't think I'm alone in my concern about putting the bike in some places. It shouldn't have to be like that. Today you can see in several locations how guarded bicycle parks are built. To be able to park your bike without having to worry about it being stolen is something that should be able to attract more people to ride to the train or to the bus. That is why we welcome more initiatives to secure and smooth scaffolding. Madam President, I would like We Swedish Democrats and the Moderates have a reservation regarding the coloring of cycle tracks. Several municipalities work with the coloring of cycle tracks, and this is a good way to make it clear that it is a cycle path that should be crossed. But here, too, we believe that it would be good if this were put on an equal footing throughout the country, so that the coloring does not diverge between different municipalities. It is not a cost issue if a cycle path is painted yellow or green. It is also not the regulatory framework around this that is surrounded by high costs. Therefore, we believe that the colour of the cycle paths should be equated in the country in order for it to become standardisation and clarity. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention the phenomenon of electric scooters. Few of us could probably see this coming ten years ago. Having the opportunity to rent an electric scooter at any time and anywhere in our major cities is of course positive, and it increases mobility; there is no question of that. But it also has a backside. We're seeing an increase in damage. Head injuries and fractures are common. The electric scooters are also very often parked in inappropriate places, and at worst they are thrown into a canal. There is a need for more stringent regulation of electric scooters as they make it more difficult for the visually impaired in particular. But they are also an obstacle to cleaning and snow clearance. They are also an ugliness in the cityscape when they are parked here and there or are thrown into a pile. That is why, Madam President, we believe that the government urgently needs to review the regulatory framework for electric scooters.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1043	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the bicycle report, and I wanted to explain the entrances and positions of the Center Party. The bike takes less space than the car. The cycle also does not generate emissions and, at the same time, is good for public health. We from the Center Party want to point out that more and more people are discovering the benefits of the cycle for accessibility. The bike offers many advantages, but cyclists also face many challenges. Therefore, the Center Party believes that it is important to increase and improve the accessibility of bicycles by building more local and regional cycle paths and so-called cycle highways as well as reducing barrier effects from crossing tracks and roads. The cycle has also in this difficult time with the coronapndemine made it possible for more people to choose the bike to travel and thereby reduce the collective travel and thus help to reduce the risk of infection. The Center Party would also like to stress that it is important to review the need for measures that enable cycling throughout the country. In traffic planning, cyclists and pedestrians must be given a safer place. Being able to transport by bicycle is important for future sustainable urban development. It is important that during the training period in community planning and correspondingly, great importance is attached to thinking about the cycle perspective in the planning. One issue that is important in this context is that cyclists, like motorists, need a uniform and clear signposting that facilitates orientation on the road. The Center Party would therefore like to stress the importance of government authorities working together with municipal authorities to ensure that the signs are implemented and made uniform and the same throughout the country. Madam President, I would like One third of our trips are less than 5 kilometres, and then the bike is often a good alternative. Today, just under 10% of our journeys are by bicycle. We can all see that interest in the bike as a means of transport has increased. The Center Party would therefore like to emphasise that good cycling trails and better winter maintenance on the bike paths would significantly increase cycling. Increased cycling would also be good for the environment and health and for reducing congestion in our cities. Madam President, I would like We note that it is the Road Act that regulates construction, operation and more of public roads. Cycling roads without direct connection to road roads are not designated as roads according to the road law, which means that it may be difficult to use land for bicycle roads with the road law and that it is not the same expropriation possibilities as for public roads. The question of soil access for bicycle infrastructure has therefore been discussed for several years. In various reports and memos, the Finnish Transport Agency has highlighted various aspects and stated that either a legislative amendment or a different interpretation of the Road Act may be required. As recently as October 2020, the Finnish Transport Agency underlined that a possible revision of the Road Act is a major issue that should be analysed and dealt with in special order. The Center Party would like to point out that the issue of expropriation is important to note. Within the framework of the substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, the parties have agreed that the proportion of people travelling by bicycle should increase but also that private ownership should be protected and strengthened. It is important to stress that the ownership of bicycle roads is taken into account and that this issue should therefore be taken into account if changes to the Road Act are to be made in the future. The Government's decision of 31 May 2018 on the establishment of the national cross-road transport infrastructure plan for the period 2018-2029 states that the Finnish Transport Agency will investigate whether, and if so how, the question of ground access is an obstacle to the creation of bicycle routes or in the implementation of regional bicycle plans and, if necessary, submit proposals for regulatory changes. In addition, Sweden's municipalities and regions should be involved in this work, so that municipalities and regions can be involved. At the committee meeting on 10 December 2020 in the Transport Committee, Trafikverket informed about the ongoing work related to the Government's mandate. The work includes identifying the shortcomings and needs and developing proposals for action. The Swedish Transport Administration believes that a change in the Road Act is not at all necessary but that cooperation with municipalities on, for example, detailed plans can make agreements with landowners so that bicycle routes can be built without the need to expropriate land or for the state to force land to be acquired so that ownership is violated. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that the Center Party is in favour of more cycling and that the bike should be used even more. However, with regard to the last issue of strengthening property rights linked to the Road Code, we would like to stress that property rights must not be disregarded. I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1053	Madam President, I would like If I'm going to simplify the Center Party's reasoning a little bit – Mikael Larsson is happy to correct me if I have understood that wrong – I can summarize it as wanting more bike paths but not if it somehow compromises private ownership. Then remember that when infrastructure is built there are often very good solutions for how to draw roads. It is in extremely extreme cases that the state can forcibly redeem land, i.e. take land and then pay compensation to the landowner. This may be important in order for the infrastructure we want to be able to be built. For this we have a system in which roads are built for motorised vehicles, i.e. car roads. Now we want to change the road law so that you can build a bike path between Lund and Malmö, for example, whether there is a road there or not. The reasoning of the Center Party seems to be that it should not be possible to do so, because if this goes against private ownership, private ownership is more important. I would therefore like to ask Mikael Larsson and the Center Party whether your proposal means that we should have a special arrangement for the construction of bicycle paths that do not apply to the construction of other roads. Should private ownership be more important when considering the construction of a bicycle road than when considering the construction of a road?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1057	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the question. The entrance to private ownership is that we should always protect and strengthen property rights, whether we build roads, bicycle routes, railways or new power and electricity lines. All of this is social planning and hugely important for us to achieve. I have constant contact with my municipality of residence, and I have a brilliant example from there. National road 41 should be extended between Björketorp and Salmisaari, and all landowners affected are in favour of extending the road. They also see very much that it will be a walk- and bike path, but they want it adjacent to the road. They do not want it to be laid anywhere else along the route and take even more land for farmers. When we build new infrastructure – whether it is a cycle path, a road or something else – it is also important to bear in mind that we have a food strategy to be achieved. We want to produce more food and we need it. Therefore, property rights should be protected in everything we work with, and it should be taken into account as an important aspect. We should be careful to go in and expropriate too much so that the state takes too much. Instead, we will find the best possible solutions in the most flexible way, whether it concerns roads, railways, bicycle routes or power lines. As far as this is concerned, we believe that it is just as the Finnish Transport Administration points out, namely that it is better to put forward and work on detailed plans so that a good solution can be found as smoothly as possible that more people can cycle, that we can have more bike routes and that private ownership is maintained and strengthened.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1062	Madam President, I would like The road law is as old as I, almost 50 years old, and on many occasions our regions, municipalities and cyclist organisations have pointed to problems with it. The Road Act says that bicycle paths can only be built if there is a functional connection with a motorised road, i.e. with a road. In fact, the Finnish Transport Administration has several times been commissioned to investigate this issue, and the Swedish Transport Administration does not want to do anything about it. I think it is rather a matter of the Trafikverket not having much experience of building free-standing bike paths and perhaps the level of ambition is not very high in this area. That's why we need to change the road code. It simply needs to be modernised so that we can build more cycle paths – and build them independent of motorised roads. What I still do not understand about the Centre Party's objection, Madam President, is whether you want any special order for building bicycle paths. Now it sounded like we should strengthen private ownership in all respects: when we build electricity lines, when we build rail and when we build new motorways. Is that what the Center Party means? As a consequence, does private property rights want to extend the development of other infrastructure as well? In that case, I'll get it together. But why else would private ownership only be strengthened when it comes to the development of bicycle infrastructure?
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1065	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! Private ownership is very important to protect and strengthen in all respects, regardless of what we will work with. We are facing major challenges. We are currently working on the national infrastructure plan, and there is a lot of infrastructure that will need to be built and renovated. We are faced with the need to build new main roads, which I know Jens Holm and the Left Party very much want. When we build new infrastructure – whether it is roads, railways or, as in this case, cycle paths – we need to build it in such a smart way that we do not engage too much in private ownership. I take the example from home, where people as residents and landowners are very interested and want a new national road. You see the need for good infrastructure, but you want it built in such a smart way that it does not take too much land. It is extremely important to press for all issues relating to infringements of private property rights and private landowners: no matter what we do, we should ensure that we build the infrastructure in such a smart way that we do not take too much land. So we can also link that we have a food strategy to be achieved and that we want to produce more food. That's how we get it together. We want to continue developing the infrastructure and building cycle paths, and we want to produce more food – but we build it in such a smart way that ownership is not ignored.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1069	Madam President, I would like The bike is an excellent vehicle that provides both exercise and nature experiences while at the same time being able to move from point A to point B. Unfortunately, we see that there are problems with the development of new cycle paths, and above all between different municipalities. It is therefore positive that the Parliament supports the committee's view that the government should come back with proposals that allow the construction of free-range bicycle routes, without requiring direct access to roads intended for motor traffic, and that this should be announced to the government. We are in favour of this. Madam President, I would like We would like to stress that cycling is an excellent way to travel. Unfortunately, we see that many children learn to ride a bicycle late. We believe that cycling needs to be promoted among children and young people as well as among new Swedes. In many parts of the country, projects are underway to reach new target groups in order to increase cycling. We have noted that in a number of municipalities projects are being carried out that focus on road safety and on children and adults learning how to cycle. In our opinion, promoting children's cycling and educating children in road safety strengthens children's health and increases understanding of the laws that apply to traffic. We believe that we should do more to encourage individuals to learn how to ride a bicycle. According to our assessment, early knowledge of road safety and increased awareness of the dangers of traffic lead to fewer accidents. Madam President, I would like We want to emphasise that cycling has a great development potential with good environmental, climate and health effects. We would like to stress that it is very important to continue the work to improve the safety of cyclists in traffic and that more strategic preventive work is needed to reduce the number of bicycle accidents. In particular, we would like to point out that the aim of all road safety work is that no one should die or be seriously injured in traffic. We can see that cyclists do not top the statistics on the number of fatalities in traffic but that there were still 17 deaths in 2019, which is far too many. When it comes to serious and moderate injuries, the bike is the most dangerous vehicle type in traffic. The most common cause of serious injuries in cyclists is single accidents. We believe that the municipalities bear a great responsibility for taking measures to facilitate cycling. We believe it is important for municipalities to work together to find common solutions to make it easier for cyclists. Municipalities that maintain roads and, among other things, repair gravel and leaves can make a big difference. It is also important that cyclists and pedestrians share the track as little as possible. We believe that there is reason to strengthen the road safety knowledge of cyclists. The importance of helmets needs to be stressed because head injuries are the most common in the case of serious or fatal accidents in cyclists. We would also like to remind you that along more and more roads there are very well-functioning cycle paths. But in many places cyclists still share roads with motorists, and in this context road safety needs to be improved. This is particularly true when cars need to overtake cyclists. It is also important that the police have the resources to follow up the regulations. In conclusion, we believe that the road safety of cyclists must be promoted. One such measure is to introduce a speed-dependent distance condition of at least one and a half metres for motor vehicles that overtake cyclists. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, we only agree to reservation 10.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1076	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU3 Bicycle Questions. The Pandemin has hit the transport industry very hard, with a sharp drop in demand. Here the cycle has been a strong exception, as it naturally provides the opportunity to avoid the risk of infection. You are out all the time instead of being in a limited space, you can keep physical distance from other people and you don't have to touch surfaces. Let us hope that the interest in cycling lasts after the pandemic! The benefits of people cycling make the Liberals want to make it easier for cyclists. A very important condition for easy cycling is that there are continuous safe routes and that these are continuously maintained. There are too many unimagined traffic environments that make it difficult for cyclists. It is, of course, about the complex infrastructure of our major cities, but it is also about the lack of coherent planning that has allowed the standard of a cycle path to deteriorate at a municipal border. It doesn't make sense. We want to see more efforts on coherent regional bike paths to make it easier to cycle longer distances. The Road Act's texts on the construction of bicycle roads have been discussed over a number of years. Cycling roads without direct connection to road roads are not designated as roads according to the road law, which means that it may be difficult to use land for a cycle path with the road law. Nor is there the same possibility of using land as there are for public roads. An investigation that we decided on in the national plan 2018 is now reviewing the obstacles that exist for the construction of bicycle roads. I did not therefore believe that there was a need for an initiative from the committee on this issue. The Finnish Transport Agency was also in the Transport Committee on 10 December and explained that there are a number of different solutions to the problem of building bicycle roads on municipal land. We therefore want to await this investigation. Furthermore, I was surprised that ownership was not highlighted in the majority's proposal, as ownership should be taken into account when assessing possible changes to the road law in order to facilitate the construction of bicycle routes. Liberals also want to increase the possibility of taking the bike on the commuter train. By combining public transport and cycling, more people can leave the car standing and thereby make a contribution to the environment and reduce congestion on the roads. The electric scooter is subject to much discussion, but just like a vehicle to transport to and from public transport, it is very interesting from a door-to-door perspective. It takes little space on the train and then takes you smoothly the shorter distances from start to finish. We in the Liberals are in favour of the niche of electric kick bikes in mobility, but a regulatory framework needs to be investigated in order to avoid the negative effects that exist and that, among other things, our major cities have experienced. The success of pedestrians, not least older people and people with disabilities, is crucial for us here. We believe that the Government must urgently ensure that the necessary clarifications of the regulatory framework for electric scooters are implemented in order to minimise both personal injury and parking problems. Madam President, I would like Cyclists are unprotected in the traffic environment. Separate bike paths are available in many places, but at the same time cyclists often share the roadway with motorists. Road safety needs to be improved, not least when cyclists are passed over on major roads. Sweden should take the lead and introduce a speed-dependent distance when overtaking. The government should entrust the relevant authority with the urgent task of investigating and introducing a speed-dependent distance condition of at least one and a half metres for motor vehicles overtaking cyclists. Such a rule would signal that there are more factors than just distance – many countries have only one and a half meters. It is important to show that more factors than just distance affect road safety and that risk compensation is required in case of overtakings. At the same time, I would like to stress that it must be easy to remember these rules in order for us to have good compliance. Technology is developing rapidly. We see a constant development of the bike concept, not least with the new electric bicycles and electric scooters. Liberals are in favour of this development, but at the same time road safety must be safeguarded. It is therefore important that research on different aspects of cycling receives increased support so that we can understand how cycling can be facilitated and how we can avoid an increasing number of injuries to cyclists in the future as interest in cycling increases. The knowledge-raising work of the cycling centre should also continue to be supported in order to ensure continuity of work. With these words, I would like to say that we in the Liberals support all our reservations, but I would only ask for the approval of reservation 16.
i-24297cb97b3f7a10-1089	Madam President, I would like The bike path should no longer be an appendage to the road – we will now change that! The Green Party has long struggled to bring about a change to the Road Act so that it will be possible to build state cycle roads independent of car roads. Today, at last, we have a majority to address an announcement to the government on this issue, and so some of my motion is also approved. That is, to say the least, a win for all of us who love to ride a bike. I am pleased that there is finally a majority in favour of this proposal, which we from the Green Party have been pushing for a very long time. The bike is not supposed to be an appendage to the car. Of course, cycle paths should be able to be built so that they get a logical and gene path for cyclists. This is a proposal that will make it easier to build good cycling routes in rural areas. The Road Act means that cycling routes outside urban areas must in principle always be placed next to the public road for motor traffic. By the road law's definition of road and the requirements for functional connection and transport, the possibility of getting smooth and logical cycling paths is destroyed. We need to be able to build bike paths independent from car roads – it's safer, smarter and cheaper. It benefits both the motorist and the cyclist. The bike should not be an appendage to the car – it is obvious! Now we expect the Minister for Infrastructure to initiate the necessary processes to change this so that it will be easier to build good cycle paths in rural areas. We find it strange that our government partner, the Social Democrats, wishes to reject this proposal on the grounds of ownership. Thus, they think that the right of individual landowners to prevent cycle path is more important than that we should have the opportunity to build good cycle paths for everyone's benefit. This is a right that only exists when it comes to bicycle routes – not when it comes to car routes. The fact that our cooperation parties the Center Party and the Liberals are of this opinion is not surprising, just boring. The Centre Party, which often wants to promote itself as a party for those who look after the countryside, therefore does not want to support a proposal that can provide better cycling routes in rural areas. They are now clearly showing that the question of cycling is not a priority for them. The wordings contained in the January agreement to protect and strengthen property rights are in a different context – a context that deals with forest protection and that the appropriations for payments for protected land should be sufficient for this. We believe that these wordings do not apply to bicycle infrastructure. Cycling is amazing. You get fresh air, exercise and better health while helping to reduce climate-damaging emissions. It can be a very smooth way forward, at least if there is good bicycle infrastructure. A good cycling infrastructure is crucial to get more people to start cycling. A good infrastructure is achieved through resources, surface area and accessibility. Therefore, more investment is needed in good cycling infrastructure both in municipalities and from the state to enable cycle paths between towns, for these roads are usually state-owned. The Green Party has been the driving force behind the urban environment agreements, the government co-financing of 1 billion a year offered to municipalities for investments in bicycle infrastructure, public transport or sustainable freight transport solutions. We believe that this pot should be expanded. Therefore, we are pleased with the special cycle effort made in the budget bill, where the government both increased the funds to urban areas especially weighted to bikes and added resources to the Finnish Transport Agency for State Cycle Routes. However, this temporary initiative needs to be followed up with a more comprehensive and long-term effort in the forthcoming national transport infrastructure plan. We also want to make it easier for Trafikverket to work with so-called step one and two measures according to the four-step principle. The four-step principle is a method of testing which measures are appropriate to achieve good resource management and not to make large infrastructure investments unnecessarily. The Swedish Transport Agency has been criticised for not testing and implementing measures within steps one and two, including the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the four-step principle. The Government has an ambition to use the four-step principle. The application of the principle could justify greater efforts to increase bicycle traffic, in particular if steps one and two were applied more frequently. The availability of bicycles also needs to be ensured in the case of renovations and new constructions of roads. Unfortunately, redevelopment of roads can often mean less accessibility for bicycles. When state roads are rebuilt to increase the safety of car traffic with meeting separated files and higher speeds, the possibility of cycling along the road often disappears. Even in the case of new construction of state roads, measures to create accessibility for bicycles are lacking. The Green Party wants requirements to be made for improved accessibility for cyclists and bicycle traffic during renovation and new construction of roads. The Green Party also wants to see a national target to increase the proportion of bicycles. There is a need for traffic planning where the cycle is really a priority. Many municipalities and regions have their own objectives and plans for increased cycling, but such targets and plans are lacking at national level. The Green Party therefore wants to see both a national target for increased cycling and a plan for how cycling will increase. Objectives are important for steering and directing the work and allocation of resources by the authorities and should not be underestimated. With such a goal, it will also be natural to simplify bicycle rules, both for cycling towards one-way and for exceptions that allow cyclists to cycle against red at right turn and all-green. Unfortunately, we have a situation in Sweden where children and young people cycle less and less. According to Trafikanalys report The development of cycling in Sweden in 1995–2014, children aged 6-14 years cycled 42 per cent shorter distances now than in the mid-1990s, and young people and adults aged 15–24 cycled 46 per cent shorter distances. Cycling today is on average 30% lower in primary schools and 60% lower in residential areas compared with 25 years back. In parallel with the decrease in cycling, statistics from the Public Health Agency show that too few children reach the recommended level of physical activity. In order to create good habits, it is important to establish an active lifestyle early on. Active mobility is a way to make exercise and movement part of everyday life. The bike is then a means of transport that gives children both greater freedom of movement and more physical activity. If children learn early to make cycling part of their everyday life, the likelihood is that they will cycle and be physically active even later in life. But a prerequisite for children to have the opportunity to cycle more is actually safe bike paths to schools, preschools and leisure activities. As a parent, I myself know how insecure it may feel to ride a bicycle with my child in a traffic environment that does not feel safe and secure. Around 400 000 people cycle as a form of exercise and as part of their leisure interest. Many of these also participate in various sports races and cycling competitions around the country. In addition, they are more likely to commute, even longer distances, by bicycle. That, of course, is a major public health gain. Unfortunately, there have been a lot of problems with applying for a permit to arrange competitions. To make it easier for the country's cycling clubs, it needs to be easier to arrange both sports races and competitions. And knowledge of the conditions of cycling sport needs to be improved by the relevant authorities in order for organizers of both small and large races to have confidence that assessments of applications are tested in a legally secure and equivalent manner throughout the country. I would like to conclude by saying that many people have discovered the excellence of the cycle now during the pandemic. I urge everyone to continue to keep their cycle habit even when the pandemic eventually fades. As politicians, we have a responsibility to try to help create good conditions for cycling by investing more in good cycling infrastructure and good conditions for cycling throughout Sweden. The Green Party wants to see a core road network for cycling in Sweden. We believe that this creates the best possible conditions for maintaining the good cycle will.
