i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-0	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me how to achieve the child's best in concrete terms through the gender neutralisation of the parental code and the fact that several adults should be given legal responsibility for the child that the government has given instructions to investigate. He has also asked Minister Åsa Lindhagen if she will act to increase the prioritisation of the existing legislative proposals and the problems with the parental code that can be seen in SOU 2020:63, so that the implementation of these proposals is given equal priority by the Government. That interpellation has been handed over to me. Parenting is an important part of life for many people. Parental legislation needs to evolve in line with society and be able to cope with different ways of having a child and starting a family. The government has been working for several years to modernise family law. Work is done with the best interests of the child in focus. The Government has, among other things, implemented several measures to provide more opportunities to become parents. We have also reformed the adoption rules and set up an investigation to expand the possibilities of making foreign parenting applicable in Sweden. Soon the government will propose new rules on custody, parenthood and paternity investigations. Last but not least, this government has ensured that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is now Swedish law. The Government's efforts to modernise family law legislation continue. Just before Christmas, the investigation that Mikael Eskilandersson brings up was set up in his interpellation. It is a long-awaited investigation, and the issues to be investigated are urgent. The fact that legislation should not distinguish between persons according to gender and sexual orientation without weighty reasons is fundamental. It is also important that children's relations with their social parents are given attention. The investigation should consistently have a child rights perspective in the analysis being carried out. In order for the rights of the child to have an impact in practice, work on modernising family law needs to be continued. The government will continue to work actively to ensure that Sweden has legislation that is modern and that in all respects is based on the best interests of the child.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! It is always interesting to hear how the Government can combine two interpellations with two different questions and then not answer any of them. How children are better off with a gender-neutral parental code may not be a simple question to answer. The truth is that children are hardly affected at all if the text of the law says It is a non-problem for children, and I do not really have a problem with these texts being adjusted if it does not become the worse for the masses of children today. The second issue – why an investigation of the Parental Code does not receive clear directives to resolve the conflicts between the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Parental Code – is of much greater importance. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is currently a law in Sweden. Yet it is clear that Sweden does not live up to everything in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We do not give all children the rights they have under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In fact, I do not understand how one can ignore the inclusion of a correction of these aspects when setting up an investigation that has the task of rewriting the parental code. The previous investigation pointed out the problems clearly but did not provide any answers as to how they could be solved. Reasonably, then, a new investigation that has the task of rewriting the Parental Code could provide solutions for how the Convention on the Rights of the Child is to have a real impact. A rounding of our social services in the larger municipalities with a question whether the officials were now informed that they should think about the Convention on the Rights of the Child gave the answer: No, it has not affected our internal guidelines. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is and remains a placard policy if it is not to mean anything in practice. The government has ignored the inclusion of children's rights and their right to parents in the investigation. Instead, the government has not lost the chance to bring the adult perspective, where parenthood and everyone's right to children are in focus. More opportunities to become a parent and more parents than two are not children's perspectives but clearly adult perspectives. In the past, the government has made it possible for single women to inseminate, which in practice removes a parent from the child completely. But that is not enough. According to the government, even more people need to be able to become parents. When we other parties think about how to improve the quality of parents through increased efforts on parental education and support for parents in different ways, while preferably seeing that one might be able to prevent inappropriate having children, the government does exactly the opposite. The government invests in quantity instead of quality: Everyone should be entitled to children. If you can't get them yourself, the government will fix it, or you can take advantage of surrogate mothers in vulnerable countries. And more new social parents for all children instead of support and help for existing parents. It's quantity instead of quality. I do not think that children's situation in Sweden is getting better because the government is trying to give children more parents than they have by making up new concepts such as Morgan Johansson himself points out the importance of social parents being noticed in the parental code, which I find difficult to see any advantage with. The comitology directive even refers to giving social parents legal responsibility for the child. Now I hope that the investigator will understand that more parents are inappropriate, but it has happened in the past that investigations have proposed inappropriate changes.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-14	Madam President, I would like At first it was a bit difficult to understand what Mikael Eskilandersson was really after. In his interpellations, he mixes all the questions into a mess. In the end, you wonder if it's just some kind of seminary exercise that he's after. But I can pick up the questions here one by one. To begin with, one can surely say that the starting point for children in general in Sweden is very good. There are even many evaluations showing that Sweden is among the best countries in the world for children to grow up in. It is not a coincidence, but it is a result of many years of reform work, not least social democratic, where the starting point has always been that children are individuals of their own with their own inviolable rights. They are not just some sort of appendage to the family or to the adults, which is the conservative starting point. We've broken that vision a long time ago. What has formed the basis for our reform work has been a progressive approach, in which children are their own individuals with their own rights. For example, we were the first in the world to ban aga. We have better childcare facilities than any other country, I dare say. We probably have the world's most generous parental insurance. All these are important social democratic reforms in order for Sweden to be one of the world's best countries for children to grow up in and that it should remain that way. The latest reform was precisely to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law, and it came in 2020. And here is Mikael Eskilandersson, who is evil about whether or not we follow it. My God, the Swedish Democrats voted against that reform! You did not want the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law. How can one in one breath be against it being Swedish law and in the next breath complain and ask whether Sweden is following it or not? In fact, I think Mikael Eskilandersson should answer that. Then it is not true that we have not carried out a review to see how Sweden relates to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That's exactly what we've done. We linked a special investigation to these issues, and the investigation submitted its report in November 2020. The investigator went through this to see how Swedish legislation relates to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The report concluded that Sweden essentially complies with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, it also points to some issues that it believes should be further reviewed. There are things that that investigation thinks should be changed. That also applies to family law. One such thing, Madam President, is that a court today cannot judge joint custody if both parents are against joint custody, although joint custody would have been the best thing for the child. A Swedish court cannot do that today. The investigation suggests that this should be changed. Another point is that it is too unclear when it comes to the child's right to speak in custody disputes. That's what the investigation points to. Fortunately, with regard to both these points, we now have a basis for drawing up such legislative amendments. It comes from the investigation called See the Child! ................................................................. There we are now in the final stages of the processing process. Soon we will be able to go to Parliament to make this type of change so that we can live up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child even better. But again, Madam President, it is not good enough to do this. It has itself voted against the Convention on the Rights of the Child becoming Swedish law. Then it is not good enough to start accusing the government of not following those very rules in the next breath.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-23	Madam President, I would like We can start with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is actually a convention that Sweden has signed. I and my party, the Swedish Democrats, have never opposed that Sweden should sign the Convention on the Rights of the Child, nor that we should comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, there is some difference between having the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a convention to be followed and introducing it as a direct law. Our main criticism of introducing it as a direct law was that it is not an adapted legal text that acts as a law, but it is adapted as a convention to be followed if you have signed it. We had an obligation to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child even before it became Swedish law because we had signed it. Making conventions into legislation is problematic because of the dual nature of legislation. The question then is which legislation is superior to the other, because that legislation does not fully work together with Swedish legislation. This has also been pointed out in the report 2020:63. There we have been able to read that there were several shortcomings, especially in terms of children's perspective and children's rights to their family and parents. Children have a natural right to both their parents if the parents are married, but if the parents are not married, the child does not have the same right to both their parents. Why make that difference? There is one thing I have raised in several interpellations before. I know that Morgan Johansson usually puts it as a clear father or fatherhood perspective, but I mean it's actually a child perspective. The child's right to both of his parents is a child's perspective in my world. I don't see children as an appendage to adults. On the contrary, I believe that children are always entitled to their parents. But I do not believe that parents are entitled to their children. It is not the children in Sweden who have problems with the parental code calling people father or mother according to which germ cells they contributed to conception. Instead, it is more a question of the government trying, in the ordinary order, to maximise its vote by responding to the LGBTQ movement with changes that do not really have much practical significance. I believe that changes to the legal text should only be made to improve interpretation and change the content, not because someone in the government believes that the words in the law are old-fashioned. Other laws, such as the Commercial Code, still contain words such as daler when there is talk of financial penalties or compensation. I've never heard anyone complain about it. On the contrary, it seems to me that there is a point to the fact that we have an old legislation that has never had to be amended because it still works. There is a point in changing the parental code because the text has become messy and full of new references. My party has also pointed this out on an earlier occasion. But it's not the same as starting to make up other words in the actual text of the law. In an interview in SVT, Åsa Lindhagen particularly pointed out children living in families where there are more adults than two and where more than two take parental responsibility. I would have liked to have this more developed, but now the question has been moved to Morgan Johansson, and he may not know what Åsa Lindhagen means by her opinion. How common are families with more adults than two? Three out of four children in Sweden grow up in families made up of mother, father and children – that is 75 per cent. This is the reality even though the government's representatives are doing their best to paint this as an outmoded and out-of-date way of looking at the family. Is it really wrong to take around 75 percent of the children in Sweden as a starting point?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-32	Madam President, I would like No, but legislation must work for everyone, even in a modern environment where things have changed. Mikael Eskilandersson must understand this, too. Let me first conclude the point concerning the Convention on the Rights of the Child. First, the Swedish Democrats vote against the Convention on the Rights of the Child becoming Swedish law. In the next breath, Mikael Eskilandersson complains that we do not comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. He has pointed out legislation that is not in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I say then: Yes, but we have set up an investigation to see what we need to change or what things in our legislation need to change. I have said that we are prepared to make those changes and that a bill on a legislative amendment on some important points of family law is actually on its way to Parliament. It does not make sense, Madam President, to be against the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is Swedish law and to complain about the government in the next breath, when we have implemented it, because it does not live up to the decisions that the Swedish Democrats were against. Actually, it doesn't work, logically. Now I understand more that Mikael Eskilandersson was squeezed into this whole debate. It is not about what reforms we should make to further improve children's rights. He keeps returning to gender neutrality, homosexuality, same-sex marriage and same-sex relationships. In fact, I think that is where the Swedish Democrats are squeezed. You cannot accept – or you find it difficult to accept – that homosexuals are now also parents in Sweden. Homosexuals have children. That is why we must have legislation to cover those situations. That is why, among other things, we need to have a review of the parental code and make it gender neutral. But it is also about looking at other issues that may be relevant. The parenting beam is from the 50's. It has been patched and fixed on many occasions and many times since then. It must be understood, however, that family formation is different now than it was in the 1950s. Divorces are much more common now. As I said, it is now much more common for homosexuals to have children than it was back then. Then we must be prepared to modernise legislation so that it works for all parents and for all family formations, including in a modern world. It is not a question of pitting different family formations against each other, it is a question of having legislation that works for all situations. This is what the Swedish democrats are basically finding difficult to accept. You dream back to a time when everything was based on the nuclear family. You find it hard to accept that reality no longer looks quite like that. The homophobia that characterized the old society we have now settled right away for all time. The norm based on the nuclear family has also changed. Many people, especially women, were locked in destructive marriages. In those days, they had no other choice, simply. We have also been able to break this gradually, on the basis that we should remain in a relationship of free will and not of coercion. When it comes to divorce, care must be taken to have legislation that takes precedence over all these situations and has the best interests of the child in mind. You cannot walk around thinking that you can reverse the trend so that you can again prevent divorces, for example, or homosexuals having children. The old conservative view has been broken with us a long time ago. No, parental legislation and family policy need to be modernised to keep up with the modern world.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-44	Madam President, I would like For me, it is not conservative to stand up for children's rights to both their parents. I can only appeal to the government to actually rethink and bring children's rights to their real parents into the investigation. The inquiry into social parents is only one way to sneak more parents than two into Swedish law. It is extremely serious and can have a major negative impact on children in particular if it is implemented. What the government calls being at the forefront and leading the development of family policy is, in fact, an untested attempt, in which children are allowed to act as guinea pigs in the fantasy world of the Social Democrats. What will probably happen if the socialist dream of many parents becomes reality is that responsibility for the children is erased. Twice as many parents do not become twice as responsible; on the contrary, no one takes responsibility. This, in turn, causes the children to suffer. A large part of the comitology directive is devoted precisely to the possibility of having several so-called social parents, and it is clear that it can also be about transferring some of the legal responsibility for the child. I think good parents are capable of determining which adult contacts their children feel good about and which they do not feel good about. Now I can only hope that the investigation does not fall for the government's experiment but stands up for the children so that the proposal on social parents is scrapped. Children are entitled to their two parents, but parents are not entitled to children.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-48	Madam President, I would like As far as this is concerned with more guardians, whom I understand Mikael Eskilandersson is after, it is a lie if one claims that the investigation would have a mission to have more guardians. In fact, it is rather the case that the investigation points to the risks precisely with more guardians. However, the investigation takes height because there may be situations in the modern world where other adults in the child's vicinity have a very important function for the child. For example, it can be a situation where you have separated paths and got a new relationship, and the child has got a bonus mom or a bonus dad. Then a question can be what bonus mom or dad should get for information about how the child is doing, for example, so that you can be a support for the child in everyday life. It is such a question that one can look at, and I would say that it is in support and good for the child if there are additional adults who can take responsibility in that situation. Putting it against the rights of the biological father or mother, I think, is completely wrong. Again: The starting point for the investigation in this section is the child's best interests and being able to work for the child's best interests in a modern environment and in a modern context. Madam President, I would like I think this is about the fact that the Swedish Democrats find it difficult to accept that we no longer live in the 1950s, that even same-sex couples now have children and that we must have legislation that works for that situation. Today divorce is much more common than it was before, which of course there are both pros and cons with, but I know that for very many there were very big cons with the old norm. That is why we must have legislation that is modern and that works in a modern world. That is what we are now sketching.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-53	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to improve the situation of the K3 recruits in Karlsborg. She has also asked me if I can do anything to ensure that the agency investigates these events properly and then, if necessary, takes action to prevent the problems from continuing. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked me if I have any plans to improve the organisational culture within the Swedish Armed Forces. Finally, she has asked me that I am satisfied with the gender equality work that has been going on for many years within the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces, as well as other public and private employers, will work towards a working environment that is inclusive and free of discrimination, harassment and violations. The Agency has an obligation to investigate and take action against harassment. All personnel within the Swedish Armed Forces, whether they are employed, totally defence-related or voluntary, have the right to a work environment characterised by equal treatment and free from violations. The systematic work environment work within the Swedish Armed Forces involves both employers and employees. There, employees are represented, inter alia, by workers' organisations and safety representatives. In this context, there is also an influence on the total defence responsibilities. The Regulation on the participation of total defence debtors regulates participation at local and central level. The purpose of the participation is to develop the activities in accordance with the objectives of the training, but also to promote good educational conditions. At local level, elected representatives must be present on each unit with at least ten total defence responsibilities, and centrally appointed representatives – the Pliktrådet – who will represent the total defence responsibilities. According to the employer policy delegation, which has been in force since 1994 and which Parliament has repeatedly supported, responsibility for the agency's personnel matters lies not with the government but with the authority, in this case the Swedish Armed Forces. In connection with the noted events in Karlsborg, the Swedish Armed Forces have made it clear that the Agency takes the information on maladministration seriously and that a thorough investigation is being carried out. The Swedish Armed Forces have also shown in their annual report that equal treatment and non-discrimination are taken seriously. The report shows that the Authority conducts, among other things, an annual employee survey involving these issues. Furthermore, during 2019 the Swedish Armed Forces have established a central operational support called Investigation support unwelcome behaviour, which aims to ensure uniform and quality-assured treatment of offensive discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment and reprisals. The government has reactivated the obligation to do basic education with military service. The training is gender neutral, and the recruitment base thus covers the entire population. This is one of the most important measures for increased equality within the Swedish Armed Forces. Since reactivation in 2017, the proportion of women in basic education has increased from approximately 13 per cent to just over 17 per cent. An increased number of women in basic education is important in order to get more women to want to take up employment within the Swedish Armed Forces. My picture is that the Swedish Armed Forces are doing targeted and structured work to increase gender equality within the agency and to create a work environment free from harassment. I closely follow the Swedish Armed Forces' work in this area.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-61	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. You who have power, do something about the situation. This is the cry for help that came in an anonymous letter to the regimental commander of K 3 in Karlsborg in early 2020. There are alarms about punishments, dangerous exercises and homophobia. SVT West has reviewed this. Their reporter has been in contact with 44 guys and girls and heard about their experiences with the officers. 37 of them say that they have experienced offensive comments, 31 of them have experienced bullying and abuse of power and 17 have experienced violence. Only a few people don't recognize themselves in their testimony. Counting this as a percentage means that 84 percent have experienced offensive comments, 70 percent have experienced bullying and abuse of power and 38 percent have experienced violence. During 2019 – 2020 there were 239 conscripts enrolled on K 3. Of them, 218 completed their education. If the respondents from SVT West represent a homogeneous group of the 218 people who carried out the training, this could mean that there were over 180 people who had experienced offensive comments. There could be over 150 people who have experienced bullying and abuse of power and over 80 people who would have experienced violence for a year. You who have power, do something about the situation. The Plikt Council, to which the Minister for Defence refers in its reply, says in SVT Väst's review that they are surprised that K 3 has not acted before. After the review, the regimental commander has said that he will set up another investigation and that he will then decide on further measures. In the event of criminal offences, they shall be reported to the police. Of course it's great, but what I'm looking for is that unless these problems are taken seriously throughout the line, from government and parliament to every recruit, the process does not work, nor does the governance work. Then it doesn't matter what it says in fine papers if it doesn't end up like that. The work with processes is important because it is they that form the basis in all operations and always are there. Well-documented processes and standardised working procedures are no guarantee of good results. In fact, they only indicate the existing level of knowledge in the organisation – at the time. Their full potential can only be exploited if the staff truly believe in value and work to develop and drive the business forward. The Armed Forces' values are based on democratic principles and safeguard the equal value of all people, justice, equality and human rights. Values must be built into the structures. The processes provide a structure to realise the values that the organization has chosen to focus on. If there is no trace in the processes of how we safeguard the equal value or openness, results and responsibility of all people, or care about each other and themselves, such talk just becomes talk. I do not know, Madam President, how to think in this case. The Minister of Defence refers to the delegation of employers' policy. The type of behaviour that SVT West has examined is totally unacceptable. I think so, and so do our Commander-in-Chief. But I think the Secretary of Defense is just throwing away all responsibility. At present, we do not know whether these are individual events, but we need to take the problem seriously.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-71	Madam President, I would like Neither I nor the authority are putting out responsibilities on this point. On the other hand, the delegation of employers' policy is a reality, and it states how the responsibility lies and that staff issues are a responsibility for the Swedish Armed Forces. It is then their duty to investigate and take action when there are allegations of harassment. I know that the Swedish Armed Forces, both at the management level and at the level of the head of the regiment, take the issue seriously and seriously throughout the work, and they want to address this kind of problem. I have a firm opinion that the Swedish Armed Forces are continuously working on core values and internal regulations. As the interpellier says, it is based on the democratic principles of justice, equality and human rights. But the values are also the basis for a code of conduct, namely that diversity should be seen as an asset and that the Armed Forces reject all forms of discrimination, harassment, crime, corruption, sex trafficking and abuse. Employees should not abuse their position of power either in professional or in other relationships. In February 2020, the Swedish Armed Forces developed the Swedish Armed Forces' Guideline on the Code of Conduct on Offences, Harassment and Sexual Harassment within the Swedish Armed Forces. That's the writing I hold in my hand. Here is a thorough review of what applies and how to act. It includes systematic work environment management, preventive measures, clarification of roles and responsibilities, including the employer's investigation and action obligations, and how to deal with unwelcome behaviour. Personnel suspected of having done something seriously wrong in the service can be reported to the Armed Forces Human Resources Board. The notification shall be made by the head of the organisational unit in which the notified entity operates. It shall include an examination of the matter, an opinion with a draft sanction and a justification for the proposal. The authority states that the Board of Liability must examine matters such as disciplinary responsibility, suspension, dismissal, dismissal, prosecution and if you are reasonably suspected of a crime. The Authority has to comply with current regulations in this area. I repeat that it is my firm opinion that the Armed Forces take the issues seriously. The Swedish Armed Forces' values and code of conduct as well as the measures taken by the Swedish Armed Forces confirm this picture. I repeat that the head of the regiment takes this issue very seriously and that the defence leadership also takes this issue very seriously. The publication is the platform for action in this type of case.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-77	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the developed response. What I am thinking is that it does not matter whether you hold the paper the Minister has or the papers I have if they do not become reality throughout the organisation. The government has the opportunity to make it clear through its regulation letter that the Swedish Armed Forces should prioritise issues relating to a good working environment and that everyone should feel welcome in the agency. SVT Väst now showed a review of hunting training at K 3 in Karlsborg in December 2020. In the report, recruits testified to officers who bully, punish, and even use violence. It also emerges in the examination testimony about sexism, abuse of power and a culture of silence. Just three years ago, over 1,700 women within the Swedish Armed Forces wrote a petition called Give Act and bite together. It was about violations and abuse in the suites of Metoo. In the petition Give attention and piece together at DN Debate the women shared their own experiences, including rape, bullying and sexist comments. For many years, the Swedish Armed Forces have worked hard to increase gender equality and reduce discrimination, but yet it seems that it has not really been able to get to grips with this, if what came out in December really is true. I'm really looking forward to the investigation. In my interpellation, I asked a number of questions. I can only interpret the answers I have received as meaning that the Minister of Defence has no intention of acting in any way on the matter, nor has any plans to act to improve the organisational culture of the Armed Forces as a whole. The SVT West's review refers to the fact that it has come to light that there must be isolated events or individual individuals. Is that so, or is it not? I don't know how the Secretary of Defense is reasoning, but for me, it's important. I want to know. Are the processes and systematic work working or not? If they do not, it does not matter what the Minister of Defence or the Riksdag decides. I said in my previous speech that if those asked by the SVT West represent a homogeneous group of the 218 people who carried out the training, there would be over 180 people for one year who have experienced insulting treatment. It requires action, and it requires leadership. It requires explanation and change. To all of you who listen: I hope and pray that you dare to come forward if you are violated, bullied, subjected to abuse of power, experiencing violence or anything that is contrary to the Armed Forces' values. As the Minister for Defence mentioned, the Swedish Armed Forces have introduced a central operating support called Investigation support unwelcome behaviour. Such issues must be taken seriously. I believe in the Armed Forces' values; transparency, results and responsibility. This is something that every employee should live by both in and outside the service. I also believe that we, as political leaders, should set an example, which is also about following the recommendations of the Public Health Agency during the current pandemic.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-87	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces have the task of presenting and planning work on equal treatment and non-discrimination in their annual reports. In its annual report for 2019, the Swedish Armed Forces stated that the aim of the systematic equal treatment work is to ensure that everyone working in the Swedish Armed Forces has equal opportunities and rights to develop within the organisation and be able to act free from discrimination. This means preventing unwelcome behaviour, and taking care of such matters professionally in cases where it occurs. ..................................................... The annual report for 2019 shows that the focus has been on creating increased structure and systematics in order to develop the ability to take care of discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment. The established operating support Investigation support unwelcome behaviour is conducted as a project with a joint steering group, which means that employee organisations and safety representatives have been involved in the development work. The project will continue until May 2021 and then be integrated into the regular organisation and working methods. Within the project, work will continue with operational development in the form of common procedures, methods and processes, in parallel with the conduct of investigations. ..................................................... The report shows that the head of the organisational unit is responsible for the local equal treatment work, action plans and monitoring of the work. Support is provided by a training organisation and support staff, where the contact person equal treatment is a special function to assist the manager in the local work. Karlberg Military College continuously provides education in the equal treatment work for these contact persons. ..................................................... There is extensive work to promote equal treatment and non-discrimination, and the Armed Forces take these issues seriously. I do not think that the work of the Armed Forces should be reduced. This must be done at the local unit level in order for it to work, and it will permeate that work. It is not that the plans and orientations on which we have put directives and with which the Armed Forces are working in their organisation are ineffective. However, when problems arise, it must be addressed, which has also led to the regimental director at Karlsborg now carrying out this work. I guess we'll see what happens. However, it is vitally important to combat harassment in all its forms and to maintain the foundation of values. It is wrong to say that this is not being taken seriously or that no action is being taken. It is clear that in my contacts with the Swedish Armed Forces, I ask questions about how this management is done. We address many types of issues and issues in our continuous dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces. But it is also a question of having a distinction between what is ministerial government and what is ordinary government. The government, like the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership, has a very clear view that the values should apply. The documents that have been produced are those that you should operate from outside, and I know that you work continuously with this kind of issues within the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-95	Madam President, I would like One person tells the reporter at SVT Väst: a lot of people were crying in their beds when the lights were turned off on the dressing room. It was such a strange feeling. Almost quiet, just low sobs. Big and strong guys. Many who wanted to be tough, but when it got quiet and dark it couldn't stay inside anymore. ..................................................... Another says that he still dreams nightmares and wonders if he will be human again. A third relates how an officer stepped on the conscripts when they were wrong rather than telling them how to do it. In the appeal G iv act and piece together in 2017, 1,700 women testified about offensive comments, bullying and rapes. One of them says that she believes that many of the violations can be explained by the culture that prevails within the Swedish Armed Forces: a big thing is the organisational culture that we have and that has existed for a very, very long time. There are ideas that one should be in a certain way and that community and cohesion are a prerequisite, but no obvious thing to be in. She tells us that there are major shortcomings in the leadership of the defense. Furthermore, she puts her finger on something:- We have a very good military leadership that stands for this and is clear. Otherwise, the leadership fails in many places, is my experience. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This for me unsearched into what I said initially – that well-documented processes and standardized work routines are no guarantee of good results. You have to build the values into the structure. It must be ensured that everyone in the organisation is the bearer of values. A good working environment is fundamental for both boys and girls to want to do military service and also take employment in the Swedish Armed Forces. Ultimately, it is about Sweden's defence capabilities. The cry for help was:a) Those of you who have power – do something about the situation! .....................................................
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-100	Madam President, I would like You have to see the different balances in this. Very good, forward-looking work is being carried out within the Swedish Armed Forces. I meet many conscripts, officers and other personnel groups. I thereby get a picture of how to experience the business. I get many times very positive feedback, but it is not the same as the problem we are discussing right now does not exist. It is in order to tackle this type of problem that it is important to have clear governance documents at the bottom. Then it goes without saying that you have to work with these things locally and at the unit level. There is no guarantee that any system will only work because a decision has been taken, but that the people who work within the framework of these activities will also act in that spirit. This is what the foundation development work is about. There is therefore a very clear ambition to develop this within the Swedish Armed Forces. The government's view is crystal clear: We should never accept harassment, reduction or activities that blur both justice and human dignity. That's the focus. When this happens, it is just as sad every time, and then you should also fix it. But I can guarantee that this is taken seriously by the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership and is something you work with continuously. This is something that is handled seriously and comes back to the government in its reporting. It is a good thing that things that are problematic come to the surface, that they are discussed and highlighted, and that the work that is being done then continues to be developed. Thank you for the discussion. We will have to follow this work very closely.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-107	Madam President, I would like Jan R Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to create shooting fields for Home Guard operations in Kalmar County. On 15 December last year, the Riksdag decided on the Bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025. In the bill, the government notes, in view of the continuing deterioration in the security policy situation, that military defence needs to continue to be strengthened and operational capabilities increased. Defending Sweden against armed aggression should be the main task of the military defence. To achieve this goal requires that the Armed Forces units practice more than they have done before. In order for the Swedish Armed Forces to be able to train and train their units, it is necessary for the Agency to have access to appropriate training areas and training facilities. It is the Riksdag and the Government that decides on the overall structure of the representative organisation. On the basis of this, the Swedish Armed Forces will determine the detailed design of the military units that are deemed necessary to meet the requirements of the government. Within the framework of the parliament and the government has established, it is the Swedish Armed Forces that decide where and how the military units should be trained and trained, as well as what training arrangements in the form of shooting fields and other things are needed to train and train the military units. The Swedish Armed Forces, as well as the other defence authorities, have provided comprehensive documentation for the recent defence decision. I note that the Swedish Armed Forces have not addressed the need for additional training facilities in Kalmar County. If the Armed Forces find that any decision by the Riksdag or the Government needs to be made, the Agency will return to the Government with proposals.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-113	Madam President, I would like After all, I am pleased that both I and the Minister for Defence, as he says in his reply, see the function of the Home Guard as very important to Sweden. In many parts of the country, for example in my county of Kalmar County, the Home Guard is the only form of defence activity that exists. It is important not only for defence but also for the robustness of society as a whole. It is about support for society in various forms. In the days we have seen that the Home Guard is involved in helping where snow has come almost meters away. We also know that the police and emergency services often rely on the Home Guard to help socially important activities. Kalmar County is, as I write, me know- the Secretary of Defense is welcome to correct me if I'm wrong – the only county that lacks military shooting fields. This poses major practical problems. For some Home Guard soldiers to go and conduct a simple shooting exercise, this means that a one-way trip takes about five hours – this is to pick up equipment and weapons and transport to the neighbouring county to carry out the exercise there. It is clear that this is, firstly, a waste of resources with a voluntary force committed to solving these important tasks. But it is also ultimately a recruitment problem, because when the soldiers see that they are doing a lot of tasks that do not seem meaningful, they are no longer interested in solving the main task. Overall, the robustness of society is becoming weaker. Whose task it is to resolve this issue, we may have to discuss. But thank you for your answer. I think that the Minister for Defence expresses in many parts what I also mean. For example, he says that the defence still needs to be strengthened and the operational capacity increased– I fully agree with this. He further says that it is necessary for the Swedish Armed Forces to have access to appropriate training areas and facilities. That is a little bit of what I am referring to in this interpellation. In the third part, he says, "The Swedish Armed Forces decide where and how the armed forces are to be trained and trained, as well as what training equipment in the form of shooting fields and other things are needed to educate." ..................................................... This is not entirely true. In the Defence Committee and the documentation from the Swedish Armed Forces that has been submitted to the Defence Committee, they say that you need a new regiment in central Norrland. At the same time, four new regiments have been added in Norrland through the defense decision taken last winter. Why is that? Well, the Minister for Defence himself has stated that there are elements of regional policy in this. So what the Secretary of Defense says doesn't quite make sense. A minister may well see to it that arrangements in the form of shooting fields or regiments are made, if you think it is important. Arvidsjaur, Skellefteå, Östersund and Falun receive these new regiments. What is also interesting is that one of these regiments ends up in the Ministry of Defence's own county. It is easy to suspect that it would be easier to take regional policy into account as it strengthens one's own county. My question to the Minister for Defence is: Why can regional policy be taken into account in the defence minister's own county of Dalarna but not in Kalmar? Kalmar is actually, together with Öland, Gotland and Blekinge, the part of the country that is absolutely closest to our intended enemy.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-124	Madam President, I would like It is clear that you can choose to tilt things in very many ways and make it that this is about some kind of personal ambition. Everyone may be free to judge how that is. This was a broad and comprehensive political settlement. There are reasons for security policy and military geography, but there is also a trace of regional policy that has affected it. A number of regiments have been pointed out. In addition, activities to meet the needs of the training to be carried out will be built up. The Riksdag and the Government can identify regiments and what types of organisational units we should have within the Swedish Armed Forces. But to design the direct operations and determine what it should look like in everyday life with its own infrastructure is the task of the Swedish Armed Forces. I can understand the ambition to create additional resources in Kalmar County. I have no objection to parliamentary representatives representing different parts of the country bringing forward the questions of their regions and the needs of their localities. However, when designing the structure within the Swedish Armed Forces, one makes an overall assessment, and in this particular case that kind of picture of requirements has not arisen. If you are going to set up additional training and shooting fields, this is a process. If the Swedish Armed Forces see these needs, it is the Authority's responsibility to first analyse which operations are relevant and will be carried out on the shooting field for a long time to come. A material may be produced, and an environmental impact assessment must also be drawn up. The process includes consultations with the municipalities, organisations and neighbourhoods concerned. An application must then be submitted to the County Administrative Board's environmental review delegation. The County Administrative Board carries out an audit, and this often leads to requirements for different types of complements. There is also a consultation procedure in the county administrative board's preparation, and then a decision is announced. Various environmental review decisions relating to the defence are also often appealed to the final body, the government. Then there will be a review round in the Land and Environment Court before the case is submitted to the Government for review and decision. In the Government Office, the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the processing. I can once again note that the comprehensive documentation presented by the Swedish Armed Forces together with the other defence authorities on the basis of the defence decision taken in mid-December has not identified this need. I can also note that the government has since 2014 taken a series of decisions on exercise and shooting fields. This applies to Stockholm, Härnösand, Gotland, Strängnäs, Älvkarleby, Kalix and Övertorneå. It is therefore a wide range of actions that have enabled activities on training and shooting fields.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-133	Madam President, I would like I often see Home Guards and talk to them. Many are very committed and think that what they are doing is both important and fun. You have good companionship and, not least, a cohesion that is very important. But there are two things that are often claimed. First of all, you have poor or worn - out equipment, which means that you have to spend too much time in material care instead of practicing the tasks you should practice. Secondly, it is disappointed that the promises made by politics with regard to the Home Guard have not been fulfilled. In larger exercises even the Home Guard's equipment is used, so when the Home Guard is to participate and solve their tasks, you can't always do it with the equipment you have. The home guard is stepmotherly treated and should be given more attention. Promises must be fulfilled, and the equipment they have must be good. The majority of the time the Home Guards work should not go to materiel care. I still have to ask the Secretary of Defense a question. I understand that these issues are not at the top of a defence committee, nor are they at the time when the Government Office is preparing questions. But does the Secretary of Defense think it's reasonable for a Home Guard soldier to go five hours, one way, to take part in a simple shooting exercise? To move forward, I would also like to ask once again whether, as far as the Minister for Defence is aware, there is another county in Sweden where there are similar conditions – a county that lacks shooting places. I must also ask whether the Minister for Defence thinks it reasonable not to use existing facilities. In Kalmar, for example, there are a number of voluntary activities within the Swedish Armed Forces that organise shootings of a different type, which would like to see the Home Guard also become involved in operating and using their facilities so that more people share maintenance and other tasks. They also see that the Home Guard is part of their basic organisation as military NGOs and that it is important to be able to support and train these units. Is it reasonable, Minister of Defence, that Kalmar County has no training places? I don't see that anywhere else in the country has such bad conditions as we have in Kalmar County. Of course you might think that this is the task of the Swedish Armed Forces. After all, it does not only affect the Swedish Armed Forces, but it affects society as a whole. This is an infrastructure needed to train and retain existing skills, which are often lost today.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-141	Madam President, I would like The Home Guard is a very important part of the Swedish Armed Forces. It is a voluntary organisation with approximately 21 000 people and staffed with 3 500 from voluntary defence organisations through voluntary agreements. We have 40 battalions and 22 training groups led by the military regions, which in turn are led by the Home Guard department directly under the head of production management at the Swedish Armed Forces. In the southern military region we have eleven Home Guard battalions and five training groups, of which the Kalmar and Kronoberg groups are one. The Home Guard is an organization that is constantly evolving. It is an organisation that has also gained increased resources and new weapons systems. For example, there was a very attentive and successful pilot project on mortar functions in the Home Guard. It has improved on the equipment side, but there is of course more to do. Nevertheless, I have to deal with the reasonable balance between what in this context is ministerial government and what is government. It is clear that there should always be an effort to have practice areas and shooting places in such a way that it works smoothly and well in everyday life. But it is good if questions are brought to the surface that you perceive as problems and that you want to solve. That's part of the future processing process. I have nothing against this discussion and debate. It is reasonable to take up what you do not think is satisfactory. Then you'll see how it can be brought into processes and get analysed according to the regular paths and paths we have. When it comes to the collaboration of the Armed Forces and NGOs around different facilities, I can generally say that it is a positive thing if you can find benefits in this way. The authorities and organisations that we have must take responsibility for this themselves. I believe that both Jan R Andersson and I have the view that we should have a well-functioning Home Guard and a well-functioning operation that is perceived as attractive and that one would like to participate in. That is why it is important to have this kind of discussion. What I firmly know, and for which we have pushed, is to develop the Home Guard as an organization. We see that it is very useful in connection with different types of crisis situations and as support to society. It has improved on the equipment side, but there is more to do. The competence of the Home Guard is continuously increasing. That part in the development of the Home Guard should not be forgotten when describing the operation. I continuously meet with Home Guard staff and have also met them in different practice contexts. And I know that this is a committed and forward-looking organisation with many very committed people who are also making great efforts in various civilian crisis situations.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-150	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense says the Home Guard has been added new tasks, and that's true. For example, in previous defence decisions it has been mentioned that one should have indirect firepower, anti-aircraft capability, bridge-laying capability and an increased anti-tank capability. What has happened is that some platoons with indirect fire grenades have been added, but otherwise the promises have not been fulfilled. I believe that the Home Guard, and you say that yourself, is prepared to increase its competence, to become wider and to be able to solve more tasks. It is also expressed that a political promise has been made to do so. There is therefore some disappointment in the Home Guard that political parties have not delivered. The organisation in Kalmar County has written to the Minister for Defence – I have also raised the issue in different kinds of contexts – that they have a white spot for the practice activities in Kalmar County, which negatively affects the ability to recruit and retain expertise within the Home Guard in southeastern Småland. But I can guarantee that they will write to you again and to the Armed Forces as well, because precisely today Eastern Småland is a white spot on the map when it comes to military activities, and that is of course not good. As we increase the structure, have more units and a larger military operation, when the Home Guard is to grow from 50 000 to 75 000 and today we do not even reach 50 000, we have to think about these questions: does the infrastructure look good? What motivates the soldiers to actually apply to and stay in the Home Guard? Then these issues are important, because today it is difficult to recruit and retain Home Guard soldiers in Kalmar County. In the end, however, I have to say that the Minister for Defence has shown that the evidence presented by the Swedish Armed Forces or the Defence Committee can be changed. Then you should also be able to change them in such a way that Kalmar County does not have to be a white spot on the map. I look forward with confidence to continuing this discussion in other forms.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-156	Madam President, I would like Don't forget, Jan R Andersson, that in the bill we have entered basic organization units and specified establishments in some locations! Then it is the Swedish Armed Forces that must clear out all the infrastructure parts that lie around the operation. This is also the responsibility of this type of shooting field and practice field. I just want to get this clear so that you know who's doing what in those kinds of processes. Then I have nothing against getting letters, letters and calls in various types of cases. I am looking forward to increasing and broadening the competence of the Home Guard gradually. The Home Guard's leadership must also be involved in such progressive development work, and that is what you are. I believe that there are good opportunities to develop both the competence and the breadth of the organisation. You should not reduce the fact that there has been a lot on the equipment side and that you have taken out the stride length. I also think that the Home Guard works in a lot of good ways. Then there is development potential, but it does in most operations. I would like to thank Jan Andersson for the debate and I am quite sure that it will come back in other contexts.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-161	Madam President, I would like Clara Aranda has asked me what proactive measures and actions I and the government intend to take further to promote the mental health of the population with particular regard to the covid-19 pandemic, I look at the possibility of setting up a national coordinator for the overall work on suicide prevention, to strengthen the national suicide prevention work during and after the pandemic, if it is possible for the government to speed up the process of setting up a national support line for people with mental illness and suicide, as well as for their relatives and relatives, and if I intend to work to do so. I would like to start by mentioning that I am pleased that Clara Aranda seems to have a particular commitment to the issues of mental health and suicide prevention. These are important issues that I and the government are also giving high priority to. We did so even before the pandemic broke out, and we will continue to do so. We agree that efforts to combat mental illness and prevent suicide should be strengthened. This is generally true, but perhaps especially in the light of the pandemic. The proposals for initiatives presented in the Swedish Democrats' budget to combat mental illness have already been implemented by the government as a whole. This involves increased support for civil society organisations working on mental health and suicide prevention and strong efforts on primary care, student health care, child and youth psychiatry, youth clinics, pupil health and suicide prevention. These efforts are particularly important in the light of the situation we are currently in. In the budget proposal for 2021, Regeringen announced a continued increased focus on mental health and suicide prevention, which includes approximately SEK 2.2 billion annually during the period 2021 – 2022. In five years, the government's investment in mental health has more than doubled. For 2021, approximately SEK 1.7 billion is allocated through an agreement between the State and Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, SKR, in the area of mental health and suicide prevention. Most of the funds are directed to municipalities and regions to strengthen and develop their work. The funds can be used to strengthen prevention and promotion during the covid-19 crisis. Preparedness to face an increased mental illness in society is nothing to be rushed forward during an ongoing crisis. Meeting and combating mental illness requires long-term and strategic measures. As Clara Aranda mentions, clear strategies are also needed that are intended to help increase the mental well-being of the population and create a prosperous society. Against this background, the Government has commissioned around 20 authorities to provide input for a new strategy in the area of mental health and suicide prevention. The mission focuses in particular on prevention and promotion. This basis will be important for the government's continued efforts to improve mental health in the population. As part of our work, we have also commissioned the Public Health Agency to establish a mental health and suicide prevention function at the Agency from 1 January this year. The role of the function shall be to disseminate knowledge about mental health and suicide to the public and to engage in dialogue with the public in the field. I hope and believe that the function will be important to increase knowledge of mental health in the population. Finally, I would like to point out briefly that since 2015, the Public Health Agency has been the national coordinating authority for the suicide prevention work at national level. This also applies during a pandemic. I do not intend to change this order. As regards the mandate given by the Government to the Public Health Authority to analyse the need for a national support line aimed at people with mental illness and suicide and their relatives and relatives, I intend to await the results of the Agency's report in January 2021.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-170	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Social Affairs for the answer to the interpellation. All efforts to prevent mental illness and promote good mental health are an investment. My view is that this issue is being taken increasingly seriously and, as the Minister for Social Affairs initially preferred, there are many initiatives, which is a positive thing. The purpose of my interpellation is to highlight the effects that the coronapandemine may have on specific mental health in society while highlighting the importance of a more proactive and long-term approach to meet challenging consequences of the coronapandemin. Even before the pandemic, the increasing mental illness was a major and complex public health challenge for us to face. During the pandemic, our lives have changed drastically, and we are affected daily by the crisis we find ourselves in. Covid-19 is a viral disease that primarily affects physical health. However, it is known from previous research that mental health is affected by these kinds of crises. Research shows that crises such as pandemics can reinforce existing vulnerability to mental illness. It is about vulnerability such as financial vulnerability, low educational background and mental illness. We know that this crisis is hitting the economy hard, forcing involuntary loneliness and leading to both anxiety and fear in many. We are not aware of the long-term effects of this particular pandemic, but we need to have a plan which means that we take height and prepare for the expected effects. We must also take into account the possible effects of an increase in mental illness in itself. As we know, the ultimate consequence of mental illness is suicide. According to the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, there is an imminent risk that the number of suicides and self-harm will increase due to the pandemic. The scope for countering and facing a development in which the mental health of the population is deteriorating even more and where suicides may increase is currently limited if we are to start from the government's existing efforts. I am convinced that we need to have a more specific and focused focus on mental ill health related to the covid-19 pandemic, and therefore I have also asked the Minister for Social Affairs for further proactive actions and measures specifically related to the pandemic. I would therefore like to see more clarity on how the Minister for Social Affairs sees more specific measures, mainly of a preventive nature, in order to find new innovative ways of dealing with a deterioration in mental health that is at risk of being a far-reaching effect of this pandemic.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-181	Madam President, I would like I thank Clara Aranda for the interpellation, commitment and tone of the discussion. These are important questions. Many of the people who listen and feel concerned are fundamentally concerned about their own situation and that of others. It is still a little early to say how the pandemic has affected the development of mental health and suicide. However, experiences from past pandemics and social crises of various kinds show both a reduction in the well-being of the population and an imminent risk of an increase in mental illness and, as an ultimate consequence, an increase in the number of suicides. Not least, this is linked to recession. The major concern is, of course, how long the pandemic lasts and what the consequences are. In parallel with limiting the spread of infection, we are trying to take steps to ensure that people are able to maintain jobs, income and confidence in the future. Even if you work in a vulnerable industry, you need to know that you can pay for food and rent and support your family during the crisis. One should be able to have hope for the future, even if we have a dark year behind us. Particularly vulnerable are likely people who already have mental problems and who may now have been in isolation for a long time. We had a summer and autumn when the situation looked different, and hopefully it gave people the opportunity to break the isolation a little. However, for almost a year many have been in isolation and self-chosen quarantine, so in very limited association with other people, which of course affects mental well-being. As I said in my answer, we have started work on trying to be as long-term as we think we have to be. I have said on many occasions that the lack of mental health is probably the great public illness of our time – and this has been said despite the fact that we are in the midst of a pandemic. A number of years ago it was discussed that young girls felt bad from the pressure at school. But it's really not that simple. We know that mental illness is the reason for many women's sick absences. Even many older people suffer from mental illness that should be taken very seriously, but over the years they have far too often had a pat on their shoulders and a We also see it in young guys, yes, in the whole population. It is important to work on this long-term and see how different authorities can contribute based on the role they have so that the issue does not just land in health care, which is easy to happen. I appreciate that Clara Aranda is asking the question, but it is also quite typical and classic that it is precisely Members who are involved in health issues that are also involved in this. However, it is important that we succeed in involving the whole of society if we are to break the development of mental illness. Over the past year, civil society organisations have received additional resources, precisely because they have already built relationships and contacts with people with mental illness. They have an established role and are something you can turn to. We should not underestimate the fact that one does not always turn to an authority to talk about one's well-being, but the first contact can often be with civil society. That is why they were awarded another 65 million SEK in the year behind us. But we have more to do.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-190	Madam President, I would like Lena Hallengren said that you should not rush out anything in the middle of a crisis but look at it long-term and see the measures that have already been taken. There are many measures, which is a good thing, but, at the same time, our action at the moment is absolutely crucial to the development of the situation. During the pandemic, the government has regularly presented various measures and initiatives related to covid-19. And they recently announced an investment of SEK 50 million to go to more research on long-term covid. The reason for the government's efforts should be that the need for new knowledge is great in terms of both the cause of the symptoms and how they should be treated best. Similarly, we need to face the effects of covid-19 on mental health. I hope that the Minister for Social Affairs realises the importance of promoting more clearly targeted measures also in relation to mental ill health related to covid-19 so that the focus does not just revolve around the physical effects on health that covid-19 can entail. It is, of course, difficult to predict exactly what effects the covid-19 pandemic will have on the mental health of the population. In the research that has been available, we can see a number of examples where suicides have been temporarily shown to reduce when society is in a crisis, such as war or natural disasters. However, these reductions have proved temporary and are compensated, or are overcompensated, afterwards when the immediate crisis is over. We must therefore be well prepared for such a development. In fact, if we go back in time, the Swedish Parliament adopted a zero vision for suicide as much as twelve years ago. Unfortunately, there has not been much of that zero vision, and there are a number of reasons for that. A zero vision in itself makes no difference, but it is the work to achieve the goal that matters. Without interim targets, follow-up and analysis, the case will be flat. This brings me to my second question in the interpellation, in which I call for the possibility of setting up a national coordinator for the overall work on suicide prevention, in order to strengthen the national suicide prevention work both during and after the crisis that we are currently in. The appointment of a national coordinator with primary responsibility for coordinating national suicide prevention efforts is neither difficult nor particularly costly. The government's declared willingness to face the suicide problem must be followed up with political decisions that make a difference. And then I mean decisions that are based on more reflection. It is not a question of rushing things forward, it is a question of having a long-term plan and, not least, of having more direct action during a difficult time.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-196	Madam President, I would like Just to mention a few measures, it is, as I said earlier, resources – 65 million to civil society organisations – that have played a major role, both in providing them with support so that they can do an important job and then we want feedback and to know how they are experiencing the situation. They become important temperature meters, if I may use that expression, for what it looks like. So far during the pandemic, they have been able to testify to how pressure in them has increased. It is also about resources for the regions in order to develop and strengthen digital contacts in activities where people are known to be more careful about making physical visits and sometimes also advised against them. It's about how to really be able to meet people with mental illness. It is 30 million SEK for municipalities to counteract the consequences of the isolation of older people. It is clear that it is a group that is particularly at risk of serious illness and death and is being called upon to limit its contacts. Although some have dared to go to a grocery store, we know how the pandemic began and that many have remained isolated for a long time. It is about being able to work with digital tools and solutions for both that target group and other businesses. It is also about the task of the Swedish Work Environment Authority to make information efforts to raise awareness among employers about the risks that can be present in the work environment as a result of covid-19. There is special crisis support and trauma support for the ill-health that can arise from staff who have participated in the direct covid-19 work. Then I would like to spend some time talking about the long-term. I think Clara Aranda is absolutely right in this. The Parliament called on the then government in 2008 to have a strategy and a suicide prevention programme, and it exists since 2008. Then, in the period 2016 – 2020 – just passed time – there has been a five-year strategy that has identified five focus areas that are urgent for action and that can be developed to ensure that you have early and available interventions. Now we have chosen not only to have five new years in a new strategy, but we think we need to take a grip on the 20 agencies that really come up with how they can contribute. It is always believed that it is the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, but there are 18 additional authorities we are talking about, for example the Swedish Work Environment Authority. When it comes to the national coordinator, I would like to say that national coordination has been a task for the Public Health Agency since 2015. During the year, the Public Health Agency has had to prepare itself for the creation of a special function from 1 January, and it has not, in principle, yet entered into force. Part of the Swedish Public Health Agency should work very specifically for mental health, and this should not be done towards a specific part of the population, but as broad as the Swedish Public Health Agency is used to working. It will be interesting to follow this work. As I said, the function has just been set up. I imagine, of course, that there will be those who are more or less outgoing at work, but above all that they are working very thorough, because that is how we can eventually ensure that mental health is improved in the population. They have received SEK 15 million to develop coordination. It is a structure for strengthening national suicide prevention efforts, not least in cooperation with Suicide Zero and other civil society actors.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-204	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Public Health Agency has been coordinating suicide prevention work at national level for six years does not exclude the fact that we need a national coordinator given a clear role to carry out this important work. The suicide statistics in our country speak clearly. Every lost life shows that we can and will do more. There are so many angles and aspects that I wish there was time to take up this debate, precisely because the pandemic hits people suffering from mental illness and anyone who has a psychiatric diagnosis. One example is young people with eating disorders. It is young people who feel very bad and who, for example, can no longer get the opportunity to distract themselves from their eating disorder with help and support from their important group therapy, due to current restrictions, while social media in various ways triggers suggestions on how to get in shape during the pandemic. The example also shows the extent of the pandemic's effects. This situation requires more from the government – that is still my conclusion. Finally, I would like to point out that I very much hope that, after the Public Health Agency's report, the government will speed up the process of putting in place a national support line for people with mental illness and suicide. It is not justifiable to drag on the process anymore. Having said that, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-209	Madam President, I would like We have not talked much about the support line in this interpellation debate, but Clara Aranda and I have done so in the past. I would just like to have said this on another occasion that it is the regions that are responsible for health care and also for psychiatric care. It is those who have previously been responsible for gathering around the support line and who have decided that they want to organise it in a different way. So it is not the government that has had the support line and closed it – I would have said that anyway. But it is clear that we should look at the evidence provided by the Swedish Public Health Agency. That's why they got the mission. Let me put the words out a little bit about the function, which is new and came into place as late as 1 January. In early 2020, the Public Health Agency was tasked with looking at what a coordinating function could look like. We wanted to develop a specific function for mental health and suicide prevention that could be established at the Agency. The role of the specific function shall be to disseminate knowledge about mental health and suicide to the public. Within the function there shall be a representative who shall lead the work of the function and act as spokesperson for the function's activities. It is not called a national coordinator, but I do not doubt that the person can be regarded as one. At the end of April, during a burning pandemic, the Swedish Public Health Agency reported the mission to the Government and proposed that when the need for knowledge arises, people should be able to provide both targeted and target-oriented information to stakeholders as well as the general public and occupational groups, that they should provide reliable and relevant knowledge with scientific support, that they should have a holistic perspective and take into account the existing range of knowledge – this is of course always the case – and that they should also offer opportunities for dialogue for target groups in the general public. I have great hopes and expectations. I will also say that, of course, in addition to the function and agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions of 2.2 billion, extensive work is being carried out that must increase across the country in all regions responsible for Swedish health care.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-213	Madam President, I would like Margareta Cederfelt has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the spread of the Corona virus in Sweden, so that fewer people will fall ill in covid-19, so that health care is sufficient for those who need it and that the number of infected with the Corona virus will reach the same level in Sweden as in our Nordic neighbours. I would like to begin by saying that it is now almost a year since the government decided to classify the new coronavirus as being dangerous to the general public and dangerous to society. Since then, many different measures have been taken by the government, state authorities, regions, municipalities and other relevant actors to deal with one of the biggest crises that Sweden has faced in modern times. Many people have also taken a huge responsibility throughout the year to do their part in keeping the infection down. The Government's strategy and overall goal in its work on the pandemic is to limit the spread of infection in order to protect people's lives and health and to safeguard health care capacity. Ensuring resources for health care, limiting the impact on other activities of social importance and mitigating consequences for citizens and businesses are also part of the Government's objectives. The measures taken by the Government shall be based on knowledge and proven experience, and the measures taken shall be continuously reviewed. In addition, when measures are taken to reduce the spread of infection, the impact on society and public health at large shall be taken into account. Like many of Europe's countries, Sweden has been severely affected by the virus, and as developments in the world and Sweden show, the pandemic is still ongoing. The government and the Public Health Authority have therefore recently decided again on stricter restrictions and bans. Since December 24, 2020, the Government has banned the sale of alcohol at serving points after 20:00. The Swedish Public Health Agency has limited the number of people in the same company at serving points, and they can reach a maximum of four people. From 18 December 2020, there is also a strong call for the closure of activities operated by the state, regions and municipalities and not necessary until 24 January 202 1. An equally strong call is addressed to the country's employers and employees: Do all you can to work from home. In addition, distance education takes place in the country's upper secondary schools until 24 January 2021. The Government also decided on a bill with proposals for a temporary covid-19 law on 4 January 202 1. The Act entered into force on 10 January 2021. Through the law, the government or the authorities have been given the opportunity to decide on disease control rules in more activities, which previously do not meet binding rules. These include gyms, campsites, museums, shops, service facilities such as barbershops, party rooms and public transport such as busses, trains and subways where congestion easily occurs. Under the Act, the Government has decided on a regulation that regulates disease control measures on trading venues, gyms and sports facilities, baths and places rented for private gatherings. The Regulation also became applicable on 10 January 2021. This is a sample of measures recently taken by the government and the relevant expert authorities to limit the spread of infection in order to protect people's lives and health and to safeguard health care capacity. However, as in all countries, it is crucial that everyone keeps a distance from each other and reduces their physical social contacts in order to help reduce the spread of infection. The government and the authorities continue their efforts to reduce the spread of infection and to get through the pandemic. The government is prepared to decide on more measures if necessary. Since Christmas there are also vaccinations against covid-19 that will be extended as more vaccine is delivered to Sweden.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-224	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren for her reply. The Coronapandemia has hit Sweden hard, and it has hit the world hard. Unfortunately, today we see no end to the ravages of the pandemic and how people are affected. The government has a strategy, the Public Health Agency has a strategy, MSB has a strategy and the other authorities, as the Minister of Social Affairs mentioned, have a strategy. At the same time, we can see that sickness rates in Sweden are high. I compare with other Nordic countries, because it is this region in the world that we are in. Then I can say that Sweden is more severely affected than our Nordic neighbours. Sweden has a more difficult situation than Denmark, Norway and Finland. I raise the issue because it is the ordinary citizen – everyone – who is affected. It is important to act. As the Minister of Social Affairs said, it's important to know what you're doing. I understood that what the Minister of Social Affairs said was to be prepared to change – to change strategy – in order to protect citizens. But I did not hear anything about the instruments for making changes, i.e. testing and contamination detection. Sweden got started late with this. There are those who claim that the situation we have in Sweden today is due to the fact that we started to detect and test late in relation to other countries. Why did the Minister of Social Affairs not mention anything about this in his strategy? I mention the question, because it was something that Ulf Kristersson also raised in the party leader debate yesterday. I would like to mention another issue which is also important. It's about role models. It is not always what we say that matters, it is what we do and how we act. It's not the number of press conferences. I am, of course, thinking here of MSB and the outgoing Director-General. I think it was good that the Director-General resigned. It would have been untenable to be the Director-General of a crisis preparedness authority and, at the same time, not to live as is taught. But I also ask the question of what the government's procedures are to be in close contact with the Directors-General. I am not asking the government to have contact with its employees – that is the task of the Directors-General – but to have contact with Directors-General about who is on duty and under what conditions and that a Director-General actually reports and is in contact with the Government in order to avoid a situation such as that which has apparently existed during autumn and Christmas: that the Director-General is out of office and that responsibility for the authority rests with other officials. I think these are important issues that I would like to raise. I would also like to mention a few other issues that I regard as very important. The measures that have been taken and which the Minister mentions are, I think, a good thing, even though they have come late. In fact, I should like to mention the measures that have been last decided here in Parliament on 10 January on closures and on possibilities for the government to act more forcefully. Why has there obviously been no communication with the county administrative boards?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-233	Madam President, I would like I hear Margareta Cederfelt has ideas for many different interpellations. There is a lot coming up, and I will do my best to answer her questions and of course also have a dialogue. I appreciate Margareta Cederfelt's tone in the discussion, and I think it is important that we try to have a dialogue and a good tone when we are in the midst of a pandemic and all really try best to deal with a situation that is, as I would like to repeat, the biggest crisis in modern times. It is not only a health crisis because it is a virus, but it is a social crisis that has paralyzed not only large parts of Swedish society but also our world around us. We've had to change our way of life. Each of us can only go to ourselves and how we spent our Christmas, how many birthdays have not been celebrated, how rarely you meet others and the fact that you actually simply live your life so differently. I would like to start by saying that I really cannot respond when it comes to contacts specifically with the Director-General of MSB, because it is not in my area. But when it comes to the Public Health Authority and the National Board of Health, which are authorities that are very much in the midst of pandemic and crisis management and are under the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs' management had daily reconciliations with them throughout the spring. Throughout the autumn there have been a couple of days a week. So we are in very close dialogue with them. I believe that press conferences and information of various kinds have been very important during this crisis. It's about people understanding the pandemic. You need to understand how to act yourself, and it should not only be someone who says that you should do something, but you have to understand why. Of course, it increases adherence. If someone just says that you shouldn't meet good friends, you might think it seems crazy, but if you understand why, how the virus spreads and what the consequences are, it makes it easier of course. Margareta Cederfelt may return to her question about pandemic law and county boards, I think, but the question of Norway, Finland and Denmark was still in the interpellation itself. I think there are two different perspectives. One is that it is probably not certain that you can simply compare yourself to the country closest to you. We can look at Portugal and Spain or how different Italy was hit compared to Switzerland, for example. We can also see what it looks like in different parts of the country – not only in Italy, Spain and France, but also in Sweden different parts of the country are affected differently. It's a treacherous virus and it's hard to predict. The second perspective is that I would say that Sweden is unfortunately in good company with the rest of Europe when it comes to both the spread of infection, the death rate and that it is the group of older people who are severely affected. If you want to compare the number per million inhabitants who have died, you can see that Sweden is on some type of EU average. It is really nothing that anyone is proud of in any way, but there is an EU cut during a pandemic. We all do together what we can to actually get that end. Margareta Cederfelt began by saying that she saw no end to the pandemic, but I think that the approval of vaccines and the introduction of vaccinations are the beginning of the end – although I would like to give Margareta Cederfelt quite rightly that it does not mean that all measures can be terminated and that all the spread of infection is waning. But it is clear that a completely different development is beginning. I would also like to say that I think there is a certain misunderstanding. As I described here, a strategy is about reducing and minimising the spread of infection, about protecting life and health and about ensuring that society works. It is a question of being able to constantly review measures. I am happy to come back to that, but we do not have the same measures today as at the beginning of the pandemic; they have been reconsidered and changed.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-241	Madam President, I would like My question began with me reading in the media that Finnish healthcare offers Sweden its services. That's very good. We should be extremely happy for the good cooperation we have with our neighbours and for the fact that there is such thinking and an intention to help each other. But Sweden must also ensure that the spread of infection goes down. I say this because it is the government that rules and leads the country. I say this because it is ordinary people who are affected. We can read the statistics every day, and it's sad. It's about someone's parent, and it's about someone's grandmother or grandpa. It may be someone's children who are affected — who become ill and, at worst, die. I mentioned this with the county boards as an example. There is a new law, which has only been in place for a few days, that the county boards should work on behalf of the government. At the same time, a newspaper article was presented today showing that 11 of the 15 county boards have not carried out any checks so far. It is true, then, that the law has only been in place for a few days, but given the danger of the pandemic and how it strikes, it is important that the follow-up is launched very quickly. This work would, of course, have been started early by the government. One should have worked in parallel with developing legislation to be able to work in parallel with the county boards to ensure that their activities could start already day one, without delay. I say this because it shows that there are delays in the Swedish system. When I have read what the government does, what it says and how it acts, it is very much about following proven experience. Methods that other countries have applied and that prove to be successful are being followed. But here it's important to be at the forefront. It is a matter of daring to act and be quick to bring down the spread of the disease. It is something that has emerged during the journey: it is important to limit and ensure that the virus does not get hold of large parts of society. I say this because, although we have expert authorities, it is the government that gives priority. It is the government that makes the political priorities and governs – reigns – the country. I would like to mention another point that I think is extremely important, and that is information for the citizens. The press conferences that have been held on a daily basis and are now somewhat slimmed down are good; that is extremely important. We also have TV programs that have included information. At the same time, however, it has come to the conclusion that large groups in society have been unable to access information and still cannot be reached. What are the thoughts about this? It is important that everyone is reached. In several other countries – including the United States, which, however, has a greater spread of infection than Sweden, so this may not be a good example – information has been regularly sent out through various channels. This is done via e-mail and via SMS in a different way than in Sweden. Perhaps it is important to reconsider this and see how we can communicate better with the citizens than we do today. Ultimately, it is about fewer people actually getting sick. It is important to take care of when the health care system actually sounds the alarm. They say, "We can't take it anymore." How can we deal with the situation if more people get sick? It's getting full, and we're tired.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-247	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the county boards will start their supervisory work. I think that Margareta Cederfelt really understands quite well that it takes time to be able to monitor and find that structure on the basis of a comprehensive piece of legislation that is decided. I do not know whether we should wait with the legislation, which of course is needed for us to be able to regulate activities that we did not previously reach, in order for all county boards to have had time to hire more. When this study was carried out, it had been three days, and I think perhaps we will see that in the greatest crisis in modern times – although it has been going on for a while – there is no conclusion. Now the county administrative boards will find a strategy and a systematic approach to be able to supervise activities that are also in a position to adapt to the new regulations. Nevertheless, I am confident that the county boards are in agreement with this. Of course, they were not surprised by Parliament's decision, but it is an extensive task. Again, there will be a lot of discussion, and although Margareta Cederfelt uses a little different words from her party chairman, it is a little bit that everything could have been done a little faster, that the government is slow and that the government does not take responsibility. It's a little mantra from the Moderates, but I don't think it's a fair picture. I think we should remember what it looked like at the beginning of the pandemic and that the measures introduced at that time had an immediate effect at first. No matter where we live, we remember well how the streets were emptied of people and how public transport gaped empty. In many municipalities there was an alarm that 30, 40 or 50 per cent were at home, short-term sick, with mild symptoms. So people were extremely receptive. We had an effect that perhaps did not correspond to a lockdown, but I think it was quite close in many places. People reacted and kept from physical contact with virtually everyone. Teleworking, which had previously been a few granted, became something that applied to everyone. There was also distance education in high school. When Margareta Cederfelt and many others– I will say that I am very curious too – looking at other countries to see what they are doing that we could have done differently is the crux of the matter that it is difficult to find measures that you can feel safe with have certain effects. They may have an effect on the spring but not the same in the autumn, because then the fatigue – pandemic fatigue, as they say – is great. People cannot really, for many human reasons, refrain from various types of activities. Then you need to screw up the measures, which we have also done in Sweden. It's also about the fact that countries can be close to each other – it can even be one country, which is covered by the same regulatory framework – but still have very different effects. It has sometimes been described as our Nordic neighbours reacting harder and shutting down more. But that was also done in Belgium, which is a country that has really suffered very badly during this pandemic. I want to say that I have suffered a great deal, because without knowing, I do not think that their government has in any way been nudged or intended that it should not take this very seriously. It has indeed taken the necessary measures in Belgium, but yet Belgium has been hit very hard both in the first and the second wave. There are also countries – such as the Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Slovenia – that were barely affected in the spring and almost not seen in measurements, but that have unfortunately ended up in a situation where they have had very high mortality rates, a huge spread of infection and enormous pressure on their health care, although they can think that they know how to do it because they made it in the first wave. It's not just treacherous, it's genuinely difficult. There is really no one who can say that this is about any precise measure, but it is about timing, what the context in the country looks like and how to run your country.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-256	Madam President, I would like I thank Lena Hallengren for her reply, but for the sake of clarity I would like to say that I fully support the politics of my party and the statement by Ulf Kristersson. I think it is important, and he puts his finger on something that is extremely urgent. What I also want to highlight, as the Minister of Social Affairs mentioned here, are vaccinations. This is extremely important in order to break the spread of the disease and to prevent more people from becoming ill. At the same time, I would like to say that I am concerned when I read that more and more people are afraid of being vaccinated and perhaps refraining from vaccination. Then it will not be the protection that we need in the population. A medical nurse in Burlöv stated that the staff in care for the elderly do not want to vaccinate to a large extent. The elderly have taken the shots, because they realize the seriousness. What will the government do to ensure that more Swedes are actually prepared to vaccinate and assume their responsibilities? Otherwise, the infection won't stop. It's an important part. Perhaps it is necessary to have a carrot in the form of a certificate? Here too, Sweden is late out. Denmark is in the process of developing a certificate to facilitate mobility that can be used in different contexts to support mobility. It's a matter of thinking here, Minister of Social Affairs. Care must be taken to motivate more people to vaccinate themselves. We cannot sit in a situation where we should trust that our neighbouring countries want to help us when their infection goes down while the Swedish health care system goes at a high speed when people in Sweden still fall ill to a greater extent than is happening in our Nordic neighbours. It is important for the government to stand on its toes here and act quickly.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-263	Madam President, I would like I tried to praise Margareta Cederfelt for being very nuanced in the discussion, but at the end she ran some regular Moderate pamphlets. The fact is that Sweden is not late with either vaccination strategy or vaccinations. Norway and Iceland receive vaccines because Sweden has signed agreements for them too; it has also taken a lot of time and effort. You can help each other in different ways. Nor is it that Swedish healthcare is not enough in the sense that we are burdening other Nordic countries instead, but it is of course incredibly important that we cooperate and cooperate in all situations. I'm going to pick up on the last game that Margareta Cederfelt made, which was that more and more people are afraid to vaccinate. I do not recognize that picture – on the contrary, it turns out in measurements that more and more people want to vaccinate themselves. This has changed dramatically from October, when we were down to 55 – 56 percent who said that they absolutely or probably wanted to vaccinate. Now we are up to 77 percent, and it is a much smaller part – and a shrinking part – that firmly says no. Here, information is very central. Here, too, all of us political representatives of all parties are important when we are going to tell people that we are not taking a chance or making emergency approvals. We shall ensure that all the reviews and studies that need to be carried out are actually carried out. We only use those vaccines that are approved according to the rules of art. We will ensure that we have insurance structures in place, but we will also make this available to people. Regardless of who you are and where you are, you should have easy vaccination. That information needs to go out in many different ways. In particular, each region needs to look at the vulnerable areas and vulnerable groups. What groups are at risk of being vaccinated to a lesser extent than others? How can you better reach them? I am very hopeful about this.
i-PJvNkvwrZuijfcfKtcoUry	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Per Bolund, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Jennie Nilsson and Minister Anna Hallberg. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-272	Madam President, I would like I turn to Minister Anna Hallberg. From Brussels, there is now an investment agreement between the EU and the People's Republic of China in place. This is not something we have seen here in the Swedish Parliament. Perhaps the Government has taken note of this together with the rest of the Government. There are different perspectives on this. It is good and important that we have a level playing field between business in Europe and China, but at the same time we have to ask a number of questions. Is this the right time for this, given the twilight situation of the People's Republic of China is dragging down Hong Kong with arrested people and, most recently, a closed website because of the new security laws? Are there reasonable balances in this agreement? And can we trust China to maintain an agreement? What is happening right now in Hong Kong is based on China ignoring the agreement which establishes the principle of one country, two systems.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-276	Madam President, I would like The government's assessment is that it is gratifying and significant that the EU and China have now reached an agreement in principle on the conclusion of an investment agreement. This agreement will significantly improve the access of European investors and Swedish companies to the important Chinese market. It will create much better conditions to compete on more equal terms in China. It will also promote the EU's core values, objectives and values of sustainable development in China. For the first time in a bilateral agreement with the EU, China has agreed to clear commitments on the environment, climate and human rights. We have an open economy. I know, Madam President, that Mr Wallmark shares the view with me that we should have an open economy with an emphasis on free trade. It is really in Sweden's interest to trade with countries like China. I see that this is an important step forward in terms of being able to have a platform to continue developing that trade.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-279	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that free trade is extremely central. That is why, of course, the aspects highlighted by the Government are extremely important. But what she then ignores are the aspects that I highlighted, namely whether we can trust China to keep an agreement. They're breaking other deals. We also see this in the international trade process and in the WTO. Human rights are affected. Something we can see today is the twilight situation that the People's Republic of China represents with what is happening in Xinjiang and what is aimed at the freedom fighters in Hong Kong. The question is: Is this the right time?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-282	Madam President, I would like As I said, this is an important platform for having a clearer dialogue on the very issues raised by Hans Wallmark. The letter on issues relating to China endorsed by the Government and the Riksdag in autumn 2019 describes very clearly the challenges and opportunities that we have in China. I share the view that we have the challenges in relation to China, but there are also important opportunities, and they are taken better advantage of this agreement. It is also better to be able to push for values.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-284	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. The public utility has so far consisted of municipal housing companies with the task of providing rental apartments for all residents of the country. The apartments have been allocated through a municipal housing queue where social management one in the municipalities has had to provide a small number of apartments. This worked well until the 21st century when overseas immigration took off and a new group needed housing. It was a group of people who did not have the financial means to obtain housing themselves. Since the turn of the millennium, 2 million residence permits have been issued, and the housing situation in many of the country's municipalities is now very difficult. Representatives of the government-appointed inquiry into socially sustainable housing supply were interviewed recently in Swedish Television and discussed the distribution of public utility apartments as needed instead of after waiting time. Does the Minister also think that the public good should be distributed more than today, rather than after waiting time, as needed?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-288	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Strandman, for an urgent question! The function of the housing market is of course crucial for a lot of things in Sweden: for us to have a functioning labour market, for you to be able to apply for the education you want and for us to be able to have a functioning economy. That is why I am pleased that the government has made great efforts to improve the functioning of the housing market, not least through the large investment aid we are now providing and which means that we currently have a building at historically high levels. Unlike what it was like under the previous moderate-led government, we now also have a building that is above population growth, as we are now beginning to gradually get a better situation in the housing market. Of course, we have major challenges with population groups that find it difficult to get into the regular housing market. We must make further efforts there. One such thing is that we have now directed investment aid to those particular groups so that every eighth apartment will go to a young person or to the municipalities in order to meet social needs. We are prepared to do more, and the investigation will look further at these issues.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-293	Madam President, I would like Is there not a risk then, the Government, that the incentives for municipalities to build rental apartments will be reduced if they know that these dwellings will not go to people who are normally in the labour market but that they will instead be allocated to people who live on subsistence support and so on? Isn't there a risk that these will be vast alienation areas?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-294	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not share that assessment. On the contrary, I see that there is a great deal of commitment on the part of the municipalities and the common good in terms of ensuring the social needs of our society. It is completely wrong, as Mikael Strandman did initially, to refer the housing shortage to that it has to do with migration. On the contrary, we, who have been involved in this debate for a long time, know that we have been facing challenges in the housing market for a long time. These are challenges that we need to solve, but which are due to the fact that far too little has been built for too long. Now the municipalities are on a completely different level, and I am pleased about that.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-296	Madam President, I would like We are in Old Town, Bellman Stockholm. On the cobbled streets outside, there were about 700 restaurants in Bellman's time. Now is the time of the pandemic. New figures from the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce show that in the first week of 2021 the turnover of Stockholm's restaurants fell by 70 per cent. Despite the fact that the Center Party is now pushing for increased support, the situation is still dark as a eighteenth-century night. This is of course the worst for restaurant owners and their employees, but there are also other problems. The police testify that criminal networks are now looking for restaurants in crisis and are using the pandemic to strengthen their interests.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-299	Madam President, I would like As with all other law enforcement activities, it is largely a matter of ensuring that law enforcement authorities have the resources they need to fight crime. There have been huge efforts here, not least on the police. As recently as yesterday, another litter of policemen went out, from the new police training in Malmö that we started a few years ago. Now we're in a situation where we have more cops than ever before. There are also fewer police officers leaving, and more are being re-cruited. And the government continues to expand it. As far as the traders mentioned by Mr Hervieu are concerned, I think it is also a question of going in with good support to ensure that they do not end up in the situation they have ended up in. To make it easier for traders, we look forward to ensuring that, together with the Center Party, among other things, continue to expand these subsidies.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-302	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Center Party is truly committed to pushing for those subsidies. The Government knows that very well. We're not gonna let the community take a run bill, so to speak, and leave the restaurant business in the lurch. My question, however, was about the more acute crisis, right now. It is of course good to have new recruits, police officers returning to duty and so on. However, I asked about specific actions aimed at those sectors that are particularly affected. Does the government intend to bring any of these?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-305	Madam President, I would like It is part of the general police mission to fight crime wherever it occurs. I hope that during this type of development there is a good dialogue between the traders who have been exposed on the one hand and the local police on the other. The police have an obligation to act on that kind of development when you see it. Of course, we will continue to follow this issue closely in the coming months, as long as this exists. But it is also a question of ensuring that the resources we have set aside have an impact on the fight against crime.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-309	Madam President, I would like By 2020, another bleak record year. 47 people were shot to death, about one a week. And the youngest victim was only 12 years old. Violence and shootings have become everyday in Sweden. City after city is put in terror. Also 2021 has got a dark start. On the second day of the year, Joakim Forsberg, father of young children, was stabbed to death. The killer had escaped during a leave; he was already convicted of murdering a 17-year-old guy. Stefan Löfven has said in the government declaration after the government declaration that serious crime should be broken. But it's just getting worse. Morgan Johansson! When is the government going to start doing what is necessary? Maybe you can start by stopping the escapes. The police shouldn't have to hunt the same killer several times over. And citizens of Sweden should be able to trust that murderers are locked up.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-312	Madam President, I would like I certainly agree that the police should not have to hunt the same killer twice. That's why I'm happy about the big investments that were made about 14 – 15 years ago when there were a lot of problems with escapes from prison. This strengthened the security of the prison system in general, in such a way that we now have no such deviations from the prison system. I know that there are other businesses that have other kinds of problems, and they have to be addressed. However, the efforts that have been made in the area of penitentiary care are important. It is, once again, about stopping the shootings, simply about making sure that the most crime-active individuals are caged in. There, the major investments we make on the police and on the other judicial systems are of great importance. We will continue to push these issues forward with all our energy.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-315	Madam President, I would like The escape this is about in the example I mentioned was from forensic psychology. We also see recurring escapes from Sis homes. Action by the government is needed here. It is not enough simply to say fair words, which we even belong here today. New press conferences or unconditional investigations are not enough. The government has to do whatever it takes. There is a whole battery of measures and announcements that the Riksdag has decided on. Nevertheless, the government does not go along with what is necessary to seriously stop crime. Why not?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-318	Madam President, I would like Since I became Minister of Justice, I think I have submitted over 200 proposals to this Parliament. Everyone's been through. We have tightened the penalties for almost all the serious violent crimes, for the serious weapons offences, for drug offences and for a large number of other crimes. We have also spent more money on the law enforcement authorities than any other government has. And we are now building the police in such a way that there are now more police officers than ever before. Then security needs to be further strengthened, not least at Sis homes. We have just allocated additional funds for security-enhancing measures there.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-321	Madam President, I would like In the fight against serious organised crime, one of the crucial points is to stop the recruitment of young people. At the turn of the year, the new penalty for youth surveillance was introduced into the Swedish legal system. The aim is precisely to have more and better alternatives to be able to intervene against young people who have committed crimes. The sanction can be used in cases where juvenile care or youth services are not sufficient. Among other things, so-called holiday home arrest was introduced, which means that young people may be forced to stay at home on weekends. Sanctuary home arrest is controlled by anklet. The penalty is also linked to a specific individual action plan concerning, for example, schooling, care and treatment. The sanctions for youth surveillance are welcome and play an important role. Of course, that is not enough. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Justice is: what other measures is the government taking to stop the recruitment of criminals?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-325	Madam President, I would like The measure referred to by Inge Ståhlgren, youth monitoring, came into force on 1 January. It is a way of breaking new recruits to the criminal gangs at an earlier stage. We must, of course, cage the most criminally active individuals. So do we now. We're filling up both jails and prisons. However, we must also ensure that in the past some young people have a negative development. This is done by means of the holiday home arrest, which is monitored with the help of a anklet. But it is also linked to social work. What else should be done? I think it is now important for the local government sector to respond to the major efforts made by the state in the fight against crime. When the state goes in with a lot of money to the police and other judicial authorities, the municipal sector must use the large surpluses it has to invest in school, social services and leisure activities to help carry out offensive preventive activities. I think that is extremely important in the future.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-328	Madam President, I would like No young person should have to get involved in crime or see crime as a possible path in the future. It is therefore a good thing that the government takes this issue very seriously. In order to prevent young people from entering crime, both preventive measures and consequences are needed when crime is committed. Youth monitoring is an example of the latter.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-331	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, I think that the local government sector also needs to take greater responsibility now. The municipal sector had a surplus of perhaps SEK 40 to 50 billion last year. Then my note is that some of that money should be used to put in early action for children and young people who are at risk of criminality. Now use some of the surplus – for school, social services and leisure activities! That is my call to the local government sector.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-334	Madam President, I would like Last year there were many shootings in Sweden. It's one of our biggest social problems. What is positive, however, is that the situation in Malmö has actually improved significantly. Compared to 2017, the number of shootings decreased by good two thirds. That, of course, does not in any way mean that the problem is gone. Twenty of them are 20 too many. But the trend is positive, and it is clear. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that there was an increased interest in defectors' activities, which are run by the police together with in this case the City of Malmö and the Prison Service. Some fifty people signed up for it, which is gratifying.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-337	Madam President, I would like I, too, have been following the work of the Malmö police and Malmö municipalities against this for many years. I remember very well how the discussion sounded around 2017 when we had the high speeches. In 2017, there were nearly 65 shootings. Now, as I said, it's gone down. Last year, there were 20 shootings. In these years there has been a decrease of almost 70%. Part of the explanation for the success is the close cooperation that exists between the municipality and the police. Another part that the police are happy to highlight is the project Stop shooting. I was a part of picking it up from the US in 2016. Now this has been run as a pilot project in Malmö. It puts increased pressure on gang criminals while increasing defection activities so that they have a way out of criminal life. I think it has been very important, but we will see how it is. There will be a more formal evaluation of this in the near future.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-339	Madam President, I would like It's quite right to stop shooting has been an incredibly important thing. It has sometimes been ridiculed in some places, but now you can see that it may have been of great importance and effective. Another important thing is cooperation between authorities, not least in order to access illegal money. Does the government intend to go further and deepen and intensify this work so that agencies can work more effectively together?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-341	Madam President, I would like We will certainly continue to do so. For a number of years, there has been cooperation between authorities at central level, but also at local and regional level. The story of Stop shooting began when we were on a study visit to New York, and then we asked those who for a very long time had worked against gang crime if there was any way of working in the United States that we could use in Sweden. They then referred to the Group Violence Intervention project, which they had used. It will probably prove to have been very successful. I think that this should also be spread to the rest of Sweden.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-344	Madam President, I would like The ban on serving alcohol at the restaurant after 20 o'clock is extended until 24 January. This gives a continued decline for the tourism industry. Crows are in despair. Lives are to be saved, and we're to keep the pandemic at bay. At the same time, however, solutions are needed, either in the form of compensation or being open with covid-19 security. Bankruptcies and mass unemployment are at the door. Industry lacks foresight and dialogue with the government. Why does the government choose to give such late news when companies scream for clarity and foresight and want to contribute solutions? They are close to the brink of bankruptcy. My question goes to Per Bolund.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-346	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! We are all aware that we are in a serious situation in Sweden. The spread of infection is still high, and we must do everything we can to reduce disease and save human lives. It puts a lot of strain on society as a whole. Unfortunately, this is a fact that we have to live with. The government is doing everything in its power to both provide care with the resources it needs and impose the necessary restrictions to reduce the spread of infection. We are also making great efforts to make financial contributions to the activities concerned. This is done not least to save Swedish companies and jobs. We keep doing that. We have constantly given notice of the restrictions that apply. We are trying to do this in as good time as possible. At the same time, we must constantly sense where we are in the spread of the disease and adapt the restrictions to it. However, the Government's ambition is always to provide information as early as possible.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-349	Madam President, I would like It cannot be said that good time is a signature of the government. Companies and their organisations, like trumpet fans, have tried to come up with solutions to contribute and help them to use their own solutions. They have also had talks with the government. They want to know whether to continue borrowing or whether to close their doors. They need to plan their operations if they are not to have to take even more loans and end up further down in the depths.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-352	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not share that assessment. On the contrary, the government has given information in advance, and often very good ones. For example, we have said that the efforts we are making in the form of short-term lay-off and other financial support will run until the mid-yearly term, which is many months ahead. However, we must constantly ensure that restrictions are adapted to the current state of infection. I do not think that there is anyone who runs a restaurant now who should not see with great concern the infection situation that prevails in Sweden. It has to be seen that it is actually important that we keep to the restrictions that are currently in force.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-354	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Jennie Nilsson, and it is about beach protection and the Strandskyddsutvetenmenten. The basic idea of beach protection rules is good, but the rules hinder rural development. There is a great need to ease beach protection requirements in rural areas in order to facilitate the construction of homes, cottages and agricultural buildings. Much can be done without jeopardising accessibility for the public and natural values. The report of the Strandskyddsförsökningen suggests welcome reliefs. But this is not the first time that we have tried to simplify the construction of rural areas. The rules were made in 2009, but today there are more protected watercourses than in 2009. Would the Minister like to carry out the investigation's proposal? How will the minister make it easier to build beachfront in the countryside, and this time for real?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-358	Madam President, I would like This is not really an issue that lies in my department, but the issue of beach protection as such, of course, still has an interest in rural policy. I'm following it very closely. As Staffan Eklöf says, it is not the first time that these issues have been reviewed. The big challenge is that we have very different needs in different parts of the country. I sometimes say that we must ensure that we in Sweden have regulations in place that do not rely too much on just the standards of big cities. This is a clear example of this. I have great hopes that with the investigation we will be able to move the positions and get a more differentiated beach protection that takes greater account of what it actually looks like. But the investigation has just been submitted and is now being processed at the Government Office. It will be consulted and will eventually land in this Chamber. It is therefore a little too early to draw too much conclusions about what the overall assessment will be after we have had the entire consultation round.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-361	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that the Minister is in favour of differentiated rules for rural and urban areas. I wonder if the Minister thinks it would be a good idea to set targets and measure if rural construction increases and if it all results in positive development for rural areas in particular.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-363	Madam President, I would like Yes, I definitely think that you should always try to have clear and measurable goals, work with evaluation and be prepared to adapt to the outcome. What sometimes looks good on paper and is a good intention may not be as desired when launched. You yourself described the development of opportunities to build on rural areas after the latest investigations, Staffan Eklöf. That's not a bad idea. I'll take it with me.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-364	Madam President, I would like Right now there's a series on P1 called Lawless Country, which I recommend to the Minister of Justice and everyone else to listen to. It's about drug-driving, which is something that's increasing a lot. In the program I just listened to, there is a man who loses his partner and his father. They're on their way home. On the trailer they have a cabin for their little boy. Sambon and his father lose their lives. The perp has done the exact same thing time and again - nothing has happened. The police say they can't do anything, because it gives you such short sentences; it gives you a fine. I myself get very upset when I listen to this, and I know that this is a growing problem, especially in rural areas. I also know that there is an investigation on the table of the Minister of Justice since November 2019. To my dismay, I now saw that there was no bill on the table. What's going on?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-367	Madam President, I would like That investigation was set up by me once because I had become exactly as upset as Mikael Oscarsson about a number of such cases, where people have repeatedly committed the same crimes without any real concrete intervention being possible. I would like to increase the possibilities of detention in these cases and ensure that the penalties are tightened. There is, as Mikael Oscarsson says, a complete bill. We are working on this, and I will go to Parliament when we are done with the preparation. No one should be in doubt that I also want to try to do something about these cases, where people repeatedly drive with alcohol or other drugs in their bodies. We certainly have to do something about this.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-369	Madam President, I would like What the upset police officers are saying is that this person and the others who commit these traffic and drug offences can only be sentenced to fines or shorter prison sentences. You can't take your driver's license from them directly and in no way detain them. We can't have this. It took the lives of these people. It's dangerous on the roads. In this particular case, it was also taking a woman's life just two weeks before. When does the bill arrive at Parliament's table?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-371	Madam President, I would like I absolutely share that anger and frustration about this case. I think it has been far too long without us being able to do anything about it. But we can now, because now we have a bill on the table. As soon as we finish the preparation, we will proceed to the Riksdag but this kind of tightening up, so that one can increase the possibility of such detentions and also impose high penalties on these individuals.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-372	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Trade Anna Hallberg. On 1 January this year marked not only a new year but also the UK's final withdrawal from the European Union. The UK is one of Sweden's most important trading partners. Over 6 000 Swedish companies have been trading with the UK for a long time and need stability to secure growth and job creation. At the same time, the whole of 2020 has consisted of intensive negotiations between the EU and the UK on a trade and cooperation agreement, which came into place at the end of December. My question to the Minister for Foreign Trade is thus: What will the new trade agreement mean for Swedish companies, Swedish exports and Swedish growth?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-375	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Bayibsa for the question. This is an important milestone. It is a conclusion to the relationship in the internal market with the United Kingdom, but also a tremendously important step forward. This will mean a great deal to Swedish companies and to the 70 000 employees in the companies that trade with the UK every day. We from the government are very pleased with the agreement, because it is a broad, deep and modern free trade agreement. In this context, however, I would like to say that it will be much more difficult than in the past to deal with the United Kingdom. In the internal market, the conditions are completely different. Having said that, we see that this agreement is a platform that is more than just a base. It is a broad and deep platform. Then there are certain issues that we need to negotiate further. But the agreement provides very good conditions for Swedish companies to continue trading with the UK.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-380	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. Yesterday, the mission ran a review programme on slaughterhouses and farms that violate the Animal Welfare Act. Before that, TV4 showed terrible clips of gross animal abuse, thanks to the fact that a non-profit organization had placed a camera that was filmed – something that today is punishable but should be a legal requirement. On the film we see that the laws were followed as soon as the visitors came for announced control. It shows a terrible flaw with incredibly much unnecessary suffering as a result. To ensure that this never happens, total transparency must be allowed by society. This is something that the Swedish Veterinary Association has proposed and that the UK, France and Norway already have. At Jennie Nilsson it sounded yesterday that there was openness to this. How do we proceed with camera monitoring and total transparency in the animal industry?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-383	Madam President, I would like I thank Rebecka Le Moine for the question. I was also deeply upset and shaken by the images we could see in the media. We have and will have strong animal welfare in Sweden. We constantly work to strengthen it. We got a new animal welfare law in place as late as 2019. Last year, I received an investigation into sanctions and offences against animals. But that is not enough, but we need to be prepared to ensure that we have the most effective tools to ensure compliance with the legislation. I'm not ruling out that camera surveillance could be part of it. That is something we will have to look at further together with the industry. Yesterday I noted with pleasure that Krav stated that they were prepared to take the initiative themselves to do this on their farms, which I think can be the most rapid way. If a consensus can be found and the industry takes its own responsibility, it goes faster than legislation. But we're working in parallel.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-386	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Another topical issue is the mink farms. They represent enormous suffering, motivated by a few jobs. Now we know what a huge risk these mink farms are to spread contagion and mutated forms of covid. In the Netherlands and Denmark, the spread of the virus has caused closure of the country's furry animal industries. How does the Minister for Rural Development intend to continue working on this issue?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-388	Madam President, I would like We are following this issue very closely and have done so throughout the journey. We had found infection on about half of the farms in Blekinge during the autumn. This meant that all farms were subject to restrictions. We continue to follow this issue very closely. What is most relevant now, for example, is to look at how to handle breeding and new hills by spring. We will come back to that shortly.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-389	Madam President, I would like Since March, the border with Norway has in principle been closed, with the exception of work commuting. It has had very large and serious consequences for the people and businesses of our border regions. Thousands have been alerted or have already left their jobs. The government has failed in its commitment and has not given affected companies and municipalities enough of the support they need. Ever since the coronapandemy struck, the day-to-day border crossing has been very difficult. Now after the turn of the year, Norway closed a long line of roads into the country and introduced new test rules. This has created new problems and has made everyday life even more difficult for very many commuters who are forced to take long detours and stand in long queues past customs stations.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-392	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hultberg for a question about something that I have really been involved in. I do not share the view that the Swedish Government has not been involved. We have been deeply involved, above all, perhaps I as responsible Minister for the Nordic Region. I really understand the difficult situation that prevails in everyday life. I have had a lot of contact with companies and municipalities, even on the Norwegian side of the border, where one also experiences a great frustration. We are constantly having a dialogue with the Norwegian Government to try to find openings. We have also succeeded in this with both Denmark and Norway in terms of sub-regional solutions and solutions for border municipalities. So far there has been a greater challenge with Norway, but we are not giving up on it. We have a comprehensive financial support package which, of course, applies to all companies. Companies in border municipalities can also take part in this. I would also like to say that I think we need to be prepared that the border trade on which many border counties have been so dependent may change for good after the pandemic. We must take up the height of this and help with retraining and conversion in those municipalities. We are deeply committed to this too on the part of the government.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-397	Madam President, I would like At the turn of the year, Ringhals 1 was disconnected from the power grid, perhaps for good. This again meant that the government shuts down already functioning nuclear power that is climate-smart. Now that it is winter and cold in Sweden, a fact that should not surprise the government, we can see that electricity consumption is increasing. We cannot reach up with the production we have from wind power and solar power that is smaller and in some cases non-existent. Instead, the result is that we are increasing our dependence on coal power, and we can see trends in imports from our neighbouring countries. The power reserve, which is fired with heavy oil, is getting ready. We have gas turbines that are ready for the kind of extreme situations that arise. So what is happening now is that we are becoming more dependent and putting our trust in coal, oil and gas in order to be able to cope with our energy supply. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask the Government and Minister Per Bolund why it is more important to shut down clean climate-smart nuclear power than to save the climate.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-401	Madam President, I would like The issue is not consistent with reality. It is not the government that is shutting down electricity production in Sweden. It is the owners who decide which production you think is profitable to operate and which you do not think is. It has been decided that the Ringhals reactor is not profitable to operate, and we respect that. Nor does the description correspond with reality. On the contrary, Sweden has a record surplus of electricity. Last year 25 terawatt hours were exported from Sweden. That's four Ringhal reactors. The description that Sweden would have a shortage of electricity simply does not match reality. We also have a huge expansion of electricity generation in Sweden. Wind power, for example, broke Swedish record last year with almost 28 terawatt hours. This is an increase of 40 per cent compared with the year before alone. We also see the price development that the price has been at record low levels in Sweden. The constant description that we would have some kind of power shortage or electricity crisis in Sweden is simply not true.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-405	Madam President, I would like There are many of us who have watched the news in recent days and were deeply concerned about the situation in some of the country's abattoirs. Safeguarding the Animal Welfare Act and ensuring that we comply with animal welfare is important for us social democrats. It is also particularly remarkable that the reports we have heard about the fact that it affects the Required Abattoirs as much as other abattoirs. We have one of the world's strictest animal welfare laws. My question to Rural Minister Jennie Nilsson is therefore: how can we ensure that we take further steps so that we, as consumers, can trust that the laws and rules that exist are complied with?
i-CfrRF1hL7BZHRFhmtRqWfD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä! These are outrageous images we see. It is very important that you use all your power and influence wherever you are in this situation. You have great power as a consumer, you have great power as a nourishment and you have great power as a politician. We need to work in parallel with continuing to ensure that we have a strong level of animal protection and that we develop effective systems to ensure compliance with the legislation. There are two things in particular that are important in this context. One is sanctions, crimes and punishment. There we received an investigation which I received last year and which is on its way to Parliament. It is a question of reviewing how to strengthen penalties for serious animal offences, for example. The second is to ensure that you have good control functions. It is a task that is handled by the authorities and county boards in the first place. We have a dialogue with them on both how often controls are needed, how and what tools are needed.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-410	Madam President, I would like Gunshots and shootings continue to plague our country. It has been happening for many years, but unfortunately it has escalated in recent years. Last year, 2020, we broke a boring record with almost 350 shootings and 44 deceased. We have heard about this before. But that is still unacceptable. No one doubts the government's will to do anything about it. But I'm worried that reality is running away from us. We know a lot. We know that the majority of acts are gang-related. We know that it is being pushed more often in particularly vulnerable areas. We also know that our neighbours in Denmark have overcome precisely this type of shooting. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to ignore the success of the Danes over the last three years. You can compare Sweden's 44 last year with Denmark's 8. My question today is: how many shootings are required before Morgan Johansson and the government switch up to a law enforcement level similar to that in Denmark, which is required to deter these types of shootings?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-414	Madam President, I would like We look at many different examples. Denmark is one of the examples we are looking at. Last year we appointed a special investigator, Anders Perklev, who is going to review criminal law related to gang crime. He will present his report in June this year. In the Investigation Directive, we say, among other things, that the investigation should see if there is anything that is further done in other countries, including Denmark, that we might need to do here in Sweden. Let's do that. Emma Ahlström Ahlström sometimes does not have to go abroad to look at successful examples. We have discussed Malmö just before in this House, where the shootings and shootings have decreased by 70% since 2017. It may also be such an example as other municipalities and police activities look at to see how you can work very efficiently. We also remember that there were discussions about Malmö a few years ago. Now it may go from Malmö being a deterrent to becoming a pattern of how to work against shootings and explosions in the country as a whole.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-418	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Housing. Since the government took office in 2014, we have had a constant housing shortage in Sweden. Construction corresponds only to population growth. There is therefore only one zero-sum game in terms of construction. Only the pandemic has been an exception in 2020 when it comes to housing versus population growth. During the years that the government has ruled Sweden, several billion SEK has been pumped into housing construction for inefficient housing subsidies, which in practice have only been used to build housing for newly arrived migrants. Why is the destructive migration policy more important than remedying the housing shortage that we see in Sweden?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-422	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with that description at all. I do not think Roger Hedlund has updated figures on how the construction takes place in Sweden. The Boverket came just recently with an updated forecast for last year and for this year. This shows that we are now based in Sweden on record levels. It has not been built at this level in many decades before. It is important to see that we are not building as Roger Hedlund says. On the contrary, we are building on population growth and thus keeping step by step, if we can keep in this building act, to reduce the housing shortage in our country. Of course, the housing shortage is not solved in a year or even five or six years, but requires long and urgent work. What we will never be allowed to return to is the terrible and extremely low build-up act that was in place during the time before the government took office. This has been countered by, among other things, an active housing policy in which we also encourage the construction of rental apartments. Now we see how it is built twice as many rental apartments than right-of-occupancy apartments in Sweden because the government has an active policy.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-428	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister Anna Hallberg. Nordic cooperation is very important to us. We're the same, we're close, and we can learn a lot from each other. We are several smaller countries, in terms of population. But together we can get stronger, and we need each other. We are being reached by many reports that there are major difficulties and that it has been during the pandemic. They are children who are not allowed to see their parents, long queues to work and so on. It is serious because it creates irritation, fear, grief and tension. There is a risk that this will affect Nordic cooperation in the future. My question to Minister Anna Hallberg is: What do you have to convey in the short term to those who live in the border regions and, above all, are affected by this? I also wonder: how can we develop Nordic cooperation in the longer term after this?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-432	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lindh, for the question! There is no doubt that Nordic cooperation has been subjected to great trials for almost a year. It's been a wake-up call for many of us. I see that there are great opportunities to learn something from this crisis as well. The dialogue is currently very intense between our governments, and there is a good will to quickly get out of the locked situation of border closures. On the Swedish side, I have proposed a new model for cooperation between the Nordic co-operation ministers and that we need to raise the Nordic perspective more clearly in the decisions made by each government that affect the other Nordic countries. We shall have a closer dialogue, and we shall be more coordinated out of this crisis but also into the next crisis. I look forward with deep confidence to the fact that we will also have learned something from this and that cooperation will be deepened and further developed. However, I also agree that there is currently a difficult situation and that our citizens are experiencing many difficulties. Then we also have a responsibility to take care of this right now.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-437	Madam President, I would like On Tuesday, Britain's Foreign Minister Dominic Raab told us that it will introduce measures to stop the trade in goods made under slave-like conditions by Uighur prisoners in China. These include financial sanctions against British companies which import or earn money from such goods. The evidence of China's repression of the Uighur minority is increasing and increasing. Prisoners who have been arbitrarily imprisoned have been systematically used as cheap labour by the regime. It is already known that Swedish companies have also used manufacturers who in turn have used Uigurian prisoners as labour. My question to Minister for Foreign Trade Anna Hallberg is whether she is prepared to act in order for the EU to introduce measures similar to those now imposed by the United Kingdom.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for the question – a very topical one! I mentioned earlier in the debate in this House the question of the agreement in principle on an investment agreement made by the EU and China. It is an important platform for discussing and addressing these very difficult issues too, not least the issue mentioned by David Josefsson. From a Swedish perspective, we see very clearly that we have – as I mentioned earlier and on which we have had a discussion in this House – these challenges and opportunities with regard to China. We must not back away from the challenges that exist, and we must also raise the difficult issues in all talks between governments. However, we must also make demands on our companies and demand that they ensure their supply chains so that they meet human rights requirements. Maybe it's another area. But I am happy to come back to that question, too, because this is all connected. I share the concerns, but we also have proposals for solutions and a way forward in the discussion with China on these issues.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-445	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have long wanted to criminalise prison escapes or deviations from other criminal sanctions. Unfortunately, it has now been shown that shortcomings linked to escapes or anomalies have led to the murder of an innocent father of young children by a dangerous convicted murderer. And it is not the first time that a lax approach to these issues has led to serious consequences. The law enforcement authorities are in a position to track down people who are on the run because of lack of tools and lack of a criminal suspicion. Now we are several parties in opposition who are behind proposals to criminalise escape and open up secret coercive measures against escapes or those who have deviated from, for example, forensic psychiatry. My question to the Minister for Justice is what the government's motive has been for voting against these proposals for six years in government. These are proposals that could have saved lives with the help of the rapporteur. And is the government now prepared to reconsider its opposition to the Swedish Democrats' proposals to secure society against dangerous individuals?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-449	Madam President, I would like The measures taken by this government and the previous government to increase the security of the prison system have had tangible effects. I remember very well when, 15 to 16 years ago, we had problems with many prison escapes, partly as a result of the fact that safety was too bad. Then they took a strong hold and made sure to strengthen safety in general so that we now almost have no such escapes at all. We will, of course, continue to do this. In the last part, as far as the State Departmental Board is concerned, we are allocating increased resources precisely to this authority in order to increase safety and to ensure that the risk of escape is reduced. That is probably needed, also because there is a different clientele now at that authority than might have been the case 10 to 15 years ago. As far as criminal law is concerned, of course, we always make assessments gradually, but legislation that can have an effect must be brought forward. That is what is important, and at the moment I think it is the security issues that are the most important to work on.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-453	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. In three weeks I have been a substitute for Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin from Dalarna. He's coming back, and I'm going back as chairman of the Social Services Board of Mora with responsibility for elderly care and social services. During my years as Chairman of the Social Welfare Board, I have met with many of the major interest groups. A constant question that comes up concerns the cash and how to solve the problem of them in the cashless society. The problem is mainly among older people.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-457	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Höglund, for the question! The government's position is that every person in Sweden should be able to manage their finances and payments in the way that suits that person. Many of us find it amazing to be able to go into the internet bank in the middle of the night and pay our bills or handle transfers. For others it is better to be able to use cash. This is what the government is trying to take heights for in different ways. One way is to ensure that we make demands in the law that you should not have too long distances to be able to deposit and withdraw cash in Sweden. It is also legislation that the Parliament has supported and which is now in force in our country. But we continue to work to ensure that there are opportunities to use cash. We will now review in a new investigation what is the responsibility of the state to ensure that cash handling works throughout our country, for example with cash depots and the like, so that it should not be too long distances when transporting cash. The attitude is that we should welcome the possibilities of digitalisation but also make sure that there are opportunities for people to make their payments in cash if you like.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-463	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. The government has announced a certain reduction in youth reduction for people between 18 and 21 years of age. However, the age category 15 to 17 is still silent even though many active criminals are at these very ages. Younger people in alienation areas are used as minions for older criminals, and it is not uncommon for 15, 16 and 17-year-olds to commit very serious crimes such as murder, assault and rape. Even with the modified reduction for adult criminals – which Parliament wants in an announcement to be completely abolished – criminals between 15 and 17 years of age who have committed serious crimes will still be sentenced to very low penalties. A 15-year-old who commits a rape can be assumed to have his sentence reduced by 80 percent. If you're going to break a criminal path, you need a reaction that's related to the crime. Victims who are victims of the younger and younger criminals will receive redress.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-468	Madam President, I would like It is true that we are working on a bill to remove the penalty reduction for 18 to 20-year-olds who commit crimes that are serious and that give over a year's imprisonment. It should be said that this already means a sharp tightening up. For example, it involves doubling the penalty for an 18-year-old who commits a robbery. We are therefore making a very strong tightening of the regulatory framework. When it comes to the 15 to 17-year-olds, I think it must be clear to them that they are children in the sense of the law. One should have a difference, I think, between children and adults and how to handle these individuals. For example, if children and adults are mixed in the same places or if children are treated as adults, there is a very high risk of leading them into increased crime. That is precisely why Sweden, like all other countries, I say, has special rules for children. And I think we should continue to have that.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-472	Madam President, I would like Crisis management and crisis management are currently a highly topical issue. During this year's pandemic crisis, it has become clear that the Swedish crisis management needs to be completely renovated. Last year, the government identified a number of airports around Sweden as emergency airports – but far from all. Unfortunately, a number of airports are now under threat of closure. One of them is Västerås Airport. In the event of closure, Västmanland as a region will not be able to receive ambulance flights or organ donations. The region will also lack fire aircraft, something that we know played a crucial role during the big fire in Sala 2014. At a time when we invest in and invest in Swedish crisis and defence capabilities, it is a mystery that the government is watching when Swedish infrastructure is dismantled. I would therefore like to ask Minister Per Bolund how society can act quickly in the event of a hostile attack when crisis management clearly does not work.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-475	Madam President, I would like The government has acted forcefully to make major sharpenings of the ability to face various forms of crisis. Among other things, we have invested a great deal of resources in upgrading and enabling the military defence to face various forms of attack. We have also invested considerable resources in improving crisis management and crisis management in civil defence. Of course, we are also continuing to work on many other aspects of crisis management and have made great efforts compared to what it looked like under previous governments, of which I am proud. This is a work that will never be finished. We will continue to prepare ourselves to handle crises better and better as the journey progresses. As far as airports are concerned, it is not obvious that crisis management must be based on the fact that each municipality has its own airport or similar. On the contrary, we must ensure that crisis management functions in a broader sense. It may then be effective for some airports to be closed down while other ways of reinforcing communications are being used. The overall picture is something we make an assessment of. We will have to return to which airports are needed for Sweden to have a functioning crisis management.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-479	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Hallberg. Sweden stands out well in comparison with its Nordic neighbours when it comes to the spread of infection and the number of deaths in covid-19. Our management of the pandemic has also differed considerably from our neighbouring countries, which greatly affected mobility, cooperation and also confidence in our country. The initial coordination in the Nordic countries was almost non-existent, as the Government itself has pointed out in different contexts. The Swedish government has gone its own way in relation to neighbouring countries, as in the migration crisis of 2015. The Pandemin has been the second historical event in a few years where Sweden shoots itself further away from the Nordic community. Trust is severely damaged. The parliamentary delegation made a statement regarding the pandemic and its consequences for border regions before Christmas. My question to the Government is what initiatives the Government intends to take to implement the Nordic Council's strategy for social protection and preparedness and whether these initiatives intend to hook arms with the Government mentioned earlier about a new consultation model.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-482	Madam President, I would like Sweden is more affected than its neighbouring countries in the Nordic countries in terms of the pandemic. We still don't know why. There is a Commission that is working right now, and I believe that for a long time now we will have a need to analyse why Sweden is being hit harder than its neighbours. However, we share the fate of being hard hit with many other countries in the EU, compared with Norway and Finland, for example, who stand out the other way. With regard to the impact on confidence, I do not agree with Mr Emilsson that our confidence in our neighbouring countries has been adversely affected. We have deep and good cooperation and, as I mentioned earlier, it has rather been strengthened during this period. When it comes to cooperation on preparedness and to face the next crisis, but also to get out of this crisis, I would like to repeat what I said earlier: we will certainly work more closely and more coordinatedly, and there is a will on the part of all the Nordic countries to do so. That's what we're working on right now. There will be clarity both in terms of getting out of this crisis and in the face of the next crisis.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-485	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. This concerns the forest investigation that has come and, to say the least, has upset a great deal. I have been in contact with a number of forest owners up in Jämtland. A large part of the designated mountain forests do not seem to contain the values claimed by the investigation. The study says that provisions need not be made for biological and genetic diversity but for their value as coherent ecosystems. The problem is that much of what has been pointed out is not connected. These are areas that have not previously been used and that are fragmented by forest road networks. Is it really a social democratic view that we should set aside more than 500 000 hectares of forest in the hinterland of Norrland, which could instead contribute to local jobs, municipal tax revenues and green conversion, for climate action?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-488	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Alexandra Anstrell. The forest is very important for Sweden. It stands for jobs and growth, for climate benefits, for biodiversity and many times for recreation. This means that you need to look at the forest from a holistic perspective, while at the same time, from a national perspective, you need to be concerned that we develop all the values that exist with the forest. That is why a number of different work is going on to do just that at the moment. The forestry investigation that was mentioned – which, by the way, is not in my department but of course I am very involved in – is currently being analysed and will go for a referral in order to eventually become a product that lands in this House. We also work with the national forest programme and have initiated work on the bioeconomy strategy. We also work actively towards Brussels to ensure that the regulations and frameworks set up there are well adapted to the conditions that we have in Sweden, which has a lot of forest and a large forestry.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-491	Madam President, I would like In December, the government snuck out three new legislative proposals to supplement the Migration Committee's report. The referral has now come, and it is not a gracious criticism that comes from the heaviest consultation bodies. For example, the Migration Court in Gothenburg points out how unreasonable it is to compare only costs and volumes with the old Aliens Act. This means, in practice, that everything that is just a little better than the 2015 migration accident is approved, according to the government. The Migration Board believes that the proposal for tender reasons will mean that so many will be covered by the provision that it will be the rule rather than the exception. It even means that some proposals go against the very principle of regulated immigration. Given this massive criticism, I would like to ask Minister Johansson whether the government intends to proceed with these proposals.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-495	Madam President, I would like No, we didn't sneak anything out. It is quite difficult to do with everything about migration policy. As soon as you just change a single letter, there are always political forces who want to blow it up and make it even bigger than it really is. That's what Jonas Andersson is doing here and now. I mean, he makes a chicken out of a feather. He blows up a very small part of the total bill and also disfigures it in a way that is not really in line with reality. The total legislative proposal we are working on actually involves a transformation so that we will have the strictest legislation in 40 years, as we move from a permanent residence permit as a general rule to a temporary residence permit. In fact, it also gets tighter than the EU average. In addition, there will be a much better balance between rights and obligations. The bill that we are working on and that we will present to Parliament means that we will continue to have control over migration policy in the future. I can guarantee you that.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-500	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Hallberg and concerns the agreement of principle on trade between the EU and China – the investment agreement, as it is called. In the basic agreement itself, there is a clause concerning forced labour and that this should end. I would like to ask the Government how the Government will work to ensure that it will actually be possible to follow up and also take action if it is the case that China does not comply with the agreement to comply with the ILO Convention and that forced labour will therefore cease. I mention this because it is a matter of fundamental importance because it concerns the core values of the European Union.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for that question! It is truly close to our values in the EU and in Sweden. As I said earlier, it is incredibly positive that we now have a platform to discuss further from outside. For the first time, we have a bilateral agreement which also requires the parties, in this case China, to live up to human rights in general. It is also a question of ratifying the ILO Convention, as Margareta Cederfelt mentions. We in Sweden intend to ensure that it is followed up, that there is dialogue, that demands are made and that this platform can also be used constructively in the dialogue, as well as that companies with supply chains from China and production in China can ensure that they live up to human rights and the ILO Convention. There is, of course, separate legislation in the pipeline, as I mentioned earlier.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-506	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me whether I think it is important for the expert authorities to start from science when decisions are to be taken, what is required for the government to take decisions that do not coincide with the wishes of the expert authorities and what role the government believes the expert authorities have in carrying out impact assessments and external monitoring. Let me begin by reminding the interpeller that studies show that the population has a high level of confidence in Swedish authorities, not least in those who have a special role in dealing with the pandemic. It is of great importance that authorities act and express confidence building based on the current knowledge and competence and experience that the authorities possess. Sweden has independent administrative authorities, and the management of each authority is responsible according to the regulation before the government. The Act on Disease Control (2004:168) states that the Public Health Authority is responsible for coordinating the protection of infection at national level and is to take the necessary initiatives to maintain effective protection of infection. The Public Health Agency is thus an expert authority for disease protection issues. The Authority's instructions indicate that the Public Health Authority is to promote good public health, evaluate the effects of public health practices and strategies, monitor the state of health in the population and the factors affecting it, by building knowledge and disseminating knowledge, promoting health and preventing diseases and injuries, and promoting effective disease protection. The activities shall be on a scientific basis. It is also clear from the Disease Protection Act that measures should be based on science and proven experience. In addition, it is clear from the instructions that the authority must monitor the preparedness of the disease control facility and, within its area of responsibility, initiate measures to protect the population against communicable diseases and other serious health threats in crisis and under increased preparedness. The Swedish Public Health Agency monitors issues in its field and conducts continuous analyses in line with its mission. During the ongoing pandemic, the government has a good dialogue with the relevant authorities. Decisions that lie with the government to take are sought and taken into account by relevant actors, including any authority of experts. The Government is responsible for its decisions and therefore sometimes has to weigh the arguments of different expert authorities and actors to make the decision that is best for Sweden. The government relates to the laws in force at the time.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-513	Madam President, I would like Lena Hallengren mentions in her interpellation response that confidence in the Swedish authorities is high. That is true, but the fact is that confidence in the authorities dealing with the pandemic has decreased during the pandemic. We see an increasing number of nicknames such as the People's Law Authority, the Pack Murder Authority, the Genocide Authority, and so on. Dear child has many names, it is said, but in this case it is not very dear. Nor is it any wonder that more and more people have come to associate this authority, which is responsible for protecting our health, with something quite different. It has begun to be associated with misleading information and unscientific claims. It is the authority to which the Minister of Social Affairs repeatedly refers when discussing strategies for the current pandemic, and it is the authority that has consistently and repeatedly been wrong during the pandemic. I understand that Lena Hallengren herself lacks much of the knowledge she demands in her role as Minister of Social Affairs. It's not that strange. As a minister, there are many different qualifications you can have. In fact, I did not expect the Minister of Social Affairs to have the training required, for example, by a state epidemiologist; instead, her role is to listen to the expertise, just as she repeatedly says she does. The least one could expect, however, is for the Minister to get involved in the situation, to monitor and carry out impact assessments herself and to point out research and to compile the facts on the basis of links. Instead, the slowness and lack of commitment shown by the government during the pandemic makes me wonder whether the Minister for Social Affairs and the Government has any interest whatsoever in these important issues. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Social Affairs also believes in the interpellation response that it is of great importance that authorities, not least the authority we are talking about now, act and express confidence building based on the current state of knowledge and on the competence and experience of the agency. I can see that I fully agree, which makes this situation even more strange. At the beginning of last year, several of us warned against the Swedish strategy and the path that the government chose to take. I have great respect for the fact that there were differences of opinion and that not everyone agreed with us. But it's pretty amazing that no bell rings at the minister or government when almost the whole world acts completely different from Sweden and when the minister's so-called experts are wrong time and time again. When the public health authority's expert surveyor is recurrently wrong, why is the minister still listening to them? It would be more natural then to turn to those who have actually been right – those who initially warned of this and who were scoffed at by the circle of the minister's officials. Sweden has acted reactively instead of proactively, completely contrary to science. And speaking of science, what science has the Public Health Authority leaned against? So far, I have seen no reference to any research that supports the thesis that we should go against more or less the entire world's experts.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-521	Madam President, I would like We could have dealt with two interpellations at the same time, let me say, because I think they go a little into each other. Markus Wiechel will decide for himself when he asks which questions. But now it is specifically about an expert authority and not about the whole strategy. Markus Wiechel describes it, just as some others choose to do and especially afterwards, as that the Swedish strategy would contain some specific action or be very direct. I would like to say that the Swedish strategy is about reducing the spread of infection. It is about saving lives, health and jobs and ensuring that society is actually functioning both during and after a pandemic. We shall lean on science and experience, and we shall take the right measures at the right time. That is why we did not take exactly the same measures at the beginning of the pandemic as we do now that there is another type of fatigue that might mean that we need to have clearer and sharper restrictions in order to have the corresponding effect. For a general public, it may not always be easy to see the role of the expert authorities versus the government, but Markus Wiechel sits in the Swedish parliament and is well aware that we in Sweden have a management structure that means that we do not have gigantic departments. In principle, some countries have all the expertise that the authorities have in their departments. Then one can say that it is the government that makes the decisions, but of course they have a lot of expertise to lean on. It is no understatement to say that the Swedish people have increased their knowledge enormously when it comes to epidemiology. We're very interested. But there are not as many who sit on the deep knowledge. We have an expert authority in the field of infectious diseases, as I described in my reply. If it is an authority to lean on and listen to in other times, it is of course very remarkable if the government, when you come to a pandemic and a virus that nobody knows about, would say: We know better. It will be a bit of a gist if you say: We trust the authority if it thinks as we do. It is, of course, always a matter of listening to whole reasoning and having a dialogue. It's not always just the Public Health Agency. There are other authorities coming in. Sometimes it can be the National Board of Health and Welfare. We have county boards. We have municipalities and regions. We have obtained referrals from a great many when we have taken decisions during this pandemic. With regard to the Pandemic Act, we are talking about a hundred or so. It is clear that we need to constantly weigh the views and advice of expert authorities against other things. But one cannot say that the Public Health Agency has a view and that there is someone else who thinks they have a different view. The Public Health Agency is an authority with, of course, considerably more employees than the few who get to front the media. There is, of course, a very great knowledge behind that is not as visible. For them, as for me and the government, it is, of course, about following what is happening in the outside world and trying to draw conclusions. I feel now that I myself will come in a little bit on the next interpellation and on the strategy. But it's not quite as simple as Markus Wiechel is trying to make it sound. It is not as simple as knowing exactly what action we can take but ignoring it. On the contrary, every country, I would say, is working hard on the question of which measure could work. The measure that some countries seemed to be getting to work in this spring's bites is not at all. Countries which, in principle, were not affected by the spread of infection this spring have now come to the top when it comes to the number of deaths per million inhabitants, even though they actually have corresponding strategies and measures. It's treacherous. It is certainly not simple. There is not really anyone – nor has there been before, if Markus Wiechel excuses – who has presented what measures actually bite. We have taken a number of measures, and we are adjusting them as the state of knowledge develops.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-531	Madam President, I would like I agree with Lena Hallengren that we will probably come back to parts of what we are discussing now in the next debate, not least the root of the Swedish strategy. The Minister refers to the fact that it is easy to be hindsight and that afterwards you can easily point things out and say that it was wrong and this and that. But the fact is that, almost a year ago, warnings came from other countries about this virus. Many experts warned Sweden about what was to come. In fact, the Minister himself said that Sweden was well equipped to face a pandemic. She said this despite the knowledge that the health care system was underfunded and that there were major problems with long care queues. We knew what it looked like in the care of the elderly. I do not know why the Minister is Minister of Social Affairs, but I think that she, too, already realised the critical situation of elderly care in Sweden. Yet, it was thought that one was well equipped. We knew that the emergency stocks were substandard and so on. In fact, the warnings were there. I and many others also warned against this, precisely because we listened to international expertise in this area. It was not between a small group of so - called hobby epidemiologists, as I and many others were called, and the expertise in the field. It stood between a small group of Swedish government officials and virtually the entire world's expertise in this area. That is why most of the world has chosen a different way of working. That is also why Sweden is in so much trouble right now. Just look at our neighbours who have similar conditions. Although Sweden has similar conditions, we have far more deaths per capita than these countries. We come back to this almost all the time with science, because the Public Health Agency and other authorities often refer to science and knowledge. But has the Public Health Agency ever been right in this pandemic? We've seen time and again how they've been wrong. Every scenario they've presented has gone wrong. Rather, many of their claims have proved to be completely unscientific and lacking scientific support. To this day, the government is listening to this authority. I don't understand that. For example, we have heard that children would not infect. We have now seen data that it is rather the opposite: 45% of the infection occurs in primary schools. We have heard that they claim that mouthguards would not help. We know that mouthguards help. Even the simplest masks help. We repeatedly hear unscientific claims from the authority that is to be based on science. And the government listens to that authority, which has consistently and repeatedly been wrong.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-538	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel is not right in this. These are sweeping formulations. It doesn't get really serious, and it's actually not a bit of an exaggeration to say that Markus Wiechel and a number of others have been right all along and knew exactly. I think it will be virtually impossible to stand here and respond to rather unspoken criticism. The Authority has not at any time provided a forecast that is basically like a weather forecast saying: Exactly this is how it will be. It is important to prepare for different scenarios. If Markus Wiechel were to dig a little deeper, he'd see that it's not about hitting so wrong. It's about the knowledge you can lean on. Many times you look at: What was it like last year? What does this season do? How would such an action take place? Of course, when you do something for everyone the first time, it's hard to say you know exactly. You have to lean on other and past knowledge and research about pandemics and viruses and how they spread. Markus Wiechel would be happy to give more concrete examples if I were to respond to that. But I have faith in the Public Health Agency. I know that very large parts of the Swedish people do. I also know that there are those who have been distrusting the authority at exactly the whole time and who think they know better themselves. Once again, I will come to the next interpellation on the strategy itself. But it is not the case, Markus Wiechel, that there is some specific measure that we have refused and that other countries have taken and that has produced a very good result. Unfortunately, it is a fact that virtually all the countries of the European Union have been severely affected. It is rather very interesting to look at Norway and Finland. What is the reason why they have not been severely affected? Belgium is a country that has really taken action – one can speak in terms of completely shutting down, using mouthguards and so on – and which was hit hard both in the first wave, from which, of course, they learned a great deal, and again. I am thinking of the Netherlands and Ireland, which, just before Christmas, felt that they had made it and which is now in a very serious situation. The UK is on its third lockdown. We have Spain and Portugal which are close to each other and which have been affected very differently. We are talking about Italy, but it is not all of Italy. As in Sweden, it has been affected differently. Regulatory frameworks and measures will, of course, come into being in a context. There are evaluations of how one has managed to limit movement patterns. We didn't forbid people to go out. Then the question is how you go out. It is not desirable to say that people may go out 20 minutes if they have a dog. We want people to go out, but we don't want a lot of people to get together. Moving around and getting fresh air is very good for public health and mental health. We must therefore afford both to divide it and to say what measures we are talking about and to weigh them. It is clear that our expert authorities have done an enormous amount of work here, and it is clear that they are monitoring the world around them. Markus Wiechel mentioned in his first speech that he assumed that I and the government were also monitoring the world around – yes, of course we are. But there's not a fact. I didn't say it's easy to be hindsight. There's not even a fact today. It can't be said if we'd just done this or if we'd just done that and that country. Just to take another example that shows how incredibly complex it is, we have countries such as the Czech Republic, which in principle did not feel the first wave. Then you think that they have found an approach. There's a second wave. They are severely affected, are incredibly overloaded and have a mortality rate that is very high. This is not because of insights or because you are not listening to your experts, but because this is a treacherous virus, that the situation is changing and people are more tired of following the recommendations and that the weather is changing. There are many parameters in this, and I would like to say that if we had had a fact, it would surprise me very much if countries did not follow it slavishly.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-549	Madam President, I would like Lena Hallengren sought examples of some figure in what I mentioned earlier. I managed to pick up an article a few days ago that the number of cases of covid-19 in Sweden last week was 72 percent higher than in the scenario published by the Swedish Public Health Agency before Christmas. It is a clear figure of how disastrously wrong the Public Health Agency has been when it comes to scenarios, and this has been recurring. For a while, it was not even thought that there would be a second wave of contamination. It was believed that the general spread in society would make us better equipped than other countries and that we would get away with it more easily later and so on. In fact, that is not the case. On the contrary, the widespread spread of infection has resulted in a significantly higher number of deaths in Sweden. We will come back to that, but the fact is that, when compared with our neighbouring countries which have a much lower mortality rate, the percentage of deaths in, for example, retirement homes is not at all different, but it is about the extent of the infection in society. Despite the fact that it is a new virus, it is a fact that it looks that way, and that is why many have warned against this strategy that many feel resembles a flock immunity strategy that does not want to stop the infection, but merely strive to limit it. That's what pressing the curve is all about. You do not want to try to push it down completely; you should only try to save health care temporarily. It's not working. Again, the government didn't see it coming. I'm not saying I knew exactly what to do. On the other hand, safety should be taken before uncertainty, and this would have meant testing, detecting and isolation.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-554	Madam President, I would like If Markus Wiechel intends to stand and lie in the next debate, I will leave this speaker's seat. We don't have a strategy on flock immunity. There is no one who has said that a little spread of infection is not dangerous or that it does not do so much but only creates a little immunity. That's not true! This has not been expressed at any time. I expect Markus Wiechel not to have that tone and those arguments in the next debate, which deal with the Swedish strategy, but to keep the debate to the strategy. We have undoubtedly had a wide spread of society in Sweden. I have not denied that in any way, and it is clear that this in turn affects the death toll and the burden on care and care for the elderly. Now we are again mixing the spread of infection and the strategy with the role of the expert authorities, but what I am opposed to is the image that the Nordic countries would have done in a very special way. Rather, I say that Sweden has a wide spread of infection that is more similar to the whole of the EU. We're not the worst, even if I don't know which word to use, because it's not a contest. I do not have a single colleague in the European Union, regardless of party colour, who does not fight and toil to take his countries through this pandemic. No one has managed to get through the pandemic without huge consequences for their communities – for jobs, for employment, for mental health in the long term guaranteed, but also for the spread of infection. It's costing lives. Norway and Finland are particularly different. Denmark has been in a much more serious position recently. I shall conclude with what is really the theme of this interpellation, that is, the role of the expert authorities. Their scenario for autumn was that a month earlier we would have a more extensive spread of infection. If you point and say that it should come earlier and end earlier, it is difficult to go in and say that right now they have hit the wrong – this is not a day forecast. It was predicted that there would undoubtedly be a spread of infection. We tried to prepare for it. It got even worse.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-560	Madam President, I would like Those who listen now get a little replay and maybe a depression, what do I know. Markus Wiechel has asked me whether I agree that the government bears the ultimate responsibility for the percentage of deaths in Sweden during the pandemic, what has been good about the Swedish strategy and why the government has stuck to it, and how I think the government has acted during the pandemic and whether there is any decision that I regret or wish that the government had done instead. Swedish emergency preparedness is based on the principle of responsibility. It means that the person responsible for an activity under normal conditions should have it even during crisis or war. Responsibility is thus shared between the various actors in society. During the crisis, many actors have contributed significant efforts to counter the spread of infection and mitigate the effects of the pandemic. The state has, among other things, allocated more than SEK 20 billion in targeted contributions to regions and municipalities for their additional costs due to covid-19 and intends to allocate close to SEK 7 billion to vaccines and vaccinations that have now begun. More than SEK 10 billion have been set aside to support testing and contamination detection in the regions, and billions more have been set aside to save jobs and businesses. The current assessment is that the budget impact measures for 2020 add up to approximately SEK 200 billion. In addition, there are increased guarantees for SEK 250 billion and liquidity enhancements that can amount to SEK 335 billion. In addition, the government has taken a wide range of decisions, including new legislative proposals, with measures to combat the spread of infection. The principle of responsibility and local self-government mean that the responsibilities of the regions, municipalities and other authorities normally remain in the event of a crisis. This means that health care providers and employers are responsible for, for example, protective equipment and basic hygiene practices, and that the regions within their area are responsible for maintaining health care and for taking the necessary disease control measures. Of course, the government and the state authorities also operate under the responsibility principle. Furthermore, everyone is obliged to apply the Public Health Authority's regulations and general advice to prevent the dissemination of covid-19. These are based on the same principles used internationally: keeping your distance, staying at home in case of illness, avoiding new physical social contacts and washing your hands frequently. The extent to which the rules are complied with is crucial to the development of the spread of the disease. As regards the issue of the strategy, it should be borne in mind that, as in most other countries, it aims to limit the spread of the disease and save lives. There has been broad political unity and a close dialogue that has been conducted at weekly meetings between all party leaders in the Riksdag. Political unity also means clarity towards the Swedish people about the importance of following advice and recommendations. The broad political support for the Swedish strategy was an important part of its impact, and I note that the interpellant's colleague Mattias Bäckström Johansson no later than 7 January in Svenska Dagbladet worried that Sweden would depart from the strategy. Several measures have also been taken, reviewed and adjusted over the past year. For example, the limit on how many people can gather at general gatherings and public events has been reduced to eight people. During the spring, the government developed an authorisation law, and now the government has developed a pandemic law. The law will enable the government or authorities to decide on disease control rules in more activities, which could not previously be hit by binding rules. On the other hand, it is absolutely true that Sweden and several other European countries have been severely affected by the ongoing pandemic. I would like to express my deepest condolences to all those who have lost a loved family member or friend and to all those who have become severely or long-term ill. Of course, there are lessons to be learned from the current pandemic. That is an important reason why the government has appointed the Corona Commission. It is also a reason why the government announced before Christmas that a parliamentary committee should be set up to review the powers of the government to act in peacetime crises, such as a pandemic.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-573	Madam President, I would like I would like to make it clear that I do not in any way believe that the Minister for Social Affairs, or the government for that matter, does not want to do what it can to promote public health in this situation or try to limit the spread of the disease. When it comes to the issue of herd immunity, which we discussed in the previous debate, I do not intend to put the words in the mouth of the Minister for Social Affairs on the strategy, but I note that many in Sweden as well as outside Sweden associate the Swedish strategy with a flock immunity tank. That's all I want to say about it. This is not surprising, given that testing and contamination detection were initially not part of the Swedish Public Health Agency's strategy. Rather, there was talk of limiting the spread of the disease, not stopping it. In other countries there was constant talk of stopping the spread of the disease as much as possible. We have seen how, for example, flights from countries at risk were not initially stopped, and it was chosen to ignore certain warnings that came from the World Health Organisation, as is still the case, and other international experts. This is what made Sweden stand out internationally. Now it is claimed that it is a coincidence that Sweden stands out as it does. I am convinced that this is not the case, but it is the government's paralysis, which has come to be called a strategy, which is the reason for the high number of infected and the high number of deaths in Sweden. This is, of course, sad, and I very much hope that the government is learning – but so far I have not seen anything to suggest that they are. Recurrently, we've seen how the government blames itself. It blames the regions, and at some point it has blamed individual entrepreneurs, not least health care entrepreneurs. It has always been said that it is someone else's responsibility. I do not understand that if you see that something is not working, as a minister responsible for health care, you do not want to do your utmost to solve it? Why do you not see that there are problems in, for example, care for the elderly? Why do you not find out where the shortcomings are, not least when choosing a strategy? Several times we have returned to the fact that both the Minister for Social Affairs and, above all, the Prime Minister have said that they have strategically chosen the right path and that they are behind the strategy. Despite the knowledge that Sweden is in a worse situation than our neighbours, the Swedish strategy was initially adopted. I do not understand this because we cannot compare Sweden with Belgium, for example. That country is much more densely populated than Sweden. It's a bit like comparing Stockholm and Norrland. I can't. These are different conditions and, of course, the measures we take play a role. It is no coincidence that Sweden looks like it does.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-579	Madam President, I would like It is probably just as Markus Wiechel describes, i.e. that there are above all many outside Sweden who draw conclusions. At a time of a pandemic when you are not allowed to travel, it is easy to write different articles and read them between journalists. I have met extremely many foreign journalists, not least during the spring, summer and autumn, and on every occasion – I won't say that there is no exception – the vast majority are surprised when they come to Sweden and realise that people don't sit in outdoor cafés or restaurants and that life goes on as usual. It is a fate when they get off at the airport and when they go through central Stockholm. I have tried to get them to go out in the country to see that Sweden is not always like Stockholm's inner city, but it is not that simple. Nevertheless, it is a fact that it is easy to have an idea of something that you are not in the middle of. I also think that we have a common responsibility to explain how Sweden works. I usually be careful to talk about how other countries should do or what they could have done differently. This summer it was a situation where for many months we had a very low spread of infection with virtually no strain on health care at all. The number of persons admitted to intensive care was one-digit. Then it turned quickly, and many came to Sweden. They all wanted to do as Sweden because it seemed so successful. In many countries, the second wave began already in the middle of the summer. I have never said that anyone should do just like Sweden. We have a strategy, and we have had a strategy, which we are trying to adapt to Swedish conditions. Not all countries have independent authorities. Then they cannot listen to their authority in this way, but they have a different approach. There are countries that are certainly not in a position to allow their high school students or secondary school students to study at home because they do not have computers. There are so many different parts. You cannot demand that people should be at home from work if they do not receive financial compensation at the same time, and so on. There are many parts where we think we have tools in the Swedish system, but it is not possible to tell all countries that they should do as we do. This is going in waves. There is no doubt that you always want to be with those who do not have any spread of infection, but it is not easy, Markus Wiechel, to say that exactly this unites the countries that have succeeded well. They are, unfortunately, few. We heard only today that the disease is flared up in China again. It's a country that, with various repressive methods-- we shouldn't go into them here-- is trying to keep the pandemic in check. When it comes to the image from outside, we need to help each other – if we want – to adjust it a little. I don't think it always matches. There is no doubt that we would have liked to have a situation with a lower spread of infection, but I do not think it is true to say that we have not had testing and detection as part of the strategy. In the beginning they tested and detected effectively. Then, when there was a greater spread of society, care was not able to double or triple the intensive care places, expand health care and ensure that care for the elderly and other welfare areas could be handled when many were on sick leave. There were really huge losses – 30, 40 even 50 percent of the staff could be on short-term sick leave. It was said that you have to test and track the health care personnel in particular, but there were regions that didn't even do so. I do not really understand why we should have a system in Sweden called the principle of responsibility, but as soon as we talk about regions that have primary responsibility for Swedish health care, which goes to elections independently, municipalities that have responsibility for elderly care, that go to elections independently, then there should hardly be any reason to have a dialogue. So you can't even say that employers and principals have a responsibility, because then you blame them. Everyone has a responsibility. We do our utmost to cooperate and cooperate.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-587	Madam President, I would like If you are Minister of Social Affairs – I thought in any case – you have a great interest in really influencing the area for which you are responsible. If you see shortcomings in different regions or municipalities, I take it for granted that you are actively working to change and improve those shortcomings. Then again, we come to the debate on flock immunity. There are emails confirming the fears that many are spreading. Therefore, I don't think it's very strange that one should consider what those government officials who have written the emails mean when they talk about faster reaching herd immunity, and so on, that is, flock immunity. The care did not take place in the spring, and the care does not take place right now either. That is one of the reasons for acting cautiously – one takes the safe before the uncertain. I have never advocated a lockdown of Swedish society. Some believe that there is either lockdown or just the opposite, like Sweden's direction. I've never ever advocated a lockdown. However, I have been much harder in my criticism than many others when it comes to Swedish strategy, which has been rather the opposite. Flights have been allowed to land here even though they come from danger areas. Passengers from danger areas have been allowed to walk in freely without testing or isolation, and so on. I have been critical of not having tested and detected or forced isolation in cases where people have shown symptoms or had confirmed infection. That's a huge problem. Not least, I was very critical as early as February last year, when the Minister of Social Affairs claimed that we were ready to face the pandemic while virtually anyone who is politically interested realised how ill-equipped our society was in terms of health care but also preparedness in terms of emergency stocks and so on.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-592	Madam President, I would like We are back there again – that it is lockdown or vice versa, as in Sweden. I think that Markus Wiechel is fundamentally wrong when he describes Sweden as the opposite. We have not taken a political decision in this House which says that we are shutting down the whole of Sweden and are grounded, that is quite right, but the measures that were taken gave in principle equivalent effect. What we did not do, as many other countries did, was close our schools. In fact, I think I'm going to give the Swedish Democrats the right place there. The Swedish Democrats were the party that thought that schools should have been closed. The government and other parties did not think so. No part of Swedish society really thought that. It was also something that we based on the image of the expert authorities and the knowledge that existed about whether children drive the infection or become seriously ill versus the consequences that become for an entire society when all those who work in socially necessary functions cannot have their children in preschool and school. We tested but basically had the corresponding effect, and it is the effects we want. The next steps need to be changed over time. That is why we have even more severe restrictions now, under the second wave. People can't really take it. We reached a very long way, to be said, given the general concern. We'd all lie if we didn't tell them how scared we were at the beginning of the pandemic. Who's gonna get sick? Who's gonna die? Can I see anyone at all? Will my children survive? We knew almost nothing about this disease. That the case we had in Sweden at the end of January would render so quickly in so many cases was not really obvious. It was not in Sweden or in any other country, but it took the whole of Europe to bed. I think the WHO was also surprised that the European Union was going to become such an epicentre versus other continents. But we achieved what we wanted, namely that people should keep their distance and stay at home and that activities where people meet should basically not exist. This can be achieved in different ways. Just before Christmas, over 300,000 a week were tested. These were figures that, in principle, with some differences, were produced in the autumn and during the second wave because they had experience and knowledge. I remember very well when I would look at those who would do the first mobile tests. You would visit someone at home and help it to do a test. We thought that was innovative after a few weeks. The problem was that you would be two and needed so much protective equipment. You were terrified; it was like nothing visible. It cost on in a situation where protective equipment was desirable products all over the world, where borders were closed, so it is clear that it was something else to test then compared to testing now. Now we can scale it up extremely much. That it was important to test we have not had any differences of opinion about. But the question was in what volumes could be handled in terms of how strained care and the rest of society were. I had written some more part here. I'll tell you what I'd say. I think I can say passport on it and see if I can come up with it for my last speech.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-601	Madam President, I would like There is a lot of things you could discuss and ask questions about, but I was going to make it quite simple for the Minister for Social Affairs: What did she mean when she said that Sweden was ready for the pandemic last February?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-602	Madam President, I would like On my hugely sticky paper, by chance, the word stands ready, but I did not remember what to say. If we're gonna be really careful, I really don't think I said the word ready. But that Sweden is well prepared I think I used as an expression. It is about Sweden being a very well-organized society and that we have the principle that the person responsible in peacetime is also responsible in crisis. The person responsible shall not reinvent the wheel. One should not put a new organisation on it, but make sure that it is the same organisation as normally responsible for each part, whether it is a matter of administration in an authority or of reorganising care in the whole region, in an individual hospital or in a health centre. Pandemic strategies should be implemented in all regions, and there should be emergency stocks in the regions. I believe that the regions, if they may say so themselves, certainly wish they had more stocks. We in this House also need to come back to the issue of national emergency stocks. Shall we have it? What will they look like, and how will they be built up? We have an investigation that has worked for two and a half years to make proposals on that very point, because we see that there is a need to strengthen preparedness on this point. My intention was to say that we are a society that is equipped, where everyone knows what to do. But we have suffered and are in the midst of the greatest crisis in modern times. Coping with it without being noticed, being strained, or having consequences would not be the greatest crisis in modern times. Clearly, all of us need to learn from this and to equip ourselves even better. But we should not be prepared for a next pandemic called covid ‐ 19 ‐‐ 2.0, because it will not come. We need to try to equip ourselves for what we cannot yet predict, and that is a challenge.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-608	Madam President, I would like Carina Ståhl Herrstedt has asked me whether I intend to follow up and evaluate the work of the Remuneration Board in order to meet the criticism that has emerged, thereby also clarifying why so many were rejected, especially at the end of the period of treatment. The Compensation Board was an authority established on 1 January 2013 to decide on compensation for persons who have been subjected to serious abuse or neglect in social care between 1920 and 1980. The background to the board was the so-called Vanvårdsutningen, which was set up in 2006 by the then Social Democratic-led government. The investigation submitted its final report in 2011, after which the then government, together with the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Left Party, agreed to establish the agency, among other things. The mandate of the Remuneration Board was limited in time and ended on 30 June 2016. The Board's activities were regulated by the Act on Compensation due to abuse or neglect in community care of children and young people in certain cases. The law laid down two requirements for the right to compensation. The individual had to show that he or she had been cared for in accordance with certain specified laws during the period from 1 January 1920 to 31 December 1980 and to present evidence that he or she had been subjected to abuse or neglect during the placement in the care of the community. During the years 2013 to 2016, the Authority decided to grant compensation in 2,210 cases. The mandate of the Remuneration Board was ultimately to compensate for what can never be fully replaced. Nothing can compensate for those who have been mistreated and neglected in social care for children and young people. A lost childhood or a lifelong trauma cannot be measured in money. I note that the mandate of the Remuneration Board has been completed in accordance with the broad political agreement that was made.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-611	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree with what the Minister says that nothing can compensate for what these people were subjected to and that a lost childhood or a life-long trauma cannot be measured in money. Here it was a matter of moral redress. One of the reasons I woke up to this interpellation was that last December the media reported that about eighty municipalities had received or would receive multimillion-dollar lawsuits and that lawyers around the country were deeply shocked by what many had been subjected to under the responsibility of the municipalities. It was about everything from abuse, neglect and neglect to direct mismanagement. The fact that so many people have now chosen to sue their municipality instead is most likely a consequence of the rejection of nearly 54 per cent of those who applied for compensation from the Remuneration Board. Therefore, I believe that there is every reason to follow up and evaluate the work of the Remuneration Board and also why so little of the funds allocated were actually used. It is perfectly reasonable to evaluate the work after such massive criticisms as the Remuneration Board. For many of those who have been mistreated and who hoped for some form of moral restoration, expectation and hope were transformed into a rejection that left deep wounds behind – so deep that many of them wished that they had never even sought compensation and thus avoided tearing up old wounds by telling lawyers, psychologists and tape recorders about their horrendous experiences. Madam President, I would like As an adult, deeply scarred, recorded, and in front of strangers and judgmental people, telling about sexual abuse, for example, in a childhood that has long been tried to suppress is no easy task. It's rather cruelly brave. After this courageous step you get a letter in the mail with a refusal, without any possibility of appeal. It is not difficult to understand the feeling of not being believed. Society has failed these people, not once, but twice. The handling of this is, I mean, at all levels under all criticism. But even with facts in hand, there doesn't seem to be a willingness to evaluate. Nevertheless, I thought it was important for the government to evaluate all types of activities and authorities in order to ensure that everything has become as planned. Otherwise, it is quite easy to believe that, from the government's point of view in this case, it was exactly what was intended, because the government did not even want to replace those who had been mistreated from the outset, but was forced more or less to change. Madam President, I would like The Minister says in his reply that the Remuneration Board's mandate has been completed, according to the agreement made. My question will be why it is so far away from evaluating this activity. Was it not the purpose that as many as possible would receive redress to the extent possible? The fact that many municipalities are now being sued could have been avoided if the government had taken on the responsibility that should be incumbent upon it. We would therefore like to see a re-examination of the cases that have been rejected and the compensation to which many have been entitled also paid. I cannot see the fact that municipalities are now being sued as anything other than a failure on the part of the government and the Remuneration Board. My supplementary question, therefore, is how the Minister views the fact that municipalities are now being sued.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-620	Madam President, I would like It was not a question in the interpellation how I see municipalities now being sued. However, I can say that it was a really long process. It went on for ten years, one can say, from the time that Göran Johansson, as his name was, was commissioned by the then Minister of Public Health Morgan Johansson to start the Vanvårdsutningen. It was in itself very important to many. Some people I met in my role in the Social Affairs Committee felt that just being listened to and being involved in the Vanvårdsutningen and being taken seriously by someone was perhaps the most important thing. For others, it was the public apology that then took place. For others, it was also a question of moving forward and making an application to the Remuneration Board. As I said, it started with the infirmary investigation. There was a great deal of work going on. It is also quite telling that it was a broad deal. It was a government that gave the commission on the mismanagement investigation. There was another one who received it and made sure that there was a redress investigation. There was a broad agreement to proceed with the proposal of the Justice Investigation. It took ten years to do all this, and now it is four years since the Remuneration Board completed its mission. I cannot comment on whether a proper assessment was made in each individual case. It would be to review the Board of Remuneration and its exercise of authority. I won't, and even if I had had to do it, it would have been an impossible task. Of course it is a very special situation for the Remuneration Board to listen to the individual. I know, having played the role of opposition representative, that they made a great effort to ensure that there were various forms of support – psychologically and other types of support. You know that the person who is going there and telling you about something may need support to dare, manage and be able to tell, but also maybe afterwards. I remember that we talked about this very much and wanted to make sure that the Remuneration Board would not be talking about a traditional court hearing, where answers are expected to be given and someone might ask questions a little bit cold. At least this was important to us. However, we did not participate in the work itself. No one knows how many children have historically suffered in social care for children and young people. This was an attempt to map this out and get some kind of idea of it. The investigation, which would prepare and say how to obtain redress, tried to determine the number in some way and landed in that perhaps between 2 000 and 5 000 would apply for compensation. For a number of places in between, compensation could also be granted. At the same time, it was important to say that these were estimates that were very uncertain. I know that the question was raised at that time as to why so many applications were granted at the beginning and less at the end of the period. It is also a question that Carina Ståhl Herrstedt asked in the interpellation. Of course, I had to go back a little bit to see if my memory was correct. It was certainly the case that those who felt very prepared submitted their application early on, but it was also easier for the Board to start with what they thought was clear. What could be replaced would be of a serious nature. This also caused the more difficult cases to land a little more towards the end. I do not know what it looks like in the individual cases, but this is at least the explanation and the answer to the other half of Carina Ståhl Herrstedt's question.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-628	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In fact, unreasonable demands of proof led to the rejection of as many as 54% of those who had been mistreated and applied for compensation. This is in some sense a disgrace to Sweden. In this case, the state's thought must have been to say that we acknowledge that what you have been subjected to is wrong, and we reject it and show it morally in this way – through financial compensation for everything you have suffered. Then it becomes problematic when half of the applicants do not get this recognition. The Minister himself mentions Göran Johansson, who led the Vanvårdsutningen. He was also strongly critical of the fact that so few people were granted compensation. When such an informed person turns out to be so skeptical of the evidence required, it is clear that there have been too high demands for evidence on the victim. As the Minister says, only cases of serious neglect, which were well documented and detailed, have been compensated. This should in fact run counter to the ambition that the assessments should be generous. Instead, complex assessment requirements made it impossible for many to obtain compensation. At first, the applicant had to show that he or she had been placed during the time of this terrible neglect. Then it would also be proved that foster parents or orphanage staff did not act to prevent this. In addition, one could prove that this was true – otherwise one could be judged for slander. This became problematic in itself, because there was no documentation. It caused a lot of trouble. Only 46% have been compensated – it is a shamefully low figure when you have high ambitions. Once again, Madam President, the Minister says that the Remuneration Board has carried out the task they have been assigned to carry out. The follow-up question is: how do you know when there has been no evaluation at all? In almost all other contexts, evaluations are carried out. Reports are being written, and money is being used properly and decisions made are also being implemented. But there is no review or evaluation here. There should have been no budgetary reasons whatsoever, because even if all applicants had been granted compensation, they would still have been able to keep their budget. It will then be very easy to believe that there has rather been a clear incentive because the government from the beginning was so negative to replacing those who have been subjected to this. Instead, as I said, a lot of municipalities are being sued around the country. It would be interesting to hear whether the Minister himself does not think that it is possible to see it as a failure to choose instead to sue the municipalities, because the system that was supposed to replace them did not work, or if she can at least answer the question as to what it is that does not mean that this particular authority was not examined or followed up.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-635	Madam President, I would like It is important to say that it was a question of moral redress. It was also a task to make sure to find some form of redress. I do not think we should use the word shamefully in this context. An incredible effort has been made in a very difficult situation. We are talking about cases which are, as in this case, 90 years old. It is clear that it is sometimes difficult for the individual to obtain that kind of evidence. It should be understood that there was no one who requested written minutes in all contexts. But you should also understand that it was about people who were no longer living who were accused and who could not give their version, so of course it was a very difficult mission. That is why a special investigation had to look at how the restoration could take place. It could take place in several different forms, as I said. Of course, many of those concerned have slightly different views on this. Christina Ståhl Herrstedt's proposal basically means that the government or someone else would see if the Remuneration Board made the right assessment. My view is that it is not possible to do so. There are almost 5,000 calls that have been taken and recorded. Among other things, it has been about reading documentation. This took three four years. They were also given extended time to do a solid job. There were no restrictions in economic terms. Again, there were changes in government between here. This is not a question of someone wanting or not wanting, but it is genuinely very difficult. A great effort has been made. But to go through all the cases afterwards to see if the lawyers who were appointed made the right assessment or interpretation is something that we do not do in other court cases. We do not go in and say that the judges have made mistakes, but we have legislation to comply with. This is not a court but a compensation board, but it has a corresponding structure. I do not see that we can evaluate the individual cases. But the purpose was to examine abuse or neglect of a serious nature. The investigation deliberately wrote that way, for it was argued that there was reason to be cautious about allowing the review to cover too many different situations, without it being manageable. The individual would know whether he or she could be covered by the compensation and whether it was relevant to apply for it. Of course, it was also important for the Board to be able to fulfil the mission. In order not to lose its symbolic value as confirmation and redress, the compensation would be reserved to those who have been subjected to the most serious forms. In addition, the compensation was the same, SEK 250 000, in any case where a compensation was awarded. Something that was also discussed was whether everyone should really receive the same compensation. But it was compensation for abuse or neglect of a serious nature, and it was not about evaluating how serious it was. I believe that it was a solid and very serious work that was done and that ended four years ago. I do not see any possibility of examining the interpretations that have been made in connection with the law. I feel like I'm repeating myself now, but it's not a basis. Nobody says, "I'm ticking these three criteria." Of course, it would take many hours to acquire sufficient knowledge, and to do this again to see if you did right or wrong, I do not see that as possible.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-643	Madam President, I would like I understand, of course, the complexity of this and the fact that these are assessments. The criticism has also been that they have landed far too narrowly. Perhaps it is not a question of looking at the exact assessments that the Board has made, but at how it was designed from the outset and learning from it. Unfortunately, it is not entirely incredible to me that we could end up in a situation like this in a number of years to come. Then it may be good to have evaluated an activity as such. The fact that it is two different things to evaluate the operation and its work and then to deal with all the cases, which I also think should be done, is quite right by the Minister. I understand the difficulty of 90-year-old cases. Then people may also understand the hard part when I say that there is far too much burden of proof that has been on those who would produce evidence and documentation that is 90 years old. It's not really easy. I understand there will be no evaluation. What I wanted to lift up was above all that since it became as it became, the municipalities are now being sued instead. We have always had views from the Swedish Democrats on the Remuneration Board and did not want to close it. We were the only party to oppose that decision. I wanted to go up and ask this question because it was a shock that the municipalities are being sued now and someone else is taking the fall for a job that should have been done. I would like to conclude my speech by saying that I am suffering with all those who have gone through this process – I know that there are more who do – and then meet with a rejection. I would also like to wish those good luck who are able to take the fight one more time. I should also like to express my regret that there is no support for an evaluation.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-648	Madam President, I would like There were 2,210 people who received compensation. If it had been an impossibility to perform any kind of basis, it would not have the country at that level. If I remember correctly – I reserve a little – one could also refer to the stories and testimony that had been given to the mismanagement investigation in order not to have to repeat everything again. So it was not always a question of written evidence, but it is clear that it would be made likely in various ways. There were those who thought maybe we shouldn't try this, because it would be so hard. It's hard to draw boundaries. I'm glad we did it and that we didn't say that because it's so hard to draw boundaries, it's better that we don't, because then nobody asks why you ended up on the wrong side. Somewhere the boundaries are drawn. I believe that Carina Ståhl Herrstedt is right in saying that we do not know what the future looks like and what kind of corresponding redress could take place. It is all the more important that in forthcoming interpellation debates we talk about the future and modern social care of children and young people, because we have promised that we will do everything we can to ensure that children and young people are not again subjected to this neglect. We don't know how many there are. Göran Johansson's neglect investigation is an incredibly important document for history. Of course, for all those who received compensation, it was important, although I would like to repeat what I said at the outset, that there is, of course, no money in the world that can pay for the suffering or compensate for the trauma that has been experienced.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-653	Madam President, I would like First of all, Johan Hultberg has asked me how I view the risk that the high and increased pressure on health care will delay vaccination against covid-19 and whether I intend to take any measures to prevent the vaccination from being delayed and, secondly, whether I am prepared to instruct the National Board of Health and Welfare to make proposals for regulatory changes in order to enable pharmacists, if necessary, to vaccinate against covid-19. It is important that vaccinations against covid-19 are carried out effectively, promptly and safely. We know, and I hope that more and more people agree with us, that vaccinations save lives and health and that the pressure on health care at the moment we are in can be reduced. All registered nurses are allowed to perform vaccinations. In 2018, there were over 110 000 registered nurses in Sweden. It is world-class healthcare professionals, and among them there is a lot of experience in carrying out extensive annual vaccination campaigns, for example, against influenza. In order to make vaccination work more effective, nurses may delegate, among other things, the preparation of vaccination to other healthcare professionals. Johan Hultberg rightly mentions that the burden on hospital care, among other things, is very high. However, it is expected that primary and outpatient nurses will perform vaccinations against covid-19. It is in primary care and outpatient care that the main habit is to vaccinate many people for a short time, for example against flu. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that the regions have the full opportunity to organise the vaccination work so that nurses from different parts of the care can participate. Of course, there is also the possibility to hire retired nurses or nurses who work in other industries on a daily basis. Regions may also use external vaccination agents provided that they follow the priority order of vaccinations. In order to enable rapid vaccination against covid-19, the Government already in May last year commissioned the Public Health Agency to develop a national vaccination plan. In December last year, the government signed an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR, which in short means that the state commits to pay for vaccines and vaccinations while the regions are responsible for carrying out the vaccinations. The regions are therefore well placed to employ the necessary staff. Together, the regions and the Swedish Public Health Agency have worked intensively with vaccination preparations based on the national plan during the autumn and winter. Through, inter alia, the regional vaccination coordinators, it has been prepared to ensure that staff, equipment and premises are available. As regards further efforts to facilitate vaccination work, the National Board of Health and Welfare has decided that district nurses and nurses may prescribe, i.e. decide, vaccines against covid-19. A prescription includes a medical assessment. The National Board of Health and Welfare therefore considers that it would be necessary to extend the scope of investigations if the right of prescription were to be extended to more occupational categories. It is primarily about patient safety. It is most likely that several different vaccines against covid-19 will be used at the same time, which means increased complexity. Staff must also be able to manage any allergic reactions that may occur very rarely during vaccination. However, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare considers that the new regulations are sufficient to meet the need for nurses who can prescribe vaccines against the disease covid-19, and SRR puts forward that the regions have good competence and ability to carry out vaccinations against covid-19. Of course, the government is following these issues closely in dialogue with both authorities and regions. I am therefore not ruling out anything in advance.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-665	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for the answer to my interpellation. The background to the interpellation is that Sweden has been hit extremely hard by the coronapandemine. Since last spring, we have had a very extensive spread of infection, which unfortunately the government has not been able to limit. Nor has it been possible to protect our elderly to the extent that we have wanted and had as an ambition. The large spread of infection combined with the failure to protect our elderly is the reason why as many as almost 10 000 Swedes have died with covid-19. That's a terrible figure. Now, however, there is a light in the tunnel, and this is the light my interpellation is about, namely the possibility of vaccinating the population against covid-19 and thus saving lives but also jobs and businesses. The Riksbank has assessed that a delayed vaccination costs SEK 25 billion per month. Through rapid vaccination, we can quickly return to a more normal everyday life and save lives, jobs and businesses. Therefore, it is important that the implementation of the biggest vaccination effort ever in our country is successful and goes as fast as we want and as it is possible given the deliveries Sweden is promised. Madam President, I would like It is not the vaccine itself, but the vaccination that saves lives, as the EU Health Commissioner stated the other day. It is not enough that the doses come to Sweden, but all people in our country must also get the vaccination carried out. Now that health care is so heavily strained by the pandemic, we should really look at all the possibilities of giving healthcare relief and taking advantage of the will, skills and know-how of different professions. Together with Swedish pharmacies, Swedish pharmacists have extended a hand to the government and said that they want to help: Give us pharmacists the opportunity to vaccinate in pharmacies. The same applies to dentists: Give us the opportunity to vaccinate. The government should take this outstretched hand. We cannot afford to say no to good forces who want to contribute to this work. Madam President, I would like I am concerned that the government is once again leaning back a little and hoping for the best. I also hope that the regions will manage vaccination as well as the Minister for Social Affairs believes and hopes. However, it is important that we prepare for problems and that the government is not only reactive but proactive and that not only, as the Minister said in his reply, it follows these issues closely but acts, prepares and plans. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare can already be commissioned to change regulations and regulations so that it will be possible for pharmacists and dentists to contribute to the vaccination work and to give the Swedish Armed Forces the task of making their resources available. It is important to take the outstretched hands that come from good forces, both private and public.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-676	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg's setting surprises me a little. We can of course discuss the Swedish strategy if that is what Johan Hultberg really wants. I think Johan Hultberg's description is incorrect. The Moderates have made it their mission to constantly say that the government leans back, does nothing, takes no responsibility and points to others. However, with his experience from not least the Social Committee and all the meetings we have had during the pandemic, Johan Hultberg is very aware of how many different actors are needed in a society for it to work. It is about tackling not only the biggest health crisis but the social crisis in modern times. The regions as heads of Swedish health care are not only a little responsible, responsible to 50 per cent or responsible until it becomes difficult. In fact, the regions have their own elections in which they are tested as representatives. I do not doubt the regions, quite the contrary. I want to give them the best conditions, because they are the ones who employ 110 000 nurses. It was not to sit back in May to give a mission to the Swedish Public Health Agency to develop a national vaccination plan. There were no vaccines yet, but we needed a vaccination plan. At the beginning of June, we appointed a national vaccine coordinator, not to manage it nationally but to represent Sweden in the EU. Sweden has not only been given the vaccine but has taken an active role in negotiating the vaccine. The order of priority is also ready, and regions together with authorities are preparing. The government may not be in daily meetings with vaccine coordinators, but the government's expert authority Public Health does so to ensure that vaccinations really work. So to the question of pharmacists and dentists. The dentists don't have a little conditioning. In other contexts, Johan Hultberg and representatives from the Social Affairs Committee and I talk about how we have a growing need for care due to the pandemic. I think the dentists should handle it rather than engage in what is not their role. They are not trained to prescribe vaccines, and I do not think we should reduce that task in a situation where we should vaccinate many people. The regions don't let nurses do everything from A to Z. They do not need to prepare the vaccination, manage the vaccination and register it, but here, of course, other staff can go in and relieve it. So far, the regions say that they do not need to bring in people who cannot vaccinate and have other training where they are needed better. However, as I mentioned in my reply, both district nurses and nurses have been given the opportunity to prescribe vaccines. I can assure Johan Hultberg that we are receiving signals from the regions that others are needed, we will listen to them. But there is no wish for us to say nationally that the Swedish Armed Forces will participate. Nurses are not the main asset of the defence, but if the defence needs to assist with logistics or other things, the regions can go through the county administrative board and get this support. It's not everyone or nobody. There is a huge difference between Stockholm with 2 million inhabitants and Blekinge with 120,000, and you need to put it up a little differently. The possibility of using occupational health care and external vaccine operators is also looked at. Only yesterday I had a dialogue with the Swedish Public Health Agency, SKR, our vaccine coordinator and the Swedish Medical Products Agency. There is a picture that we are dealing with this. It is going according to plan, and what we are now hoping for is, of course, that all vaccines that we have agreements about will be approved and delivered so that we get the best possible approach. The greatest concern is that companies cannot really predict how much they produce.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-688	Madam President, I would like I do not tremble at the cuffs when I say that the government's corona management has been characterised by slowness, lack of leadership and miscalculation. It's a bit wise of experience that I wake up the interpellation. If we take the question of testing, for example, it was complete failure, and large-scale testing did not start in Sweden as it did in other countries. This was much because the government gave unclear information and did not take the necessary leadership. I am by no means interested, Madam President, in pointing the finger here, but I am just concerned that we should not repeat the same mistakes. Then I think it is important not to say, as the government is doing now, that they have so far not received any signals that there will be a need for other professions, for example, than those who are currently allowed to prescribe and administer vaccines and that they are therefore doing nothing. My point is that one should be proactive and that the government should now give a mandate to, for example, the National Board of Health and Welfare to open up so that it will be possible for pharmacists to administer or even prescribe vaccines and ensure that dentists too are given the opportunity, so that we do not stand here in two months' time, when mass vaccination will be in full swing, and that health care is still on their knees, that one does not have the resources to fully cope with this, and that one might ask other occupational categories to go in and help and relieve. Madam President, I would like I think, as I said, that we need to be proactive, and then the mandates need to come now so that regulations and other regulations can be changed so that the training courses that pharmacists, for example, need to receive in order to carry out vaccinations or even prescribe vaccines are, of course, possible. After all, it is the case that pharmacists are health professionals, but that in their basic education they do not have what is necessary to be able to vaccinate in a patient-safe way. Then they need that training, and that is the kind of mission that needs to come. Madam President, I would like As I said, we are in the midst of a crisis, and I do not think that one can only hope for the best. You actually need to plan for problems, you need to be prepared for if there are troubles along the way and, not least, you need to relieve health care, because it is heavily burdened. There are seven regions right now that have activated their emergency agreements – the last time it was the Ministry of Social Affairs' own home region Kalmar. We see that many operations are cancelled, and those of us who are chronologists have our return visits and follow-up visits cancelled. In order for this not only to continue indefinitely, we need to do what we can to relieve the burden of the healthcare system so that it is able to handle both the acute pandemic and shoulder its regular mission to provide healthcare, operate and perform the care that is not as acute as that carried out in emergency rooms, covid clinics or intensive care departments. My view and appeal to the government is once again: follow not only these issues, but be proactive, act and take initiatives! We in Sweden have failed with our corona management. I think that the statistics speak clearly here, and then we must do everything we can now to grasp the hope that vaccination is and to ensure that it goes as well as possible. There the government has a very important mission, but the Minister is of course quite right that the regions are key players. What I am calling for is for them to have the conditions for this, for the government to create the conditions for other professions to enter and for regions that wish to do so to be able to take the outstretched hands of pharmacists, dentists and other private operators. But that requires changes in regulations and that the National Board of Health and Welfare receives this assignment from the government.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-696	Madam President, I would like I don't think Johan Hultberg really hits it right. Testing, an activity that has not existed to this extent, I do not think it is possible to compare at the beginning of a pandemic with vaccinating after a plan, after being able to prepare in the autumn – an activity that you know well. It has been mentioned many times, although perhaps not in this interpellation debate, that 2 million Swedes have been vaccinated during the autumn, during a burning pandemic. These have been risk groups specifically, so one has received some kind of general rehearsal. I'm a little insecure. Does Johan Hultberg mean that you should relieve so that pharmacists should vaccinate instead of nurses, or is it the case that nurses will not be enough and that we therefore need pharmacists? It's two quite different perspectives. The regions' picture is that they are sufficient. It is not the same staff who handle either covid patients or any cancelled operations. This is not what stands in the way; it is primarily primary care that works with vaccinations. I don't think we should underestimate the difficulty in getting in occupational categories that aren't used to working in health care. It sounds like it's just putting a shot in someone's arm, but it's not quite that simple. However, it is of course important for regions, when they make their plans, to make sure that they use nurses very effectively. That's what you do-- it's going to be a bit of an assembly line. Then you make sure that there are administrators who put in registers. It may be that there are others in the healthcare system or other actors who can help prepare the vaccinations themselves. I still think it's going to be a little weird order. It is clear that the government is not waiting for someone to call and say that now it is crisis and panic. To follow the question is to make it very close, but this is about doing a very extensive work and investigations to allow completely new professions, such as pharmacists, to start vaccination, when the regions, which have a main responsibility, a structure and vaccine coordinators, say they have a structure that works and that they collect others who can assist them. I think that the question of defence is relevant to those regions that feel the need to get help with, for example, logistics or transport. It is absolutely excellent, but picking up professional categories that no one has asked for and starting to investigate their ability to prescribe, I do not see as a constructive way. I don't think it's just about preparing. After all, neither pharmacists nor dentists are basically medically trained. Instead, it has been ensured that those who have a health education but are not entitled to prescription have received this. Work has thus been done to broaden the circle that can help to ensure that vaccinations actually take place.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-702	Madam President, I would like I asked in my interpellation two questions. One was very concrete and specific and concerned pharmacists. The second question was more horizontal, that we see that the health care system is heavily burdened, and then I asked the Minister for Social Affairs if she intended to take any measures to ensure that vaccinations can be carried out in a good way to prevent delay. There, too, there has been no response from the Minister for Social Affairs as to whether it intends to take any such action, but the answer is that it follows the questions. In my world, Madam President, it is a very passive attitude. There are no concrete examples of what is being done to address various potential problems or what is being prepared to further support the regions in order to benefit from other social measures. Unfortunately, Madam President, I understand that this is a rather passive attitude on the part of the government. That is the attitude that I want to try to influence here. Vaccinations are extremely important. After all, it is ultimately about saving lives but also, as I said, about saving many of the jobs and businesses that are now under threat. We must also be aware that vaccination against covid-19, for example, is not just about spring, but it will have to be done on a continuous basis. Probably we will all need refill doses perhaps every 18 months, and then I think it is important that we look at the possibilities to relieve health care and use pharmacists. It is not something entirely new that is invented by me, but it occurs in a wide range of other European countries. It is enough to go to our Norwegian friends or to Denmark. This is where pharmacists are used to manage the vaccinations, so I think that we in Sweden should learn from our Nordic neighbours, who, incidentally, have managed the pandemic better. Thank you for a good debate!
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-706	Madam President, I would like One could imagine that we had this discussion when it was summer 2020 and we had no preparations whatsoever– what if we got a vaccine? But that is not where we are, Johan Hultberg, but the vaccinations are in progress. There are agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. I think we need to decide whether the state should handle the vaccinations or the regions should. The regions have a structure, they have a habit and they have knowledge. They're the ones who employ 110,000 nurses. It is a matter of course of having all the support they need. But they do not say that they want completely new professions that come in and do this a little alongside. Of course, you want the support of retired nurses. They want people who may be in other industries to come in. Different regions have different opportunities to engage, for example, private vaccination operators who have quite little to do, as not many people need travel vaccines today. So we are supposed to have what is needed. Why, then, should we start extensive work and train a category that is basically not healthcare-trained, which is present in the health sector but which is not basically healthcare-trained? This category exists in the health care sector, but it is not the same. I therefore think that this is a wrong way to describe it as not being well prepared and as if vaccinations are not in progress. There is not only a good dialogue, but should something emerge, we will resolve this. We have a strategy, we have a plan and we have negotiated vaccines. Norway, Iceland and Switzerland, for example, have vaccines thanks to Sweden. So we have a very offensive stance in everything from how to get the vaccine to how to prioritise and that the vaccinations should really be done. Now it is the task of Johan Hultberg, mine and everyone else to ensure that people really vaccinate themselves and that we do everything we can in common to tell people how important this is. I think that is the most important thing we can do. When we follow the question, it should not be interpreted as inaction, but rather as confidence that the regions actually take a very large responsibility and have an eye on the situation.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-713	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev has asked me whether the government will remove the second amortisation requirement. In November 2017, the Government gave a consent to Finansinspektionen to introduce a second – so-called reinforced – amortisation requirement. This means that borrowers with mortgages exceeding 4.5 times the annual income before tax shall amortise 1 per cent of the mortgage per year, in addition to the amortisation requirement that may result from the size of the loan in relation to the value of the dwelling. The enhanced amortisation requirement aims to offset high indebtedness in relation to the borrower's income and complements the previous amortisation requirement based on the leverage ratio. As a background, it is worth recalling that we have seen a growing share of households with rising debt ratios in Sweden over a period of years. Both Swedish and international assessors such as the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, and the EU had pointed out the risks of the increase in debt. Together with already low interest rates, this led to an increased risk of imbalances in the credit market, which could threaten the stability of the national economy and financial markets. There was also a direct risk that vulnerable households in a crisis situation would reduce their consumption, thereby reinforcing a recession. The increased amortisation requirement therefore contributes to increased resilience of households. At the same time, amortisation regulations allow mortgage companies to temporarily exempt households from the requirement to amortise in the event of a severe economic downturn. As we have now seen, this household provides greater security in being able to manage its expenditure even if income is reduced, and a temporary derogation can free up consumption space. The Government welcomes the fact that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has clarified through general advice how the possibility of an exemption can be applied in the serious situation resulting from the spread of the disease covid-19. The Government considers that amortisation requirements have worked well, and both international and national expert authorities have assessed that amortisation requirements have been well justified and have reduced the risks associated with household indebtedness. However, it is important to evaluate implemented measures, and we have commissioned Finansinspektionen to carry out an overall evaluation of the implemented macroprudential measures during 2021. The evaluation includes looking at the impact of the measures on household indebtedness and how developments have affected the risks associated with indebtedness. The evaluation shall be finalised by 30 June 2021.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-717	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Let me start by saying a few words about the context in which the second amortisation requirement was introduced. In Sweden, banks use a number of criteria or models to calculate households' ability to pay both under normal and crisis conditions. Before the second amortisation requirement was introduced, we had a first amortisation requirement that was assessed and assessed to work well. We had and have a mortgage deal that says that a home buyer must have a cash deposit for financing of at least 15 per cent of the value of the dwelling. The banks had and have so-called left-to-live-on calculations that show how much money the borrower has left after the costs of interest, housing, food, transportation and so on. This gives an overall picture of whether the borrower will be able to afford to repay his loan and thus constitutes a foundation for the banks' assessment of the borrower's financial situation. In Sweden, therefore, the granting of credit was clearly regulated by law, regulations and practice before the requirement was introduced. It is therefore not the case that the most recent amortisation requirement represents the difference between a healthy credit market and a national financial meltdown, which seeks to be taken into account in the interpellation response. In addition, it is – and this is perhaps an even more important factor in this context – that according to Finansinspektionen's own reports, households' resilience has been in an upward trend since 2013, i.e. before the second amortisation requirement was introduced. In this context, however, the debate took off, and the demand was nevertheless introduced. At the same time, it has been noted by Swedish professors, including Lars E O Svensson, the Council for Fiscal Policy, and others that the premises on which the requirement is based are directly wrong. A key argument put forward is that many financial crises are often preceded by a credit expansion to states, companies or, as in this case, households. It's true. In this context, however, using the 2008 financial crisis as a bat for the second amortisation requirement is historyless, since it was loans to households with a documented poor credit history and ability to pay that drove the crisis, so-called subprime loans, in combination with an active mortgage channel, i.e. a consumption-driven lending. But this is not the case in Sweden, even if we remove the second amortisation requirement from the equation. The banks have not granted loans to the right and left to households that cannot pay, nor do we have an active mortgage channel in Sweden. I would therefore like to know first of all whether the Minister shares these research conclusions. The Social Democrats wrote in Fastighetstidningen on 12 January 2021: We believe that it is reasonable to review the amortisation requirements. However, all the charges that have taken place over the last decade are unlikely to be justified. Young and first-time buyers are excluded because the amortisation is the most important at the beginning of a loan's maturity.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-726	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the memory is short and that when you do not think it is a crisis, you feel that all the regulations and restrictions that need to be introduced to build buffers to build resilience are unnecessary. This has been the sound of all times, and so it continues to sound especially from the Swedish Democrats who don't usually think very long-term but like to look very short-term at the situations that are right here and now. It is clear that we had a unique situation in Sweden. It's possible Dennis Dioukarev doesn't remember that. But mortgage-free loans then spread like wildfire over the Swedish credit market. We had an amortisation culture that was completely different from what it looked like in our surrounding world. This was a dangerous development. And many assessors pointed out that this led to risks for individual households but also for the economy as a whole. By means of the measures taken by the government, together with the supervisory and expert authorities, we have a healthy amortisation culture in place, and I think we should be happy about that. That is why I am concerned about Dennis Dioukarev's entry into this debate, and he is pretending that the amortisation requirement does not serve any purpose. I think that is a dangerous tendency. As far as research is concerned, there are many different researchers who have come to different conclusions, and there is a fairly broad range of conclusions about how restrictions on the housing market affect and what function they perform. What is very clear, however, is that our expert authorities, which we have put together in the Swedish democratic spirit to monitor the Swedish financial market, have jointly said that the increase in debt in Sweden is a financial and economic risk to the Swedish economy. It is about the Riksbank, the Swedish National Debt Office and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. When foreign assessors have looked at the Swedish market, such as the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Systemic Risk Board and others, they have also pointed out that the high level of indebtedness in Swedish households is a risk that you need to take care of because it can otherwise grow and become difficult to manage. Also important is the use of good times to build shelters for the coming worse times. We all know that economic cycles are going up and down, and that is why it is important in good times to ensure that a buffer is built up in the economy – and in the household economy. That is exactly what we have done in recent good times. We have not only allowed the expansion of credit to run on, which is always easiest. ♪ Forget about tomorrow, just think about today! Why make it harder for people to borrow when everything goes well and everything points up? ..................................................... We have not been able to engage in this irresponsibility; on the contrary, we have made sure that both the banks and the financial market are required to build a capital that will make us better able to cope with bad times. However, we have also made demands on households: you should actually pay off your loans. Not only should you continue to take out loans, ignore the amortization and hope that the situation will resolve in the future, but we have made the demand that a principle when you take out loans should be that you pay them back. I am old enough to remember the 90s crisis, when we had falling prices of housing while we had an increasing unemployment in Sweden. Many households were then burdened with having no capital or income enough to cope with mortgage repayments, but were forced to sell their homes at lower prices. They didn't get back what they had in loans but were sitting with an over-indebtedness – which some households actually remain with to this day, several decades afterwards. Let us take responsibility for the economic situation and for household finances – let us not put any more households in that situation! I think Dennis Dioukarev should take financial responsibility for the future and not just take the easy way out by pretending that credit restrictions do not play an important role.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-736	Madam President, I would like It sounds like the second amortisation requirement is some kind of universal solution to all problems related to debt. With regard to the 90s crisis, it was currency speculation that drove it, combined with crown rate defence and radical changes in taxation. That is not what the situation is today, so if one tries to claim that the second amortisation requirement would have prevented the whole of the 1990s crisis – and the financial crisis – one has an overbelief in one's own policy, to put it mildly. Then I note that the Government does not answer my question. My question was, then, whether the Government agrees with the Social Democrats that it is reasonable to review the amortisation requirements and whether the charges made over the last decade are justified. That's my question. I note that the government seems to say one thing in the Real Estate newspaper and in the media, and then they say another thing in the Parliament's pulpit – or rather they say nothing at all. It will, of course, be very difficult for voters to keep up with the decision that ultimately applies. I must also remind the Government that the Swedish Democrats were the driving force behind the first amortisation requirement. We are in favour of the other credit restrictions that exist today. It is therefore not some kind of High Chaparral here that the Government is trying to assert, but it is the second amortisation requirement that I criticise, which the Social Democrats criticise and which the Swedish professors also criticise. As far as the international assessors are concerned, it is not exactly a state secret that debt among Swedish households is at a relatively high level, but if it is the debt you want to access, the interest deduction is actually a much more effective tool to work with. It meets all borrowers, not just new ones – and not primarily young adult households, as is the case with the second amortisation requirement. I know that the Green Party is also in favour of a reduction in interest rebates, just like the Swedish Democrats. I am not saying that this must happen right now, in the midst of a burning pandemic; I want to be clear about that. I only note that the government has had two mandates soon to do something about the interest rebates but has not been able to deal with the heavy political issues. Then I would like to turn to the question of the effect it has on young households on the housing market. The reality is that it is clear from the evidence provided by Finansinspektionen itself to the Government that the curve of the number of young households granted housing loans shows the upward trend before the amortisation requirements but that it has now stagnated. The trend towards making it easier for young households to obtain housing loans has thus been broken following the introduction of the amortisation requirement. Further statistics show that the share of young adults in need of help with cash or co-borrowers on a housing loan was 17 per cent in 2016. Today it is 25%. It has thus become more difficult to collect for the cash effort, which also pulverises the argument that amortisation requirements have a statistically significant effect on the price increase of housing. Further facts on the table – and this is where it gets really interesting – is that the lowest gross income required to obtain a loan of 85 per cent of the value of a home for a one in Stockholm has increased by 14 400 SEK. Of this increase, the amortisation requirements amount to SEK 8,500, other credit restrictions for 1,600 and higher prices for housing for SEK 4,500. This is clear: It has become more difficult for young adults to obtain housing loans beyond all reasonable doubt. Against this background, I wonder how many young adults have been excluded from having their own home because of the second amortisation requirement.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-744	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of errors in what Dennis Dioukarev just read out, for example in terms of the proportion of young people among mortgage holders. What has happened historically is as follows: When the previous government introduced the mortgage ceiling in 2012, the proportion of young people among new mortgage holders fell quite substantially. In fact, under the current government, it has gone up and remained at a stable level since then, even with the amortisation requirements that are now in place. It is statistics and truth, unlike what Dennis Dioukarev reported. I can also give a clear indication of how many are affected by the second amortisation requirement: According to Finansinspektionen's mortgage surveys, this is approximately 11 per cent of new mortgage holders. Thus, a very small proportion of the population as a whole is affected at all by the second amortisation requirement. This is also why it is a little difficult to understand Dennis Dioukarev's doomsday orientation in relation to the second amortisation requirement, as if it were a huge brake on the housing market, the household economy and the national economy. What we had was a situation where an increasing proportion of households in Sweden had a high indebtedness relative to their income. It was a trend that brought risks and dangers to the economy. Not least, it brought risks and dangers to the households concerned. Being heavily indebted in relation to the income you have – which is to be used to pay off on the loans, i.e. paying mortgages and interest rates – is a risk factor for a household. I think we have a responsibility to ensure that as few households as possible end up in the rather risky economic situation. Throughout history, there are plenty of examples of households in this type of situation being hit very hard when there is an economic downturn or when the household suffers unemployment, illness, divorce or the like. In answer to Dennis Dioukarev's question, the truth is that we are doing exactly what Dennis Dioukarev was talking about. We are reviewing the macro-economic measures that have been taken. As I said in my interpellation response, we have already given a mandate to Finansinspektionen to review the overall impact of the macro-economic tools we have used, and it is a survey that is now ongoing and that will come in this year. Dennis Dioukarev thus breaks open doors, which the Swedish democrats tend to do quite often. In addition, the government has set up an investigation to look at the situation of first-time buyers in the housing market and see what measures can be taken to improve for that group. It is above all – and we should remember this when listening to Dennis Dioukarev – because of the fast and rapidly increasing prices we have seen for a very long time in the Swedish housing market that it has become more difficult and difficult for young people to take the step in and buy a home. With prices constantly rising by 10 – 15 per cent per year and income rising at a significantly lower rate, it is clear that there will be a higher and higher threshold for entering the housing market. There too, we have a responsibility to ensure that we not only fuel the trend towards even higher house prices but actually try to hold it back.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-749	Madam President, I would like The fact that it is the second amortisation requirement that would only have a possible relative effect on the price development of housing is simply not statistically significant. This is most likely due to an increased supply of housing up to 2017. As regards the evaluation that the Government has commissioned Finansinspektionen to do, I do not think it is very credible to have an authority evaluate itself in this way. We shall see what this evaluation lands in. Whatever the case, we know that at individual level, the second amortisation requirement leads, at best, to the exclusion of households with good payment capacity from the housing market and to the shift to an insecure secondary market with sky-high rents. It could be single people. This may involve a couple who are recent graduates from the university, with a good cash flow but with a level of effort that activates the second requirement and thus makes it impossible to enter the housing market in our most rapidly growing and labour-intensive regions. Since the peak in 2017, residential building has decreased by 30 per cent in the kingdom and by as much as 50 per cent in the Stockholm region. This means that in the worst case, the second amortisation requirement is directly inhibiting growth and leads to socio-economic welfare losses. Yet the Minister of Housing stands here beating his chest for a policy that continues to extinguish dreams of a home of his own. But what is most remarkable, Madam President, is that the second requirement was introduced in order to increase resilience in times of crisis. Now we are in a time of crisis, and instead we need to abolish the requirement because, on the contrary, it has reduced the resilience of households during the pandemic. Why, Per Bolund, must the requirement be temporarily abolished when the purpose of the requirement is to help households in situations such as this one?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-755	Madam President, I would like I think the last question is speaking for Dennis Dioukarev's whole world of ideas, which is not in line with reality. If Dennis Dioukarev had studied how to work to counter risks in the economy and counter crises, he would have seen that in good times they were trying to build up a buffer – a capital buffer in the banks and a buffer in the household economy – and then resist disturbances and crises in the national economy. That is exactly what we have done. As a result, there are many fewer vulnerable households currently, in the economically difficult time that we are in, with high indebtedness in relation to the value of the home and in relation to the income they have to pay off on the loans. This means that many fewer households now find themselves in a difficult financial situation if, for example, a person loses his job when it is difficult for companies to keep their employees. Of course, it's a good idea – and it's one of the values of the amortisation requirement – that when times are difficult and when households get tougher the economy can make an exception and thus also increase households' financial resources when times are bad. It is therefore a question of building buffers in good times and releasing requirements in bad times. I am very surprised – this is what is fundamental for the whole crisis management framework both at EU level and in Sweden. Does Dennis Dioukarev mean that we should not impose capital requirements on banks either when good times are at hand because there may be a different situation when bad times are at hand? This goes completely against the idea of having a crisis management framework and ensuring that stability in the economy is built up. We have managed the housing market in Sweden in the extremely difficult situation for the economy that the pandemic has put us in. We have rising house prices instead of falling, as many speculated. We continue to have a very high level of construction – 54,000 homes are expected to enter the housing market this year. Interest in booking new production is increasing in Sweden unlike in many other countries. We see that we have stability in the Swedish economy and in the Swedish housing market because we have managed to make the tough decisions. The Swedish Democrats are clearly unable to do this, and I regret that.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-761	Madam President, I would like Momodou Jallow has asked me how I view the criticism of the proposal to introduce a government start-up loan for first-time buyers, what measures I am prepared to take to reduce the negative effects of introducing a government start-up loan for first-time buyers and whether I am prepared to implement reforms that will make it easier for more young people to get a lease right. The background to Momodou Malcolm Jallow's questions is that the government has decided to instruct a special investigator to make proposals to facilitate first-time buyers in the housing market. According to its directives, the investigator is to explain, inter alia, how the proposals made can promote long-term debt for those concerned. The investigator shall also explain the possible effects of the proposals on the housing market, in particular the risk of higher prices and undesirable distribution effects. The criticisms and risks referred to by Momodou Jallow in his interpellation are thus dealt with in the directives. The investigator shall submit his proposals by 1 November 2021. The Government then takes a position on the proposals. In his interpellation, Momodou Malcolm Jallow makes a start-up loan to first-time buyers in contrast to efforts to make it easier for young people to acquire a rental right. It is a contradiction that I am not willing to endorse either as a description of the challenges in the housing market or as a description of government policy. There is a need for more safe ways into the housing market, both on the rented and on the owned side. A couple who are expecting a child and want to move in together in a owned house can be in an equally urgent need for support as a young person who lives in second place and finds it difficult to get into the regular housing market. Creating one's own home in the form of a village community with others may be the alternative to buying or renting one's home for some people. The government is also making targeted efforts to increase young people's chances of acquiring housing in the form of a rental agreement throughout the country. One example is investment support for the construction of rental dwellings. The recipient of investment aid must now offer the municipality where the housing is built the equivalent of one eighth of the apartments to young people under the age of 31 or as social contracts. Without the investment aid, many of these homes would never be built.
i-S1AvbYmYoM31eSPXKAYT8A	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Bolund, for your answer. Today, Sweden has one of the world's most indebted and indebted populations. Most of these debts are loans taken out to finance home purchases. In the previous debate, Per Bolund said that the international assessors, including the IMF, say that Swedish household indebtedness is a financial risk to the country's economy. That's exactly what I'm saying. The high indebtedness of Swedish households has been discussed here several times, as happened today in the previous debate. Household debt as a proportion of disposable income is constantly increasing and has almost doubled since the 1990s. This is undoubtedly a major problem, and I am quite sure that Per Bolund agrees with me on that. This entails risks for society as a whole, but above all for the individual household. High indebtedness makes households particularly weak and subject to changes in interest rates. An increase in interest rates would lead to an increase in the cost of an economic crisis, and as unemployment – as it is now – rises every single day, the likelihood of a fall in prices on the housing market increases. Among other things, it is in the newspapers today. Despite this, the government recently commissioned a special investigator to make proposals on how a government start-up loan for people who are going to buy their first home can be designed. Is it really the task of the state to subsidise the purchase of housing and to make it easier for a limited group of young people to go into debt for the rest of their lives? Per Bolund said a few minutes ago, in the previous debate, that he remembers the crisis of the 1990s and how people took large loans and could not pay. Over-indebtedness became very great, and it became a major problem—there are still people who are struggling today to pay these debts. Why does Per Bolund want to continue with this today, despite what has been said by international assessors that this is a great risk and that Sweden has one of the world's largest debts? Why does Per Bolund want to expose these young people to the same risk and problems? I can't understand that. This is a time when there are already an enormous number of subsidies for tenant-owners, but almost none for rentals. We are struggling to get support or subsidies for rental apartments. We in the Left Party have put in our budget more money when it comes to investment aid is what the government has done. We can see that housing shortages, homelessness, segregation and overcrowding are increasing. We see what this pandemic has done; people have lost their jobs. Yet Per Bolund wants more people to be in debt. Why?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-772	Madam President, I would like Sometimes the caste is reversed in the political debate. In an interpellation debate, one may seem to want to stop everyone from buying a home; in the next interpellation debate, one is suddenly the one who is just going to burn the loan debt for households without any restrictions. That may be the case in politics at times. The truth isn't black or white, it's somewhere in between. I can answer Momodou Malcolm Jallow's question as to why we want to investigate better opportunities for young people to enter the housing market, which this investigation should look at and not just start-up loans. So it's a broader palette than that. We think that we should have housing in the housing market that is suitable for every household's needs. Not everyone has a need for a rental apartment or a need to buy a home, but there are many different needs in many different types of households. We have different preferences, and households are different in size. Some have children, some do not have children, some have high income and some have low income. We simply need to ensure that we have a housing market that meets the broad needs that exist. I have stood in this House during many debates and interpellation debates and have defended the fact that we have imposed strict and strict restrictions on mortgages not being able to run away and not to burn the housing market and pricing even more than before. It is precisely because I do not want to see some people in a difficult economic situation because they are unable to pay their loans. But I never said that we don't want people to be able to take mortgages or that you shouldn't be able to buy your own house or your own apartment. Of course, we want a functioning housing market, but this applies to both rented and owned housing. We think it is important that there is a possibility for people to be able to enter the purchased market and not just the leased one. This government has made enormous efforts to increase the construction of rental apartments. I'm incredibly proud of that. As a result of the investment aid received by the government, the construction of rental apartments in Sweden has increased enormously. Now we see how the construction in Sweden goes up rather than down despite the fact that there are economically uncertain times. This is because the government has an active housing policy and that we actually choose to spend financial resources supporting the builder of rental apartments. That's why we also have a new situation in the Swedish housing market, where approximately twice as many rental apartments as right-of-occupancy apartments are built. It also makes it a better choice of rental apartments, but I think there should be an opportunity for young people to also, if they now see it as a better solution for their own future, step into the part of the housing market where the owned stock is located. I also think that Momodou Malcolm Jallow suffers a bit of historylessness. We have not always made political efforts that have only supported the rental right or built rental apartments in Sweden, but we have also had a long tradition of providing the opportunity for people with lower incomes to have their own, owned housing. The entire self-home movement, which existed in Sweden during the first decades of the 20th century, aimed precisely at giving people the opportunity to get loans to get a owned housing that suited their conditions, their housing situation and their family situation. It's a history that I think we should be proud of and remember. That is why I do not think it is sound to consider, as Momodou Jallow seems to do, that it is by definition wrong to find ways of lowering the thresholds for people to also be able to enter the owned housing market. As I said, I am proud that we have made great efforts to get more rental apartments with reasonable rents. So far, 38 000 apartments have received support for the government's activity. It is apartments with lower rents that come out thanks to government policy.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-782	Madam President, I would like One moment you stand and say that household indebtedness is a risk to the economy, and the other moment you say that you should ensure that more people take out loans. It does not make sense for the Swedish people who sit and listen, and I am glad that Per Bolund has understood that. One moment you say one thing and the other moment you say something completely different. The Left Party has absolutely no problem with a housing market for the leased and owned stock. We also want that, but as things stand, the government has subsidised the owned stock considerably more than it has done with the rental stock. That's a problem, and that's what we're talking about. In fact, a balance must be created in the housing market, which we do not have today. The Left Party, for example, has proposed the establishment of a system of government peaks. We do not have infinite resources, but we must use the limited resources that we have in the most effective way. Instead of giving loans to individuals, a very limited group of young people who are in debt for the rest of their lives, the question is why can we not invest in building more housing so that more people can have a place to live, that is, in rental apartments. Investment aid is something that we welcome, but what the government is investing is not enough. Sixty-four thousand apartments are to be built. How much have you built? According to Boverket, this is far fewer than required. Instead of investing more to achieve this particular objective, we want to give loans to young people who are going to be in debt. That is something we know can cause problems. It is a risk not only to individual households but also to the economy as a whole. This has been criticised quite openly. Tor Borg, analyst at Boverket, has criticised this proposal. A reform like this will not help the people who are currently farthest from the housing market, it has been said. It also stresses that preferential loans can be difficult to move forward from and therefore risk creating unwanted lock-in effects. Peter Englund, Professor Emeritus of Economics at the Stockholm School of Economics, believes that the Government's proposal will drive up the prices of tenant-ownerships even more and that government start-up loans also risk leading to even more rent rights being converted into tenant-ownerships. Reformation is one of the biggest problems we see today. You take rental apartments, you take the commons, and they transform the apartments in all municipalities, especially here in Stockholm. This proposal says the critics will lead to more leases being redesigned. Is that the kind of housing policy we want to pursue? Is this the kind of housing policy that is going to eliminate the whole problem of overcrowding and homelessness? It is not, and that is why we must use the resources that we have more effectively. The proposal that we have put forward on top government loans and that resources should go to those who actually build aims to ensure that they build rental apartments that are a form of housing that is accessible to everyone – regardless of whether you have had the opportunity to save money, whether you are rich or poor and whatever your background. That is where we should invest if we want to help more and use the resources in the most effective way.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-791	Madam President, I would like No, I am saying exactly the same thing as I have done in all the debates in this pulpit, whether it is against Swedish democrats or left-wing parties I am debating. My goal, which I am also proud that we have succeeded in, is to ensure that we have a well-functioning mortgage market in Sweden and a well-functioning financing market for those who need to be able to invest in a new home. But it also requires that the mortgage market does not build up major risks for the future, either in individual households or for the economy as a whole. It is a question of constantly balancing the two values with each other, and that is exactly what I have been doing as Minister of Finance. The rate of indebtedness has fallen quite sharply, and we now have a much better situation in the housing market. For example, since this government took office, we are now building at a rate that we have not seen for many decades. We have also managed, with the measures we have taken, to increase the construction of rental apartments. According to the latest statistics from Boverket, approximately 30 000 rental apartments were built in 2020. At the same time, 15 000 apartments were built. It is a reverse situation to what it was like before this government took office when very many and very expensive apartments were built, which also increased indebtedness strongly in households. There is also the construction of small houses that are now also going up. It is interesting how both Momodou Malcolm Jallow and other assessors can draw very reliable conclusions about what the investigation will come up with and what effects it will have. We are a little more humble in the government and let the investigator come forward with his proposals and also in the investigation account for the effects that these proposals may have. Then we look at the proposals, analyse them and see if we support the conclusions. We also send them out for a referral so that others can share their views and say if they think this is a good idea to go forward with or not. To go out on the first day after we set up an investigation and say that the proposals that have not even arrived are wrong, I think, is to get on quite high horses. I am a little concerned by the tone, which constantly reflects that anything that lowers the thresholds for people to buy a home is politics that goes in the wrong direction while all the measures that give people the opportunity to rent their home are policies that go in the right direction. We haven't acted that way through history. Historically, we have made an effort to give people the opportunity to get the accommodation that suits them. I'd like to stick to that tradition. Let us remember the self-home movement and the incredibly important efforts made by the public to give people the opportunity to buy a home. We also have a proud tradition in Sweden of providing loans for studies. Student loans enable people who do not have a large income or a large savings capital to make a future investment in order to gain the knowledge needed to get a good job and a good life. Why, then, is it so wrong to also have loans that go to make another major future investment, in order to buy a home that suits your needs? I find it difficult to see why it would be ideologically wrong to give people the opportunity to buy a home, to be able to move where work is or where you can get a good education. We have spent more money on investment aid in the budget. So what Momodou Malcolm Jallow is asking for has already been done by the government. It has also led to the fact that the construction of rental apartments, which are already increasing, can now increase even more. We have also made other efforts that Momodou Jallow is calling for. For example, we have increased the housing allowance for families with children now during the pandemic, so that people can cover their housing costs when the economic situation is harsher. On point by point, then, we have an active housing policy. I'm proud of that.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-803	Madam President, I would like We agree with the criticism from Boverket and the Tenants' Association. The reason is simple. We believe that quite different reforms are needed if more young people are to enter the housing market. Making it easier for a limited group of young people to go into debt to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment cannot be the task of the State. With unlimited resources, it could have been done and offered to everyone. But you can't. The state has limited resources, especially in these pandemic times. Instead, the state should make it easier for more young people to get a tenancy agreement. It is a form of tenure that, unlike the right-of-occupancy right, is available to everyone, regardless of the background and regardless of whether you have saved funds or not. Reforms that make it easier for young people to get a tenancy permit not only benefit young people for a long time to come, but also the national economy as a whole. The Left Party therefore wants state resources to be used to increase support for the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents, as mentioned earlier. Finally, of course, any conversions from tenancy to tenant-ownership must be stopped. With this proposal, it risks continuing. We would like it to be stopped. All in all, these reforms would increase the possibility for significantly more young people to get a tenancy permit, a home of their own that does not involve a high level of indebtedness for the individual and a growing debt mountain for society. It's incredibly important. That is how you conduct functioning housing policy. It is also responsible economic policy. We know that. It is perhaps Per Bolund who suffers from the lack of history that he is talking about. As Per Bolund said before this debate, this poses a risk to society and the individual household. Why do we have to repeat the same mistakes one more time?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-809	Madam President, I would like That's exactly what we're not doing. The investigation that we have put in place looks at different ways to lower the thresholds for young people and for first-time buyers to be able to enter the owned housing market. It doesn't just have to be young. It may also be people who have recently come to our country or people who have lived in a rental apartment for a long time and want to step in and buy their own accommodation. We should also remember that the rental right is also not available to everyone. In the past, for example, there have been fairly high demands on the ability to pay and the like from landlords in order to obtain a first-hand contract at all. Here too, the government has made efforts to get the parties to find a better model that gives more people a better chance of getting a first-hand contract, regardless of their income. I think that's important, too. I would also like to point out that those affected by the poor functioning of the housing market, such as young people, seem to welcome the fact that we are setting up this investigation. They want to see a government that is taking steps towards a better functioning housing market. For example, I want to have housing.nu, an organization for young people who find it difficult to get a foothold in the housing market, welcomes us to set up the investigation. I think that Momodou Malcolm Jallow should do the same. I would like to see a housing policy that is not characterised by ideological blindings, in which we do not refrain from making efforts to oppose any ideological belief or the like. That is also the policy that I and the government stand for. What I am aiming for, and as we are doing, is to make efforts in the broad sense of the Swedish housing market, to make it work as well as possible. We are prepared to turn all the stones around in order for the housing market to deliver what we think the Swedish people deserve, i.e. housing suitable for that particular household's needs at that particular time. I think it is an ambition that also has historic viability. That's how governments have worked before. I am proud to belong to a government that is prepared to do what is necessary to get a better functioning housing market for both owned and rented housing.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-814	Madam President, I would like Linda Lindberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to deal with undue payments and fraud in grants. She has also asked whether I intend to take an initiative for a legislative change to give the relevant authorities the tools to ensure a good working environment and to prevent the financing of crime. In order for the social security system to be perceived as credible, the right person and the right company must receive compensation. It is therefore important to give our paying agencies the opportunity to ensure that every payment made is correct so that it becomes right from the start. In recent years, a large number of studies have presented proposals in this area, and work on handling the investigation proposals is a high priority within the Government Office. The government has already taken a number of strong measures. Among other things, the civil record crime has been reintroduced and an investigation has been set up to reduce errors in civil records. In addition, the Government has tightened up both the Grant Crime Act and the Act on Intelligence Obligations in the event of incorrect payments from the welfare systems. The Government has also clarified in Försäkringskassan's instruction that the authority should participate in the joint work against serious and organised crime. Försäkringskassan has in recent years developed its investigation methodology to counteract incorrect payments and grant offences, including by using risk profiling and special investigation teams. In addition, through an increased number of random checks, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has managed to prevent crime and thus prevent far more irregular payments than in previous years even before the payments were made. The Agency also has ongoing contact with the Inspection for Care and Care regarding suspected rogue assistance providers and has worked together with the Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority to improve the handling of grant offences. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government has proposed a parliament-bound target to reduce the wrong payments from welfare systems, and a total of SEK 189 million will be provided to the relevant authorities to step up efforts to counteract undue payments. As part of the work, the Government intends to establish a function at the Swedish Financial Control Agency, which will analyse, among other things, follow-up and contribute to the coordination of the authorities' work to counteract undue payments. The initiative is also reflected in the regulatory letters of several paying authorities and includes, among other things, a new target for these authorities as well as reporting requirements related to suspected grant offences and recovery. Both Försäkringskassan and the Pension Agency are given the task of carrying out and reporting risk analyses regarding incorrect payments. They shall also indicate the measures taken by the authorities to facilitate the provision of accurate information by individuals on their application and for the duration of their reimbursement. The aim is to prevent undue payments. A number of proposals for legislative changes in the area of control and recovery are being prepared within the Government Office. In the area of control, proposals received from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and proposals that have been dealt with in various investigations are included. On 26 October 2020, the Health and Social Care Inspection submitted its report Proposals for measures regarding rogue assistance providers to the Government, and on 1 December 2020 the report Towards a data-driven approach. The reports contain several proposals aimed at improving the effectiveness of the Inspection for Health Care and Care Work against rogue companies and improving the Agency's cooperation with other authorities. The proposals are currently being prepared in the Government Office and the Government intends to come back to the matter. I would like to emphasise that a good working environment for all employees in our agencies is an important issue for the government. Responsibility for the work environment lies with the respective authority, but the government continuously monitors the work environment issue.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-824	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. I am pleased that the Social Democrats too are taking seriously the problem of growing welfare crime. Curiosity is the fact that the moderate-led government introduced the 2007 Grant Crimes Act. Interestingly, the Social Democrats were against the law when it was introduced. The argument was that no further legislation was needed to curb the fraud. In fact, it was Göran Persson's government that removed the civil record crime, which this government has now reintroduced. Very well. Initially, it is important to also mention that the intention of the interpellation is to discuss the grant crime aimed at financing terrorism, organised crime or similar criminal activities. Although the daily subsidy fraud with one or more additional parental allowance days is serious, this debate aims to discuss how money intended for Swedish welfare funds instead fund the purchase of, for example, automatic carbines in Syria. Madam President, I would like The Swedish welfare, together with the self-image of the humanitarian power, is something that Swedish government representatives are happy to speak out for. Unfortunately, it has not only proved to contain loopholes and insufficient tools to prevent economic crime against welfare, but it has also been shown to fund organised crime and terrorism in recent years. However, if at the moment we ignore the problem of IS warriors, this is not something new. There is evidence from as early as 1995 in the so-called Cheating investigation, which was done by the then Swedish National Audit Office. It was about the existence of cheating with benefits and social benefits. It had turned out that a number of people in Malmö had already 1992–1993 made large amounts of contributions to later go on holiday to their home countries. What I want to say is that this crime in substance is nothing new. When we have gone through the reports, we have seen that a recurring theme in all the investigations has been the difficulties of the authorities to create an overall picture of what is actually happening. It is about a large amount of information, false data and people who in many cases know the system and the regulations before and without and who know exactly how to go about falling through the control. For reasons of confidentiality, one authority may not communicate information to the other authority. In some cases, letter mail is still used in applications for extracts. This, Madam President, is particularly remarkable in 2021 and in the digitised world in which we live. Madam President, I would like We need legislation and governance to facilitate the work of the authorities involved in this complex crime, not the other way round. This is a piece of legislation that facilitates the exchange of information and allows for the exchange of confidential documents. We should also get to the payment control authority proposed in the investigation Control for increased trust. It is simply an authority that should prevent, prevent and detect wrong payments from welfare systems. The government has been leading the country since 2014. There are reports and investigations requested by, among other things, a Social Democratic-led government a long time ago. Why has no action been taken? Why the slowness? It is not good enough just to add more funds when the cranes are still wide open. Is the Government willing, for example, to set up a new authority to prevent and detect undue payments?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-832	Madam President, I would like In the interpellation, the issue of assistance fraud is raised. This is an issue which I do not really like to debate, as assistance-dependent and well-managed companies are often drawn over the same lines as criminal companies and organised crime. There are, in fact, many more important issues that I would like to talk about when it comes to assistance. Nevertheless, I choose to enter the debate. When the police authorities classify welfare crime as one of the most serious forms of crime against society, it is indeed high time to take serious action against this problem. It is good that the government pays some attention to the problem, but the question is whether the solution is risk analysis, recovery or that the authorities take measures to facilitate individuals to provide accurate information when applying. This is not wrong in principle, so don't get me wrong. But here we are talking about people who seem to be fully aware of how to fill out applications in the best way for themselves. They're in full control. Recovery should, of course, be made in the event of undue payments, but the basic problem is that the system is being deliberately exploited. That is also where the problems need to be tackled. This may, for example, involve strengthening the control functions. The Social Insurance Agency shall be able to check the providers of assistance by consulting or sharing information with other authorities or by requesting bank data. This is something that also the National Intelligence Centre lifts up in its so-called Olle Report. It is a report that aims to highlight the problem of work permits and personal assistance and to highlight the vulnerabilities that exist in the systems. The report states that crime is difficult to access and investigation-intensive, and that the authorities handle basically the same case but lack for reasons of confidentiality access to each other's information, which Linda was aware of. This cannot be called effective law enforcement. Madam President, I would like The report also highlights the ruthless exploitation of labour migration and the fact that people live in slave-like conditions and are being blackmailed, but also that people act as goalkeepers for different companies. When one company is discovered cheating, people simply move to another company that has been dormant. I therefore fully understand that this is not easy to access, but this is a problem that has been known for a long time without any direct action. Linda Lindberg uses the word Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the Minister is as distressed by the report's conclusions as I am. It's scary reading. It is not without wonder that it has been allowed to continue more or less unhindered. The report describes organised crime schemes where the rules on state assistance compensation are used in combination with labour migration. The survey shows identified links with organised crime as well as violent extremism. It is bad that personal assistance work permits are systematically used for assistance fraud. Madam President, I would like The report also describes as remarkable how information on rogue assistance providers using the work permit scheme seems to have been in the hands of the authorities for several years, but it has been dispersed and rendered invisible in the system. These are serious conclusions, Madam President, and I would therefore like to hear how the Minister views the report and what action he intends to take.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-840	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg and Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, for raising the issue in this House. I also thank you for giving us the opportunity to have a discussion about what the government is doing and intend to do in the future, as well as how Parliament can contribute to the work in the fight against organised crime within our welfare systems. It is just as Carina Ståhl Herrstedt says: It is a matter of wrong payments, misunderstandings and mistakes in welfare systems. What we are talking about now, however, is organised crime. It is different types of organised crime that aim to infiltrate our welfare systems in order to receive public funds. Public funds are thus used for criminal activities. It is therefore a question, on the one hand, of obtaining resources to which operators are not entitled and, on the other hand, of using the money to carry out criminal activities in other areas. I can assure Members of Parliament that we take this very seriously. We do it for a variety of reasons. The first thing I want to mention is that I am a Minister of Social Security at a time when our social security policies have become more and more restrictive. There are lots of people who get hurt because health insurance does not work for them and because security has deteriorated. The assistance, mentioned by Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, is another area of basic security and empowerment for people. At this time, we must all put our energies into improving our social security, increasing security and fixing the health insurance that has broken, which affects people. However, in order to be able to fix our social security policies and to increase the security of people, for the insured, for our Swedish citizens, we must at the same time also put an end to the crime that is threatening to the system. What happens when organised crime enters public welfare is that our systems are threatened and people's trust in our systems is threatened. If you want to stand up for Swedish social security, if you want to restore security in the event of illness, you want to ensure that we have a disability policy that puts people's empowerment and security at the centre, you have to take this fight very seriously. Then we must also be prepared to slaughter sacred cows. We have to put away prestige between parties and get rid of locks. Madam President, I would like We now bring a lot of resources to Försäkringskassan to intensify their work, develop methodology and hire people who work with these issues. Right now we are looking at the proposal that exists to give the Social Insurance Agency criminal investigation and law enforcement powers. It's a very central question. Then there are lots of complicated legal issues to deal with. We must do that, because the Social Insurance Agency must have better muscles and tools to combat organised crime. Again, we are not talking about wrong payments due to misunderstandings. We are talking about the fight against organised crime in our society. A great deal of action has been taken in recent years. The Act on Data Obligations in Cooperation against Certain Organised Crime, which entered into force in 2016, is about enabling information sharing and cooperation between authorities. The Swedish Grant Crimes Act and the Act on Notification Obligations in the event of incorrect payments were strengthened on 1 January 2020. Measures have been taken concerning the Swedish Tax Agency's control activities linked to the population register. There's been a lot of things going on. But that's not a reason for us to stop now. I think we need to step up this work. We will prioritise this issue in 2021 by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Government. I welcome the commitment shown by Parliament. If we can take the next step together, we can also put an end to this type of organised crime.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-848	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I agree. It's time. It's great that the government is on its toes, because it's really urgent. However, I want to back up the tape a little and go into what I said right at the beginning of my speech on automatic carbines in Syria. The Government expressed its concern in Expressen when it was discovered that 45 IS terrorists have been able to support themselves in Syria through Swedish grant systems for quite a long time. These included parental allowance, child benefit and student funds that were wrongly paid. The Government stated:中 This is more than system-critical, it is a real threat to our society. I share in part the statement of the Government in that part that the picture as a whole is a threat to our society, but it is, after all, the system that allows it to happen. The good will of the former governments of the country and that government has not followed developments. What we have seen is not all the reports and signals that have come to light, as has happened as far back as 1995. We need to tighten up the requirements for access to Swedish welfare, which is most primary. It is unworthy that this can happen at all. It is an unwieldy handling of tax revenue. At the other end, people who have worked and behaved their whole lives are turning and turning their crowns. That is extremely provocative, Madam President. Requirements linked to residence-based benefits need to be strengthened and reviewed. It must also be made clearer what is a legal residence in Sweden. I believe that a great deal needs to be done to ensure that people who apply for these subsidies continue to live and reside in the country. Misuse of identity is another aspect that is particularly highlighted as a growing and serious problem. A person may have several different identities, but little happens. For example, it could be possible to make checkpoints. Other solutions could be for grants to be offset by visits to the authority prior to payment or using biometric verification type thumbprints. In any case, we need to know who we are paying subsidies to and whether they are even in Sweden or the EU. Madam President, I would like It should not be possible to organise and systematically deceive the Swedish welfare system on huge sums of money. Then I'll be unsearched over to the assistance business. My colleague Carina Ståhl Herrstedt has just spoken about this, which is why I intend to be brief. I fully agree with what the honourable Member has said. The assistance industry is indeed one of the areas that has come to be the victim of crime. SVT only writes about this today, and the Migration Agency points out that the assistance industry is particularly exposed to rogue and criminal actors. Just like Ståhl Herrstedt, there is evidence of trafficking in human beings and scams, not least linked to labour immigration. The disabled are collected from other countries and brought to Sweden and then placed in housing while the assistance company charges hours for care and supervision. Of course, the disabled becomes the big victim, as care or support is often absent or of very poor quality. This is inhumane and unscrupulous. It is an incredibly important issue to deal with, this time not only from an economic perspective but especially from a human perspective. I understand that the Government takes seriously how distorted and gullible the system is. It is important that we get control and have adequate measures. Or does the Government think that it is in fact sufficient to provide more funds for criminal investigation activities by the relevant authorities?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-856	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. These are important questions that deserve answers. But above all, they deserve solutions. It is, after all, the case that it is the aid beneficiaries and the caring companies who are affected. It is time to address the problems where they really belong, so that the focus is on the system errors that exist instead of blaming a whole assistance reform – which I do not think the Minister has done. There must be a system that meets the right and the measures that do not affect those who do the right thing, but that directly hits those who are criminal and the crime they commit. We cannot have lucrative systems that enable and facilitate crime. When assistance fraud is combined with labour migration, opportunities for profit can be increased. The risk of detection will then also be reduced, as the current system looks, because then control will be allocated to several different authorities that have confidentiality between them and cannot overcome this. The report concludes that free labour migration is one of the main causes of fraud. Perhaps it is better and more important to focus there than on the issue of helping people fill out applications. Now I'm ralliing. I couldn't help myself. The pursuit of the rogue and criminal actors must never – and this is the most important thing – result in those who are in actual need of assistance being squeezed. The Olle report shows clear system errors, which I have described here and which actually make cheating possible. Are these system errors something that the Minister intends to remedy?
i-RnbQdRuVXtn5jYEimanmbQ	Madam President, I would like I thank Carina Ståhl Herrstedt and Linda Lindberg for the discussion and questions. We are proud that we live in a country that has a general welfare system and that throughout the 20th century has expanded welfare and continued to safeguard welfare. We see cracks in welfare, not least linked to health insurance. We also see serious threats to the system that has been built up through hard work over the last 100 years. One of those threats is what is described by the MPs here. I read the report that Carina Ståhl Herrstedt refers to the first week it came. For my part, I was strengthened by the conviction that we must give priority to the fight against organised crime in welfare this year. I was also strengthened by the conviction that all parties have a duty to review the policies of labour immigration and the rules there. I am pleased that there is currently an investigation into changing those regulations. There is probably a need for a self-critical analysis by those parties that have had an over-reliance on a liberal framework for labour immigration that also affects other systems, as we see in this discussion. There is, as I said, an investigation that is very central to the question of how we can get to grips with the problems that we see with crime in the field of assistance. We do not come from the fact that it is important for the government to provide more resources to the authorities that are subject to attacks, especially the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. It is important that these authorities develop the methodology for law enforcement and prevention. But those resources must be complemented by the right legal tools to tackle crime. That is why we are currently looking at the issue of law enforcement and criminal investigation powers at the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. There was a proposal from the previous investigation that this should happen. But the referral bodies were very critical of the arrangement. We are now looking at what we can do to get the right tools for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, while at the same time addressing the objections to this model. This work is currently under way at the Ministry of Social Affairs in parallel with the intensive dialogue we have with Försäkringskassan for this year's activities. It is clear from the regulatory letter that this work is a very priority. I previously worked on administrative policy issues in the government as Minister of Civil Affairs. I then came into contact on several occasions with questions about how the protection of privacy puts an end to the law enforcement and crime prevention activities of our authorities. What I can see now is that a great deal has happened in this area in recent years. Several steps have been taken and many steps have been taken. It is about facilitating cooperation between authorities and sharing information. However, there are still some issues that are affected by the investigations currently being prepared at the Government Office. The investigations are on our table, and we're working with them right now. If there is any doubt as to whether what we are debating at the moment are important issues, I recommend to all Members of this House and to all those in attendance to read the report that has been touched upon in this debate. The report shows how criminal actors do as they have always done in the history of the world. They are looking innovatively for revenues that can finance their criminal activities. It is nothing new and it is nothing unique for Sweden, but it is the duty of the state to show the resistance of the strong state and society to the infiltration attempts of criminal actors.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-873	Madam President, I would like We can see in this House that crimes against the common welfare system, like many other categories of crime, are a cause for concern both to us and to the citizen. It is not just about the economic loss but about citizens' trust and confidence in the common welfare system. It is also clear from several reports that citizens' confidence in the functions and legitimacy of the system is at least as important as the delivery of the system. It is reported that people who have moved back to their home countries outside the EU's borders, like the 45 IS terrorists we talked about earlier, continue to collect various benefits from the Swedish welfare system for long periods. As I said earlier, it is a mockery of all insured, poor pensioners and everyone else who contributes every month to the Swedish benefit system. The government with its humanitarian hubris seems to think that Sweden should be enough for all the world's population. I think nothing annoys people more than what we are talking about in this debate and which can be summed up briefly as injustice and wrong. There are people who are insured, pensioners who are put on a hill, poverty, child poverty and so on, and then there is a wrong flow of funds at the other end. If we really want to get things right, it needs to be tackled, as the Government says, from several quarters. At the same time, it is important that it does not affect those who are entitled to support. We are in favour of a generous social security system for those who are entitled to it. You should be able to trust the welfare when you need it. We simply need to get proper legislation as a matter of urgency and tighten up the requirements for access to Swedish welfare. It's extremely primary in my eyes. Why should citizens continue to pay into the common welfare system if quality slows down as criminals systematically drain it?
i-DGvj3qeFg8FbaPmBpfmMee	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg and Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, for the interpellation debate. I would like to conclude by saying the following. The greatest asset in Swedish society is the high level of trust that exists in our country. We are one of the countries in the world that stands out. People trust each other in Sweden. People trust the state and public institutions. If there is something we should do, some part of our society that we should protect, it is precisely to maintain the high degree of trust. What does that trust threaten? Well, it is when people feel that public systems do not live up to the legitimate expectations of righteousness, equal treatment, respect for legislation and that the right people should be entitled to the benefits decided by this House. In the struggle for the maintenance of the high degree of trust in our society, these issues come first. It is an obligation that we have towards our citizens. Over the last 24 hours, we in this House have discussed what is happening in the world around us, the attacks on democracy around the world. Very much of what we have seen in the outside world in recent weeks that scares us begins with people's trust and confidence in public systems being damaged in those countries. Let us not accept that this is happening in our country. The first step we can take is to restore the protection and financial security of our social security policies and to ensure that our citizens receive the security they deserve in the event of illness, parenthood, reduced working capacity due to disability and in the event of old age. In parallel, let us step up efforts to combat the criminal attacks on the Swedish welfare system. I would like to thank Members for their interpellation and for their commitment and interest in the matter.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-883	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me what measures the government intends to take in connection with Statskontoret's report. The report deals with the phenomenon described by Statskontoret as when a municipality through its actions receives a person with financial assistance to move to another municipality, without the person himself having expressed a clear desire to move. I welcome the fact that this is being raised when I share Mikael Oscarsson's view that so-called social dumping is an urgent issue. Since I took office as Minister of Civil Affairs, I have actively pursued this issue and taken the initiative that Statskontoret was given the task of writing the report. I have had a dialogue with many different municipalities on this issue, including at a round table meeting in January 2020, a follow-up meeting before Christmas and also during visits to different municipalities. Statskontoret was tasked by the Government in February 2020 to define and map this phenomenon and to make proposals for possible orientations for measures that would be effective to counter the problem in this area. The assignment was presented in mid-November 2020. Many municipalities, especially municipalities with less structural conditions such as low tax and high unemployment, describe that active participation in residence in another municipality, so-called social dumping, is a problem. I take this seriously. I am aware that many municipalities today face different challenges and that the challenges vary between different municipalities. It is, of course, up to everyone to choose their place of residence and to move between municipalities. What the problem is about is when responsibility and public service costs are transferred to the receiving municipality, including without the municipalities having the opportunity to prepare themselves. This has consequences for receiving municipalities, particularly in the form of difficulties in planning activities and resource and social problems. Of course, there is also a risk that individuals might get caught. It really is an expression of a lack of solidarity between municipalities. It is too early at this stage to give a strong indication of what measures the government will take. But I would like to emphasise that I and the other government are actively working on analysing possible measures, such as increased cooperation, agreements and exchange of experiences between municipalities. But we also look at the problem in a broader perspective. There is also a need for joint work between the state and the municipality and a trust and good dialogue between the municipalities.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-890	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that is growing in importance. It is therefore a question of a municipality urging socially vulnerable people to move even though they do not want to or require a move as a condition for financial support. That is precisely what we call social dumping. Unfortunately, this is something that has become more common in recent years. According to the report from Statskontoret to which the Government refers, 63 per cent of the 191 municipalities that participated say that they have received new residents who have been assisted by their former municipality of residence to move. In many cases small municipalities are affected, such as Kramfors, Finspång and from my home country Tierp and Heby. In Upsala Nya Tidning, an article refers to this. An interview has been conducted with Jenny Johnsson, head of unit at individual and family care in Heby Municipality. She says: In the metropolitan municipalities, we often see that new arrivals receive temporary housing contracts during the start-up period in Sweden. But when the contracts then expire, we have noticed that there are a lot of people who have been helped to go to Heby. Many of those who are exposed to this are newly arrived. There are also people with addiction, homeless people and people with a need for shelter. According to the report, it is a question of these people being left out of the urban area. There is less communication, and it is longer for school and for community service. This weakens the chances of entering work life, and it becomes a negative spiral. Several municipal representatives with whom I have been in contact testify to the fact that those who are most affected are the children. If you are newcomers, you already have a tough challenge to begin with. You don't know the language, and it's a new culture. If you then have to move several times, it means that it becomes even heavier backpack. This is why I began to get involved in this. I started looking at it, and I started talking to different people. There are various proposals that Statskontoret highlights, and it does not seem to be rocket science, if you say so. Statskontoret says that the Government must tell the National Board of Health and Welfare to make it clear – if it is any municipality that has not yet understood it – that it is against the Social Services Act to do this and to make it necessary for continued support for the people concerned to apply outside their own municipality. Statskontoret also proposes – and this really feels like something that is very obvious – that the county boards should work for cooperation between municipalities. That should be a matter of course! We live in the same country, and we have the same legislation. It's really low-hanging fruit. Another point concerns the relaxation of confidentiality rules. This is something that gets very tragic. A municipal representative I spoke to said: It would have been very good if we had found out that there were problems with this family and these people already before. Now it takes a lot of months before we discover it! Government! Isn't this something that the government realizes you don't have to think about much longer? These proposals should be low-hanging fruit to implement.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-899	Madam President, I would like The government gave this mission because we believe that this is a very important issue. I took the initiative in meetings and in visiting municipalities that have these problems because we need a survey of what this looks like. We get different pictures described, not least from smaller municipalities, about the lack of contacts between municipalities. It is a question of not having any information at all between themselves. No one would have found out how common this was. That is why the report is very important for us to know about this. I believe that it is both a question of various measures to support these municipalities and of ensuring that municipalities understand that they have a shared responsibility. There is no man's country, but you live in a municipality. And a municipality has responsibility for all its citizens no matter who they are. That in itself is very important. What Statskontoret has developed in its report is partly about what is perhaps very easy to do here and now – that you have cooperation among yourselves. There are municipalities that have it. For example, Sollefteå municipality has developed a policy in which the municipality has contact with property owners and ensures that they have a collaboration around who it is that comes to the municipality. You contact the municipality that has sent a person with subsistence support for a month without doing anything else. So there is a great deal of this that can be done about here and now. Then there are other measures, and I would really like to emphasise that the government is prepared to try other measures too. That is something we need to look at broadly. It concerns several different policy areas. It can be about housing policy, it can be about homeless people and it can be about what support we give for municipalities to take their responsibilities and more. I would really like to emphasise that we are not closing any doors when it comes to looking at various proposals for action.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-905	Madam President, I would like We know this has been going on for a long time. There are several, especially smaller, municipalities that make it very difficult for them. They are already having a tough time getting the economy together, and then the social dumping that is taking place will be felt. It was therefore almost two thirds of the municipalities that responded to it. In my world, I think that one should see as a government that this is the basis for really coming to Parliament with proposals to find solutions to this. I understand that you cannot just snap your fingers to get the problem solved, but these are proposals that I believe there is strong support in Parliament to implement. It is proposed to introduce facilitations in the rules on confidentiality. It is a question that I have heard about in other ways too. Uppsala Municipality had a meeting with members of parliament for Uppsala County a year ago. Then they talked about the same thing but from a different point of view. They said: We have problems with fraudsters. It is a bit like what was touched on in the previous interpellation debate. They said they had frauds where people in part of the municipality lurk the shirt of the municipality and get subsidies through lies. And then you can do the same thing in another part of the municipality. There is therefore also this aspect. Then there is the social aspect, which I was dealing with just now. It is a pity that the municipality x, which for example has given help to families with children who have problems, does not provide any connection when these people then come to the municipality y. Here we have something where we can see directly that for a number of reasons it becomes unreasonable. It does not help the individual, it does not help Sweden, it does not help the municipalities, it does not help anyone not to change this. That's one of them. Then Statskontoret, as I understand it, says that these proposals are some kind of minimum. There's more to it. Here is a proposal from the Christian Democrats. The first two years are the start-up period in which the state pays when you are new arrivals. But we all know, Madam President, that it is very different. There are illiterate people who come to Sweden, and so there are those who come with five years of university education. Our proposal – and I would like to hear what the Government says about it – is to have a flexible start-up period, between two and five years. Then it goes in two directions. If you make such an agreement, for example in three years, the municipality cannot shovel it to another municipality. Then you've made a deal. It also goes the other way, Madam President: if the individual chooses to move and violate the agreement, he also loses the right to the support he otherwise has. Since now Statskontoret has said that these proposals are not enough without more being required, my question is: What do the government and the Social Democrats say about our proposal? Can you imagine that? What further proposals do the government and the Social Democrats have?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-911	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would very much like to welcome the fact that there is a broad political interest in looking at what measures we can take. This is a problem, and I feel that in very many municipalities it is widely seen politically and wants to be involved in discussing this. Furthermore, I do not think we should underestimate contacts between municipalities. SKR as a member organisation also has a responsibility in how to behave between municipalities. In this dialogue, it is also a question of how to inform people, not least when they are moving away with subsistence support. That's the one part that's very important. Then here we are talking about people who are really in danger of getting caught. And it's wide-ranging – it's not just about new arrivals but also about people who may have needed social support, people who have protected housing and more. That is why it is important that the measures that we can strengthen or propose, if they are legislative changes, are well-founded. The Government has very clearly stated that Statskontoret's proposal is interesting and something we hope to be able to come back to quite soon. We also hope that we will be able to put forward proposals that are about being able to make these changes to the municipalities that are actually affected by this. But it is also about other issues. This is about the housing responsibility that the municipalities assume. At the moment, an investigation is being carried out, which Per Bolund is responsible for, which concerns the responsibility we can impose on the municipalities in terms of housing supply. The establishment period and the settlement law are other parts, which Mikael Oscarsson here addresses. It is also part of what the government is looking at in its preparation. I believe that this will involve a mix of information and reinforcements and changes in the responsibilities of municipalities in terms of contacts, but also in terms of legislation. In the current preparation, we look at this widely.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-916	Madam President, I would like It's good to look wide. I welcome the basis that has been made. But what I want to send along – and here I think there is strong pressure from the municipalities involved – is that it must now become a workshop. Political action is now required. I think our idea of a flexible start-up period between two and five years would be very good. Then you get reasonable time to undergo SFI and learn Swedish and social studies. You get a reasonable chance depending on the starting point, if you are illiterate or have higher education, to establish yourself and get a job. It is a concrete proposal which I would like to send along and which I hope the government can take on board. It is the state that decides how many people come to Sweden, and there is much difference between those who come. It is reasonable, then, that this should be made flexible and that the state should take responsibility. Otherwise it ends up in the lap of municipalities that are already having a tough financial situation. Problems are being dumped, and it's not going to be good. As I was aware, children and families with children are also affected in many cases. And so we have these confidentiality rules that make it not overlap. When a municipality knows about the problems, the next municipality will not know about them. We can't have this! Sweden is a country. We have the same legislation. We have a responsibility. When we see that this problem applies not only to any municipality but almost two thirds of the municipalities, it must become a workshop. I hope that the government will now take this along and come up with a proposal in this area.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-921	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Oscarsson for his good questions on this. I also welcome, as I have said before, the fact that we have a debate on this and that there is a great deal of interest in it, because these are important issues – hence the initiative I took as Minister of Civil Affairs to do more. However, I would like to emphasise that in the case of those who are exposed to so-called social dumping, new arrivals are only some of them. It was interesting with this survey, talking about getting more knowledge, which showed that there are considerably more groups involved. That is why it is so important to be right when it comes to proposals for action. Among the first things I think we need to do something about, and which we are currently working on, are precisely contacts between the municipalities and tightening up how to deal with them. It then concerns policies such as housing policy, social policy and others. It is therefore important that we come back with proposals that actually cover several areas. I would like to conclude by saying that we are open to discussing several different proposals and options. We will come back to this issue.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-925	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that network charges do not become even more burdensome for electricity consumers in the future. Electricity networks are a fundamental infrastructure for our society to function and create growth. Electricity networks are also a so-called natural monopoly because it is not economically justified to have two parallel grids competing with each other. It is therefore in the interest of society that the regulation of electricity grid activities should work. As far as cost developments are concerned, I note that since the introduction of the current regulatory model in 2012, costs for electricity grid customers have increased by up to 30%. I also note that the annual investment rate of electricity grid companies has been more or less constant during the same period. This means that the cost increases that we have seen so far cannot be explained by increased investment. Electricity network charges have in many cases only been set after lengthy court proceedings and in principle always in favour of electricity grid operators. During the previous term of office, the government made changes in regulation. We now see that electricity grid charges in 2020 were reduced for the first time in 26 years. This is positive, but there are still fundamental problems in the electricity market that need to be resolved. Sweden has an age-old electricity network that needs to be renewed. Society does not look the same either as when the electricity grids were built. My ambition is to future-proof the regulatory model so that it gives the right signal to the electricity grid companies to invest in the electricity grids where it is needed and to do so at the lowest possible cost to society as a whole. That is why I have invited you to an electricity network dialogue where both the customers, the electricity grid companies and the parliamentary parties are represented. The aim is to create a regulation that provides competitive prices, provides incentives for socio-economicly motivated investments, reduces uncertainty and provides the conditions for meeting future electrification. I think it would be good if we could have a greater long-term perspective and a greater consensus on electricity grid regulation.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-930	Madam President, I would like In fact, Sweden was once a country with cheap electricity and low electricity grid charges. Unfortunately, this is history. Today, electricity costs are very high for households and businesses, as taxes and VAT are being imposed on electricity. On top of this comes very high and steadily rising network charges, although there has been a little n reduction in the last year. But it is still and in the long term a very sharp rise that eats ever bigger holes in Swedish people's wallets. And even on these network charges, as is well known, VAT is added. An important reason for rising network charges is the expansion of wind power and other local electricity generation, which requires the reinforcement of networks, which is largely on the consumer's behalf. Another reason is continued increased electrification, both in companies and in households, which requires reinforced networks. Another important reason is the imbalances that occur throughout the electricity system as a result of the replacement of stable nuclear power with unstable wind power. It also entails the need for reinforced electricity grids. For an owner of a holiday home with minimal electricity consumption, the network charge can today be significantly higher than the cost of the electricity itself. And unlike the supply of electricity itself, you cannot choose network owners, but you are stuck in the agreement that applies to the network company that is active where you live. With ever-increasing network charges, the cost of electricity itself will be an increasingly small part of the total electricity cost of households. This gives a very small incentive to save electricity, as the network charge is essentially unchanged. The reason for my interpellation is the resignation that I encounter in people over a steadily rising online fee that you in no way can affect yourself. We know that these problems are not temporary but are growing as a matter of urgency. If the policy does not act to contain electricity consumers' network charges, I think we can count on some form of electricity rebellion seriously in Sweden. We need to discuss both how costs can be kept down overall and perhaps also how they should be distributed among different actors. In recent years we have seen examples in the state budget of completely meaningless so-called climate initiatives, such as climate anxiety therapy and e-bike premiums. Perhaps some of the climate money in the future could instead be used to finance parts of the large electricity grid expansion. I don't know, but at least I think that all roads should be tried to deal with this issue, because there are actually a lot of people who are concerned.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-937	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to take part in such an important debate on the electricity grids! My vision for the electricity and energy system ahead is about being able to have a strong economic development and combine it with a green transition, not least if we are to have more electric vehicles and industries that switch from fossil energy to green and good fossil-free electricity. We can see how electricity networks have become more important over time. There was a liberalisation a little over 20 years ago in Sweden, where it was somewhat simplified to say that the electricity grids were completed and that competition would be on the electricity trade. That is how you control the natural monopoly, and a natural monopoly to be controlled is that. But we can also see that the networks have become much more important. We also have a number of problems and challenges ahead of us, Madam President. We have had more than a decade of very much litigation or, if you like, regulatory uncertainties. In principle, the government and the state have lost almost every legal dispute in which electricity grid companies have appealed. This creates a great deal of uncertainty, a uncertainty that pushes up risks and costs in the electricity grids. Neither electricity grid companies, energy companies nor other stakeholders are served by uncertainty and so great a twitch in pricing. There are also a number of issues which were not relevant a few decades ago, when the market was liberalised, but which are becoming more important now. For example, there is no formal obligation to connect electricity networks. As a network company, you can only work with storage under limited conditions, even though it is becoming increasingly important in our electricity and energy system. The priority is also due to time if you want to connect a new customer. You don't really make a valuation of whether a customer or a public interest is more important. These are just a few examples of questions that I think one should value in different ways and at the same time take in that Sweden has had three electric crises over the course of just over a year, first in Skåne and Stockholm and then in southern Sweden. There were several reasons for this: the government's tax increases on local electricity generation and a number of other elements. But the core of part of the solution lands in increased investments in electricity grids such as Swedish power grid mains lines but also regional and local networks. Electricity networks are regulated in four-year periods. The next regulatory period will take effect on 1 January 2024 and will run for a number of years. If we are to have a chance to develop new network regulation in Sweden, we need to come up with proposals soon. We only have three years. It must be investigated, it must be referred back, it must be dealt with in parliament and it must be taken by the authorities in order to be applied. Then three years with a choice between a rather short time. I can note that the government has had consultations and discussions, and that is not necessarily wrong. But what is required, if we are to take responsibility for the Swedish electricity grid and develop electricity grid regulation, is to set up a proper electricity grid investigation that produces concrete legislative proposals that can be referred, discussed and landed on Parliament's table in democratic order. My questions, Madam President, to Anders Ygeman are firstly: will the Minister for Energy and the Government meet the Moderates' demand to set up an electricity network investigation with a view to the next regulatory period? Secondly, when will the Minister set up such an investigation?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-946	Madam President, I would like It will be a bit special with two Moderates in the same debate that have so diametrically different funding. Let me start with Jan Ericson, whose reality description almost resembles fairy tales with weak contact with reality. The debate that he is expressing should be held at the moderate party vote. Indeed, for the first time in 26 years, the electricity grid regulation that has lowered electricity grid prices wanted the Moderates to tear up. I quote Ulf Kristersson in Dagens Industri on 11 June 2019: Thus, if the Moderates had been left to decide, electricity grid prices would have been significantly higher. We had not seen the first reductions in 26 years. If Jan Ericson is seriously involved in the issue of electricity grid prices, he should take a serious discussion with his party leader Ulf Kristersson. My ambition, as I said in my interpellation response, is to seek cooperation in energy policy. We had the order that we had a common energy policy. The Moderates, together with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Green Party, have designed the basics of the energy policy that is still being pursued, although the Moderates and Christian Democrats unfortunately chose to leave it after three years, even though we had a much longer time horizon. Despite this, the government has invited all parties in Parliament to a discussion on future electricity grid regulation. Apart from Lars Helmered's somewhat exaggerated reality description, I essentially share his starting points for discussion. My hope is that we, the Moderates and several other wise parliamentary parties together will be able to discuss us up to what is a good grid regulation for the future. However, I do not want to lock myself in to it being done through an investigation. It may be that the evidence that we have requested from the authorities is sufficient to pass on this issue and that, in that case, it is a much faster and more effective measure than the investigation that the Moderates want. But let's analyse it together when we have the authority base. If that is the case, then there is still a need and a large majority of the parties want such an investigation, I shall not, of course, prevent it. At present, however, I believe that there are faster and more effective ways of achieving our common objectives.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-952	Madam President, I would like When the Minister for Energy is asked, he often gets caught up in arrogantness. Calling a counter-debater a fairy tale is pretty low. He also claims that this has a weak basis in reality. But I just said that the reason for my interpellation is human reality. People are experiencing exactly what I say: that network charges are increasing over time, that the total cost of electricity is increasing and that the share of the network charge in the total cost of electricity is increasing. This makes people feel powerless. You can change electricity supplier but naturally not network companies. This means that you are stuck with your network company and cannot affect the amount of the network charge. Whatever you do, this part becomes more expensive and expensive. This is a real problem, the Minister for Energy. It does not have a weak foundation in reality, but this is the reality of people. In fact, the Minister for Energy has to respect that. As usual, the Minister for Energy deals with a lot of other issues that have nothing to do with this, such as the energy agreement. I leave that with a warm hand to Lars Helmered to face. I know, however, that there were very good reasons why the Moderates left this agreement. Sometimes we may not want to play in the game the government plays, and then we unfortunately have to get off. We have done so on other issues too. I heard that the Minister for Energy had views on how the Moderates have acted and mentioned debate articles by Ulf Kristersson that I haven't even read, so I don't know what he's referring to. That is why I am refraining from responding to it.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-957	Madam President, I would like The previous energy agreement did not contain any elements on electricity grid regulation. It does not deprive us of the responsibility to take that discussion now and forward. I can see that both red and blue governments have not done enough in this. We must curb the natural monopoly and develop electricity grid regulation. We must look at the future challenges, not least with regard to the important electrification of transport with increased needs for both light and heavy vehicles. This is a typical example of an area in which a power grid company must not today be based on speculation and cannot take a position. One can consider whether one can evaluate their role and task in this, not that it should be randomd out money or risked but that they should be able to take a clearer role so that we can push through and not slow down, which may otherwise be the risk, an important electrification of the transport sector. We also have rate of return, priority between different customers who want to be connected and a wide range of other issues. Madam President, I would like All this needs to be investigated. Legislation that is to be decided by the Riksdag cannot be developed on discussions and councils, but must have official assignments, a government inquiry or other forms of investigation. So far, there has been more consultation and not the kind of important investigations needed to produce government legislation. They need to come. In my opinion, government missions are not enough to come up with sufficient proposals to develop network regulation. It could be an investigation or in some other form. The advantage of a government investigation is that it is democratic and transparent. The decision is made on a directive that the whole world can see and relate to. But the most important thing is that the government gets the end out of the wagon, sets up an investigation and brings forward and submits proposals to the Riksdag so that we do not lose the chance to get a new online regulation in place until 1 January 2024.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-962	Madam President, I would like First to Lars Helmered: We seem to agree on most things. We have a slightly different view of the advantages and disadvantages of a government investigation. Transparency and broad political anchoring are the advantages of a government investigation. The big disadvantage is that it takes time. The advantages of government assignments are that they are equally open, that there is a large pool of expertise in our agencies and that it has the potential to go significantly faster. But perhaps a combination of both is needed, and I am happy to have a dialogue with Lars Hjälmered and the Moderates about that so that we can move forward. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry if Jan Ericson shared the notion that I called him a fairy tale. I absolutely didn't. I told him his real-life description led to fairy tales. He further recognised this in his speech. For the sake of fact, let me mention a few facts. Sweden has falling electricity grid prices for the first time in 26 years. The moderate line was that we should continue to raise electricity grid prices, according to the quote I mentioned from today's industry. They wanted to tear up this regulation. We have the lowest electricity prices ever. Swedish electricity prices are one third of Germany's electricity prices. We even have lower electricity prices than Poland. Unless Jan Ericson is too busy writing interpellations, I recommend that he read the moderate statements in newspapers and magazines.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-967	Madam President, I would like You can have different entrances when working politically. Either you can wriggle, start discussing history descriptions and put energy on it. Or you can listen to what problems ordinary people in our society have and how they view it. They're our clients anyway. It is my constituents at home who are my clients, and I listen to them and hear what they think is a problem. They find it a problem to be stuck with a network company that they cannot switch when they see how much of the total cost is network charge. If at the same time we want Swedish households and companies to electrify more by driving electric cars, electrifying industrial processes and so on, politics and parties should work together to ensure that Sweden has a cheap and stable electricity supply and reasonable network charges. It should be superior to everything else. But people don't experience it that way. We will return to the electricity supply in future interpellations. I think that the Minister for Energy should take this on board if he really wants to be a Minister for Energy for Sweden and listen to what the Swedish people actually think.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-971	Madam President, I would like Of course, I listen to what people say and understand, Jan Ericson. But that doesn't make me see the fact that we have a trend break. The Nils Holgersson survey has studied electricity network price development in Sweden for 10 to 15 years, and it notes that last year we had a trend break. Electricity network prices fell for the first time in 26 years. Jan Ericson should be happy about that. Let us work together to ensure that this is not a one-off event but that we can continue to have competitive electricity grid prices and increased investments in the electricity grid. I think that is the best thing for Sweden. I welcome the fact that in future Jan Ericson will listen not only to neighbours and friends, which is probably so important, but also to the moderate party leadership.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-974	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me whether I can guarantee that Sweden will be able to supply its electricity in the winter and not, according to the reserve plans that exist, forced to shut down residential areas or industries according to a prepared schedule because electricity is simply not enough. If the answer is no, Jan Ericson wonders what action I intend to take. It's a bleak picture Jan Ericson is trying to paint. In fact, Sweden has a good starting point for the supply of electricity, also in view of an increased electrification of the industry and transport sector in the future. We have high security of supply. No electric consumers have had to be disconnected due to power shortages. We have historically large electricity surpluses. Sweden's medium-sized and large companies have the lowest retail prices throughout the European Union, and we have very low-carbon electricity production compared to other countries. Only a handful of countries in the world have an electricity supply with as low emissions as Sweden. The Swedish Power Network publishes an annual report with a forecast of the power balance for the coming winter. The latest report points to a more strained situation during the hours at which electricity consumption is highest. Of course there are challenges, especially locally, but Swedish power grid calculations show that the risk of power shortage remains low in Sweden. We are closely following developments for a continued high level of security of supply. As early as 2016, the R EG took the initiative to extend the so-called power reserve to 2025. The power reserve is available during the winter months to ensure that there is electricity output at the peak of demand. The government and the network companies in Malmö and Stockholm also took a joint initiative last autumn to ensure the capacity in Malmö and Stockholm, both in the short and long term. An important issue for security of supply, but also for electrification, is the efficient development and use of electricity networks. Swedish power networks now have a high investment rate and are planning the next ten years to invest approximately SEK 50 billion in the transmission network, of which SEK 17 billion already during the next three years.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-979	Madam President, I would like Last year in July, in the middle of the summer, Sweden was forced to start the oil power plant in Karlshamn to cope with the Swedish electricity supply. It became a wake-up call for everyone, except for the government. We Moderates realized that if on top of this one were to shut down another reactor in Ringhals, the problem of electricity supply would be acute. And last year, the alarms came in a tight current. On 9 July, the Swedish Growth Agency estimated that between 40 000 and 124,000 jobs are threatened in the southern part of the country as a result of the lack of electricity. On October 21st, SVT News reported that investments in heavy industry in the north require more electricity than Luleälven produces. It is about large server halls, hydrogen production, the investment in the Hybrid project for carbon-free steel production, electricity-intensive carbon storage in electricity-intensive battery production and so on, which meant that the entire current surplus in the northern part of the country was cut. There was then no excess electricity left to send south. Madam President, I would like Investments in large electricity-dependent plants do not only take place in northern Sweden. Today, the Municipality of Trollhättan announced in a press release that it had signed a land allocation agreement with the German SAP for the construction of a data centre in Stallbacka industrial area. It is an extremely important initiative for Trollhättan, but it will require the supply of a great deal of electricity. During the autumn there has been a surge of alarms from affected companies. The Swedish director of Kemira calls the Ministry of Energy's speech on national surplus for gibberish. The CEO of Boreali talks about concerns about an emergency situation in the electricity market. Ikem's head of public affairs calls the situation extremely serious. Trioplast sees increased risks for electricity supply in the future. The furniture company Spaljisten is threatening with new major investments abroad due to a threat of electricity shortage. The CEO of the profile group says that it can be more advantageous to have production in another EU country because of the problem of electricity supply. This is how you can go on. The problems of threatening electricity shortages and of getting a desired electricity connection are among both small and large companies, and we are constantly receiving new reports on this. So this was already the case before the shutdown of the latest Ringhals reactor. Later in the autumn, business organisations such as the South Swedish Chamber of Industry and Commerce have appealed to the government to stop the shutdown of the latest Ringhals reactor. The same line persisted in the Industry Committee, but without results, and at the turn of the year another Ringhals reactor was shut down prematurely, a reactor in good condition that with small investments could have been run longer and produce cheap and clean electricity. One partner wanted to run the work further, but the majority owner – state-owned Vattenfall – said no to any such proposal. As you know, Vattenfall is governed by government ownership directives, and in other words, it was in practice a purely political decision to shut down Ringhals 1 and 2. A week later we were told that Sweden was already forced to import coal power from Poland on Friday 8 January. It was the energy expert of the Nature Conservation Society who alerted the matter, and she was absolutely right. Instead of Sweden continuing to export zero-emission nuclear electricity, we were forced to import electricity from coal power. At the same time, electricity prices in southern Sweden are rising to the highest in five years. The day before yesterday, Svenska Kraftnät alarmed about a very strained situation. It was noted that the margins of the Swedish power supply have undoubtedly decreased significantly in recent years due to the closure of planned electricity generation as four nuclear reactors have been permanently decommissioned in recent years. In the interview, the manager noted that the risk is not non-existent for manual disconnection of parts of the electricity system this winter in order to avoid total national disruptions, as Pakistan recently suffered. The mere fact that Sweden is mentioned in the same sense as Pakistan in terms of security of electricity supply should make the Minister for Energy think about what the government is doing.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-987	Madam President, I would like Companies and households in Sweden should be able to count on safe access to electricity and energy, and very often it works in an excellent way. Historically, it has worked very well in Sweden, with high security of supply, low environmental impact and reasonable prices. However, I think we see that this is being tested a little more slowly in Sweden. We have had three electricity crises within just over a year, first in Stockholm and Skåne and then in southern Sweden, showing that we cannot take the security of electricity supply, which has been a great competitive advantage, for granted without the need for political leadership and clear reforms to ensure security for households and companies. I think it was right for the government to set up the crisis packages for Stockholm and Skåne, because we cannot accept the alternative: that there can be no reasonable expansion of public transport and hospitals and that companies do not get electricity for expansion and such things, which was the threat before the crisis packages came into place. Then it happened that, together with other parties, we gathered a majority in the Riksdag and forced the crisis packages to be evaluated, because I think this is an important part of any future electricity crises in Sweden. If that should happen, which of course we do not hope, we should know in Sweden that we are doing the right things. We should not believe, we should not hope and we should not go directly and make a copy of what Stockholmers and actors did in the hope that it is right, but actually look at the detailed measures with the flexibility market, the halt of electricity exports, as it was about in Skåne, and a number of other measures to see if it was cost-effective, if the authorities in Sweden had reasonable decision-making power, if the government and the minister did their job or if there are lessons we can learn in selected parts of this so that we stand ready if or when a crisis can come at a future time. Now we can also see that Swedish power networks have indicated that the margins in the Swedish electricity and energy system are decreasing. We still have surpluses on a weekly, monthly and annual basis, but it is regional and occasionally tight in the Swedish electricity and energy system. So it is not just the Moderates who say this. For example, the company Boreali, on my own west coast, has expressed itself as follows: The development of huge price fluctuations and the risk of mere shortages is untenable for us and others in industry, which depend entirely on the security of electricity supply and internationally competitive prices. I think, Madam President, that Boreali, in the quote from Today's industry, sums it up very well when they point to what we are risking in the future. Then we had at the latest at the end of the year the closure of Ringhals 1. An already strained situation, which among other things Swedish power networks point to, becomes more strained after a large power plant in southern Sweden closes. There, the government had the opportunity as owner and responsible for Vattenfall to act, to take a discussion and to look unconditionally at a continued operation for the climate, for the economy and for the stability of the system. They didn't. We had a vote in Parliament where the Minister's party, the Social Democrats, chose to vote to close the Ringhal reactor 1 and not act to keep it. Neither the Social Democrats here in Parliament nor the government have pointed out any alternative. What happens if an electric crisis occurs? Ringneck 1 was used this summer. What would be the alternative if this were to happen now in winter or in the future next summer? My question to the Minister for Energy is: What does his and the government's alternative to Ringhals 1 look like to deal with a possible electricity crisis if it should happen now in winter, next summer or in the future?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-996	Madam President, I would like The Government makes its habit faithful to a description that there is no shortage of electricity. Access to electricity in Sweden is good. And in its response, the Government states that our country was a net exporter in 2019. This in no way responds to the question of what is happening here and now if there is a power cut. Then the government's recurring mantra won't help. The problem is that Sweden is vulnerable and that it becomes irrelevant how it looks a number of days a year. We can't store electricity. Electricity is consumed at the moment it is produced. This requires that there is sufficient power and transmission capacity at any given moment. If that doesn't happen, there'll be a blackout. It occurs there and then, and it takes no account of what it has looked like before. That is what we are talking about when the Government tells us about the export of electricity. It's actually going to be pretty stupid. In today's industry on 8 December, a number of companies express their views on the state of business due to growing problems in the electricity market with security of supply and price fluctuations. Representatives of the company Kemi ra say: As Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman talking about the fact that we have national electricity surpluses on an annual basis is political gibberish and one way to turn a blind eye to the large and rapidly growing problems we have with security of supply and price fluctuations. Madam President, I would like For a long time, Scanian companies, municipalities and transporters have warned against the consequences of the lack of electricity capacity. The ferry service in Ystad received signals that the electricity supplier could not supply electricity and that the ferry service would not use electricity in the morning hours. It was supposed to turn the council off. The situation was described as that people cannot start the coffee maker in the morning before going to work while the ships are to be loaded. This indicates a fragile system, and it is going on at the same time as it is fragile when we make a switch to the very use of electricity. And it's affecting. Ferry traffic's response to the electricity supplier in Ystad was: Yes, we can shut down the electricity. But then we have to use other fuels. We can't and can't if you don't sign papers for us. Otherwise, we'll be in the legal system. The Government has listened to the Chamber of Industry and Commerce in South Sweden. We have on various occasions mentioned the company Polychemistry in Ystad and that they cannot run with full capacity as they would like and can, and then we have not talked about the pandemic. They're allowed to run in shifts with the machines to make the power supply work. This means that it is a company in our country that cannot run at full capacity. This means that there is no revenue and no jobs. What does that mean for the country as a whole? How many Polychemistry do we have in our country that cannot reach full reach and thus do not generate the income to the country that we need and all the jobs that we also need? Madam President, I would like Skåne does not have the necessary preparedness to cope with a major power outage. It shows a new report. As a result, the whole system is in danger of being knocked out in the event of a disturbance. Skånska companies risk large production losses and loss of revenue, and important sectors of society risk losing their ability to run their businesses.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1006	Madam President, I would like Let me start from the beginning. I have, like Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, met both Sydsvenska Industri- och Handelskrumen and the network owner, who has both connection obligations and is responsible for the networks in Skåne. This meeting revealed, as the network owner has also said in the media, that there is no known connection that they cannot connect to the network due to power shortages in Skåne. That is why we can leave this claim. However, there may be other reasons. You might think the price is too high. There may also be geographical problems or other things. But there is no one who cannot be connected due to power shortages in Skåne, says the network owner, and it is the network owner who is responsible. Neither I nor AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson are the net owners in Skåne. We have the lowest electricity prices ever. We have that because we have the biggest electricity surpluses ever. It is not like Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says that it is a year that we have had a net surplus. We have had net surpluses and exported electricity every year since 2011. So we are in the tenth year in a row of net exports of electricity. And we've never exported as much electricity as in 2019, I think. Let's see. By 2020 it may have been a little lower than 2019. The last numbers haven't come in yet. It could be a little lower. But it is at least in parity with this. So for the last two years we have exported more electricity than ever before. Jan Ericson throws a series of claims out of his habit, many of which are false or half-true. For example, the Karlshamnsverket was not started this summer due to any power k rice – we had large surpluses of electricity, and we had record low electricity prices this summer – but it was just started because nuclear power was not profitable on the market. It was then decided to cut back on nuclear power production. That is why we needed the support services that nuclear power otherwise stands for on the market – rotational energy, frequency stability, etc. This, together with the periodic maintenance of nuclear power, was the reason for this. This is also the reason why I have commissioned Swedish power networks to develop more such support services markets. As far as I understand it, it is a policy that the Moderates support and welcome for electricity consumers to have as cheap and stable electricity as possible. Then, however, I have a question for the moderate debaters who are so much concerned about nuclear power. I welcome that. Nuclear power is a large part of Swedish energy supply and will be so for many years to come. But why do you only care about nuclear power? Why do you not ask questions about the tens or tens of wind turbines that have been closed in recent years, or about the combined heat and power plants that have been shut down? Why don't you worry about the impact on the power supply? Why is there only one force and not more on the moderate energy map? Finally, I would just like to make one small point. We can store electricity. It is one of Sweden's great assets. We have water storage facilities that store huge energy resources. We can store electricity in hydrogen, which Hybrid is now doing. It is a great industrial project in northern Sweden. We can also store electricity in one of the nearly 100 000 electric cars in Sweden.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1013	Madam President, I would like I can only say that the Minister for Energy does the same as a number of other ministers in the government and blames all the problems on others and tries to talk away the problems that actually exist. But the fact is that for more than 50 years Sweden has had a safe, cheap and stable energy supply, basically without environmentally harmful emissions. Our hydropower and nuclear power have produced electricity at a low cost and secured the supply of electricity for both industry and households. Today, many countries are moving away from coal and oil power stations and are investing in cleaner electricity production. The share of electricity from environmentally harmful energy sources is decreasing in most countries in Europe – for example, coal power is being shut down – but not in Sweden. Here we go instead the other way. We are forced to import coal-fired electricity from Poland, and whatever the Minister for Energy blames it is a fact that we have both started oil-fired power plants and have gas-fired power plants ready as backup power. At the same time, electricity is becoming more expensive and the supply of electricity is more uncertain. Large and electricity-intensive customers are actually worried, but the minister in charge talks it away and says that there are no problems. There are apparently no problems in Skåne at all, despite the fact that both the companies and the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce constantly warns that there are problems in Skåne. How can the government cause so much in such a short time and, moreover, completely deny that the problems exist? In his reply, the Minister for Energy repeats this matter of historically large electricity surpluses, and now we are several who have found that the head of Sweden at Kemira actually calls it gibberish. It does not help if we have electricity surpluses on an annual or monthly basis; electricity must be there all the time, every day and every minute. The annual figures are, in fact, uninteresting for those affected by electricity shortages on a specific occasion. Then we can discuss whether electricity exports are profitable. We export electricity when everyone else also has surplus. This summer there was information in the media that we were barely paid at all for the surplus – it was down to perhaps a little øre per kilowatt-hour – because there was simply no demand for electricity. It was the middle of summer, wind power went full and no one wanted to buy the electricity. But when we then need to import electricity it is usually cold, and then the demand for electricity is great. It is when wind power is stationary, and then often all our neighbours have the same problem. It'll cost you. Then there's a shortage of electricity, and then we'll have to pay a lot. This is to export lots of electricity for coffee money and pay dearly for imports, we usually call Ebberöd's bank, and I don't know if that's anything to brag about. In fact, I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look at this: How much do we actually make by exporting electricity? I'm not sure there's as much as some people think. Very well! I repeat my first question, which I put in my interpellation. In fact, it is very straight: can the Minister of Energy guarantee that Sweden will be able to supply its electricity in the winter and not, according to the reserve plans that exist, be forced to shut down the electricity supply for residential areas, whole towns or industries because electricity is simply not enough? I would really just like a straight and clear answer to that: yes or no.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1021	Madam President, I would like We are now having a debate on the supply of electricity this winter. It is about the security of households and businesses. Although we have large surpluses on a full-year basis in Sweden, it is a more strained situation, as the Swedish power grid, among other things, points out. It has been referred by the Minister for Energy to a meeting in southern Sweden between the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce, the network company Eon and the Minister for Energy. Following an earlier debate in the Riksdag, a letter has been sent to the Government Office and the Riksdag, in which the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce notes that the Minister's views are not shared. Instead, it is claimed that there are customers in Skåne who have not received electricity to the extent they wish. So there are different views there. The Minister for Energy also says that we have historically low electricity prices, and that is quite right in the spot market. For Swedish companies, however, it is the total electricity cost that is relevant, i.e. what you pay including energy tax, VAT, emission allowances and the entire ballet. It is also a question of having security and not excessive price fluctuations. While we are having this debate, there has been a flash from today's industry. It is noted that prices are now rushing in Sweden – now comes the Russian cold. This could be a Swedish winter. What is also stated in today's industry is that we have a lack of transmission capacity. In order to be able to transfer electricity from northern Sweden to southern Sweden, you need to have something that electricians call reactive power, and that is what they have in Ringhals Reactor 1 and in other major power producers in southern Sweden. This means that the transmission capacity will be reduced if this type of plant is closed, and then the situation for customers in southern Sweden will be even more vulnerable. We have the situation that the Social Democrats in Parliament voted to close Ringhal's Unit 1 without them or the Minister having an alternative. My question is therefore once again, Madam President: what does Anders Ygeman's alternative to Ringhals 1 look like when it comes to dealing with a possible future electricity crisis in southern Sweden – this winter, this summer or later?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1026	Madam President, I would like The situation is shaky. Lars Helmered has reported Ringhals 1 here. The Government says that the companies have not notified and have not been able to start. But you can contact your county board. In any case, the County Administrative Board writes this: Only in the last few weeks has new information come that the answer to concrete requests for investments in Skåne is that the capacity for connection is missing and that it can be handled at the earliest in two three years. Industrial companies warn that they may be forced to move their production due to uncertainty, if they have not already done so. Madam President, I would like South Sweden, Skåne, has ferries that go on electricity – at least when it works. They're devouring power. The ferries between Helsingborg and Helsingör devour an entire Rydebäck, which is a community of approximately 7,000 people. Companies signal that they cannot expand; the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce has signalled this. We have listed companies such as Pågen, Lindab, Polychemistry and others, who have contacted us along the way. Municipalities signal that housing cannot be built. We have a large cluster of ESS, the MAX IV laboratory and other things in Lund. The whole region needs electricity use during conversion. People are going to work. Charging poles shall be in place and electric cars shall be used. I would like to ask the Government whether he can guarantee that Sweden will be able to supply its electricity in winter, throughout the country, and what it will look like in the future. This also includes security regarding electricity in Skåne and South Sweden.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1030	Madam President, I would like As I have noted in my interpellation response, Sweden has as good or better preparedness for security of supply when it comes to electricity compared to our neighbouring countries. As far as the debate on Skåne is concerned, let us just get this settled: you do not have to listen or trust me! It is not I who stands for connection of electricity grid customers in Skåne, but it is the network owner who does. On 18 September this year, Eon, the network owner, guaranteed that there is sufficient power for all customers in Skåne. If you have a different opinion from the online owner, you will probably have to do something better than what you have managed to achieve in this debate. I can only say that the network owner says that all known and future known requirements for connections can be met. This does not mean that you can get electricity in a second, a minute or even a week, because it can sometimes take time to build electricity lines. I think that that time should be shortened, and I hope to find agreement on proposals to shorten it. But the effect is not a problem when it comes to connecting electricity customers in Skåne, according to the network owner. Jan Ericson talks about electricity exports and has written a question to Parliament's investigation service. However, that does not prevent him from coming to his own conclusions about what he believes. I look forward to seeing the results of Jan Ericson's mission to the investigation service. I will also ask Jan Ericson to take a closer look at import and export statistics. Then he will see that some of the electricity we import from Poland and which he is evil about, we are exporting on to the nuclear nation of Finland, which has a great need to import electricity. So it is not used in Sweden. I can also welcome Jan Ericson's reduction in CO2 emissions from energy production in Sweden, contrary to what he seems to believe. We're stomping out fossil energy sources. Of course we have reserve power, and there is a small, small part of the reserve power – Karlshamnsverket – still based on fossil sources. Of course we'll stamp that out. The others we have replaced with bioenergy, without carbon dioxide emissions. If I understood Lars Helmered correctly, the Moderates have welcomed that exchange. I hope that this part of Moderate energy policy can also reach Jan Ericson. In recent years, after the Moderates, the Social Democrats and others concluded the Energy Agreement, Swedish industry has invested in the order of SEK 80 billion in new energy production. The energy deal made investments in nuclear energy possible. How much of Swedish industry's energy investments have taken place in this energy source, which is so much cherished by the Moderates? I think Jan Ericson should think about that. It is actually possible to invest in nuclear power in Sweden, both in new nuclear power plants and in existing plants. But despite the fact that the economic operating conditions for Swedish nuclear power have never been better after the nuclear power was built, there is no willingness to invest in Swedish nuclear power. This is not because nuclear power is poor, but because the production costs of the other types of energy have fallen so that it is possible to get cheaper electricity for Swedish consumers by investing in other types of energy.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1036	Madam President, I would like Now we are three Members who have been standing in this speaker's chair for perhaps half an hour telling us about problems that exist around Sweden and about companies that see problems with electricity supply, but the Minister for Energy is waving it all away and saying that there are no problems. Everything's great. We're the ones making this up, and Anders Ygeman is right. Madam President, I would like Anders Ygeman says that he is not a net owner and that he therefore does not have to care. No, he's not, but Anders Ygeman is Minister of Energy. If there are problems with the energy supply in Sweden, surely the Minister for Energy should care and not hide behind a network owner in Skåne who says something that also seems very unclear because there are conflicting data on the matter, as Lars Helmered told us just now? The Minister for Energy is shaking his head, but this is about a letter that has been sent to the Government Office. I note that words stand against words; we shall see what is right on this issue. The Minister for Energy says that there is no ban on investing in nuclear power in Sweden. No, of course there is no ban, but there must be some reason that Vattenfall chose to shut down a nuclear reactor in Sweden that the other partner in the same nuclear power plant wanted to operate further. There must also be a reason why Vattenfall last week met a letter of intent with Estonia to build mini-nuclear power plants in Estonia while closing reactors in Sweden. There must be something that separates these countries and makes it profitable to invest in nuclear power in Estonia but unprofitable to do so in Sweden. I didn't get a real answer from the Minister for Energy. He hopes that everything will go well this winter, but some explicit guarantee that there will be no shutdown of the electricity grid I unfortunately did not get. I draw my conclusions from that.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1040	Madam President, I would like I can actually let Jan Ericson's various speeches speak for themselves, but I have two small comments. Firstly, I have understood Vattenfall's CEO so that she plans for small-scale nuclear power plants even for the Swedish market if it should be profitable, so this is not due to differences between Sweden and Estonia. After all, it remains to be seen whether this technology has the potential to become profitable on the market. As I understand it, Vattenfall's letter of intent regarding Estonia is not about building reactors, but I can be misinformed there. Secondly, words do not stand against words. Jan Ericson has a cell phone, if not in his hand, at least in his jacket pocket. It's just googling, then he can read what the online owner himself writes. Then he won't have to listen to my words or anyone else's. Eon says what I say; I quote Eon. They're net owners. They can supply electricity, end of story. Then there are other discussions between me and the S Sydsvenska H Chamber about what network areas and other things look like. You can write me a letter about this, and I will be happy to meet – once again – S Sydsvenska H's chamber of shareholders and the Scanian companies. I have had two such meetings since I became Minister of Energy, and I look forward to continuing the dialogue with the Scanian business community. My hope is that it will be able to grow and develop in Sweden. In fact, here I'm going to give Jan Ericson a point, even if he didn't say so. It is much better that we import labour into Sweden with the help of stable Swedish energy supply and low energy prices than that we export electricity to other countries. Therefore, we can be proud of Northvolt, Hybrid and other such projects, which have been made possible by cheap Swedish electricity.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1046	Madam President, I would like There are so many interpellations today that I was about to produce the answer to the previous interpellation. Maybe it would upset Jan Ericson if I had read the same interpellation answer twice. Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me how I intend to secure the supply of electricity and thereby secure the continued investment in electric cars. First of all, I can say that there is no shortage of electricity but that there is good access to electricity in Sweden. In 2019 Sweden exported a record amount of electricity, and even in 2020 net exports have been very large. Nor have any electric consumers had to be disconnected due to power shortages in Sweden. Sweden has today and with continued investments in the electricity grid clearly the ability to quickly electrify the vehicle fleet. However, challenges may arise at local and regional level when networks are heavily burdened, such as Jan Ericson. We have seen this in Skåne and Stockholm. The government and the network companies in Malmö and Stockholm therefore took a joint initiative last autumn to ensure capacity in both the short and long term. Electricity networks should be developed and used efficiently in line with the increased electrification. The business's vengeful power grid is now increasing investments strongly. The next three-year period is planned to invest SEK 17 billion, compared with SEK 7 billion in the last three years. In addition, four county boards and the Swedish Energy Market Authority have reported government assignments on local network capacity shortages, and their proposals are now being analysed. The government has also initiated an electricity network dialogue. These are some important measures. Recently, we started work on the national electrification strategy. The strategy will help create the conditions for a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification, not only of the transport sector but also of industry and society at large. In a similar vein, the government has also set up an electrification commission to speed up the electrification of heavy road transport and the transport sector as a whole. Electricity supply will be an important issue to take into account both in the electrification strategy and in the Commission's work. We also need to ensure that the roll-out of charging infrastructure takes place at such a pace that it does not become an obstacle to electrification of the transport sector. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government proposes that the Climate Region, which provides investment support for charging infrastructure, be strengthened and extended. In addition, the Government proposes a grant of more than SEK billion for the period 2021 – 2022 for infrastructure to electrify heavy regional transport. There is also existing aid aimed at ensuring access to charging infrastructure for the rapid charging of electric vehicles along major roads throughout the country. These aids include network reinforcement where necessary.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1053	Madam President, I would like In our last debate, I pointed out how bad development has been, how we had to start oil power plants as reserve power already last summer and how we were forced to import coal power from Poland the other week. That then, as the Minister for Energy said, we pass it on to Finland may have happened, but if we had not had to import it from Poland, we could have sent our pure power from Ringhals to Finland instead. That would have been much better. I pointed out that the Swedish Agency for Growth estimated that between 40 000 and 124 000 jobs were threatened in the southern part of the country as a result of a lack of electricity supply. In the previous debates, I have also reminded you of the major investment in huge industrial projects in the northern part of the country, which together means that the entire surplus we have in the northern part of the country can go towards this. Then there's no excess electricity to send south. I listed a number of troubled companies that are experiencing their business or expansion threatened by uncertain electricity supply. I noted that only a week ago we felt that we were forced to import energy from Poland. I mentioned the alarm from the Swedish power grid which denotes it as a not non-existent risk of Sweden being forced to turn off parts of the electricity customers in order not to risk the whole national electricity grid suffering such a disruption as Pakistan recently suffered. All of this, which I have listed, applies today, with today's electricity demand and with today's known energy efforts. At the same time, the government is strongly in favour of increased electrification. We're going to buy electric cars and we're going to use electricity in important industrial processes. As I mentioned in a previous debate, energy companies themselves say that they expect a quadruple of electricity consumption in Sweden by 2050. In his reply, the Minister for Energy talks about the government's efforts to expand the charging infrastructure. That is positive and something that we from the Moderates also have in our budget. We even invest more in this than the government does. But unlike the government, we have also tried to work to ensure that there will be some electricity to send in these lines. That's the part the government missed. Unfortunately, the Minister for Energy, there is no point in expanding the main grids and charging infrastructure if there is not enough electricity to send in the pipelines. Where's the electricity coming from? That is my first question to the Minister for Energy. Where will the electricity come from if we need four times as much electricity by 2050? It links a little to Lars Hjälmered's question: What is it that we should have instead of nuclear power that is able to supply the same amount of electricity in an equally stable way all the time? Madam President, I would like I give the Minister for Energy the chance to answer the question he did not answer last time because it is also linked to this interpellation. It's about the guarantee. Can the Minister of Energy guarantee that we will not have power cuts this winter and that those who invest in buying an electric car today know that they actually have electricity in the socket so that they can charge their electric car during the night?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1061	Madam President, I would like We have ahead of us a fantastic possible development with more electrified vehicles. It will, of course, impose demands on our electricity and energy system. When I have contact with the manufacturers at home in Gothenburg, Volvo Cars and AB Volvo, the clear message from there is that the development with electrification and charging hybrids is going at a furious speed. It is now much faster than in all their previous forecasts. This, of course, offers great opportunities, because it means that you can secure jobs at home in Gothenburg and continue to develop the important automotive industry. Of course, the transition from fossil energy to electrification can have great climate benefits for Sweden and for the world, but it will also impose requirements on our electricity and energy system. I won't say that it's like putting a man on the moon, but if you get 100 new electric buses here in Stockholm that will be charged, there will be a lot of power at the same time. At a residential street where there is not 1 or 2 but perhaps 10, 20, 30 or 40 electric cars, we need to manage this with control technology so that we do not misuse our electricity and energy system. This must then be changed and developed. Then we also really need to boost and speed up electrification. I think it is a wise initiative from the government with an electrification commission looking at this with the whole automotive sector, charging hybrids and other things and addressing some of those problems. But I am also concerned, Madam President, about what Anders Ygeman and colleagues are doing with regard to some of the instruments relating to electrification. In fact, the government is proposing to increase – not lower – the tax on electric cars, and that is quite strongly. For most people who see this kind of debate, it seems quite preposterous. Of the vehicles sold in Sweden, two out of three cars are sold to one legal person. So you have it as a preferential car, a company car, or you buy a car by private leasing. As much as three out of four cars sold in Sweden that are electric cars or charging hybrids are sold to legal persons. This means that private leasing and the corporate market are crucial for how things are going in Torslanda and car manufacturing there, but also for car sales in general and, I will say, Sweden's ability to reach the climate targets by 2030 in the long term. There is a broad consensus in the policy that we should safeguard mobility but also reduce emissions. There is talk of a 70% reduction by 2030. Those who are experts in the energy industry and are working on this particular point note that if you do the rocking that the government is now proposing when it comes to preferential cars and the strong tax increase on electric vehicles, we will be further away from Sweden being able to reach its climate targets in the field of transport. Madam President, I would like My question to Anders Ygeman is why he and the government choose to move forward with a sharp tax increase on the sale of electric cars in Sweden.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1070	Madam President, I would like Of course there are challenges, especially locally, the Government said to Jan Ericson. That is indeed the case. That's the reality. Everyday life is going on out there in the country where the business community depends on electricity production along with the construction of municipalities, regional and local transport systems, charging poles and household use. Lack of security of electricity supply and capacity. It is good that the government is following developments and that the Swedish power grid has a high investment rate and plans to invest the next ten years. But that does not answer the question at present: What will happen in the event of a blackout? Is it the signal to be sent across the country that you have to expect that electricity can disappear from time to time with large cost losses for companies around the country? The company Trioplast made a statement on 18 November. We see an increased risk that the supply of electricity will in future be less efficient. It would be absolutely devastating because we run our plants around the clock, all year round and are completely dependent on the electricity functioning, they said. This is a company that spends billions and employs many people. Businesses, business and the country need answers. There is a social transition under which Ringhals 1 was now closed at the turn of the year. It's a decision for which the government has to take responsibility. The government and the government say that the closure of Ringhals was not on the government table. But yes, it is when you choose a policy that makes it cheaper with different types of power than those that nuclear power has to pay for with taxes. Vattenfall has therefore had no way forward but has chosen to close down. The government could have come to Parliament with a decision to extend the period for Ringhals 1. I would like to receive an answer from the Government to whether the Government was considering at all a decision that would have given Vattenfall the opportunity to drive Ringhals 1 further up to 2036 or whether you are hoping that the population will not understand the link between increased costs on certain types of energy and cuts on others? I cannot and will never understand that the government really allowed this to happen, and not under the circumstances of the country here and now. There are things that make me sad, and the closure of Ringhals is one of them. Madam President, I would like The other day, regional representatives of the Moderates and Liberals in Skåne wrote that the government's policy has left deep traces in Skåne's electricity supply. On Friday, electricity prices reached new record levels. What had happened? Well, it got colder weather and the wind production was small. How, then, is electricity production solved? The answer is that we import electricity, this time from Poland – it is dirty electricity because it comes from coal power – to avoid power outages. Suppose that we are not ourselves about this situation, but that it is the same in our neighbouring countries. Then we'll stand there, and the cranes will be strangled to the country. What do we do in the event of a blackout, Anders Ygeman?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1080	I would like to remind you that this interpellation is about electricity supply and electric cars.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1081	Madam President, I would like With respect, however, I would like to mention that the decision to close Ringhals was taken by Vattenfall in 2015. It was a year before the Moderates, the Social Democrats and several parties settled on the long-term energy policy in Sweden. It provided the best economic conditions for running nuclear power since it was put into operation in that country. Since then, we have also decided to abolish the so-called green certificates and have therefore abolished much of the subsidies for renewable power. It is therefore quite the opposite of what Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson expresses, that nuclear power has become more expensive and the others cheaper. It's just the opposite. We have had electricity surpluses in Sweden since 2011. You take a little too much for your forehead when you listen to parts of the moderate arguments in the debate. In the previous debate it was pointless that we had electricity surpluses in Sweden because we had no cables and no transmission. Now Jan Ericson says that it is pointless to build for new cables because we have no electricity. You make up your mind, Jan Ericson. Which foot are you gonna stand on? We have the largest electricity surpluses ever in Sweden. And we have the biggest new investment in transmission networks for a very long time. This will enable all those who now choose to buy an electric car, which I welcome, to have good access to electricity and be able to charge their car at home, at work and along our roads. Lars Helmered! I didn't quite understand what was the main point of your post. Maybe I didn't listen. But was the problem that we had too many electric cars and that it would be difficult to charge them, or was the problem that we would get too few electric cars because, in your opinion, the government distorted the conditions and made it harder to buy an electric car? You have to decide what is the main problem: too few electric cars or too many electric cars. I'm looking forward to Lars Helmered working out what's the biggest problem so we can discuss it. Sweden is the country in the European Union where the most electric cars are sold. The largest share of electric cars throughout the European Union is sold in Sweden. The background is, of course, that an electric car has a low variable cost. You get a mobility cost of maybe 2 or 3 SEK per mile. The background to this is that Sweden has Europe's lowest electricity prices and that the electric car is energy efficient. Swedish electricity consumers pay an average of one third of what German consumers pay. It is a competitive advantage that we must safeguard. As some of the moderate debaters here today noted, the government is taking a large number of measures to facilitate both infrastructure charging and roll-out. I hope that, like what we discussed in a previous debate, we will be able to agree on further efforts to strengthen the electricity grids, increase electricity grid investments and make the electric car an even more competitive alternative for Sweden's new car buyers.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1089	Madam President, I would like I would just like to inform the President that the interpellation is actually about both the supply of electricity and the investment in electric cars. It's connected. I think we need to be able to talk a little wider about these issues. The Minister for Energy says that more electric cars are sold in Sweden than in any other country in the EU. That's great and very positive, isn't it? However, if this development is to continue, it is important that there is cheap and safe electricity in the future. Now we're living pretty dangerously. This confirms Swedish power grid. They say it's a lot of effort. The Minister for Energy boasts a little bit that we had a lot of electricity exports in 2019 and 2020. It was mainly before the lockdown of both Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2. The situation is different today. The Minister for Energy laughs; but Ringhals 2 was closed in mid-2020, and Ringhals 1 was closed now at the turn of the year. Exports in 2019 and 2020 were thus partly due to nuclear power. As far as Vattenfall's decision is concerned, it goes without saying. Vattenfall was one of the owners. There was also another owner, who wanted to push Ringhals 1 further, but Vattenfall said no. It thus came from a state-owned company, which complies with the government's ownership directives, which are taken politically. The closure of Ringhals 1 was a political decision. Everyone knows that. I got a question from the Minister for Energy about this thing with cables and electricity. It was a little confusing. Nevertheless, he must agree that it is quite pointless to set up charging poles for electric cars without having any electricity to send in the wiring. It is just as pointless to strengthen the core network from northern Sweden if the entire surplus in northern Sweden has already been used for industrial establishments there. Then you have to have electricity also in southern Sweden. Otherwise, we will not be able to get households and others to invest more in electric cars. And we will not be able to cope with industrial efforts where more electricity is needed. Otherwise, the Moderates invest more than the government in charging infrastructure. It's really positive. But we also have a strategy for what to put in those lines. The government doesn't. That's what worries me.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1096	Madam President, I would like Minister for Energy Anders Ygeman did not understand my question and said: What is the problem? Let me be clear. The problem is that Anders Ygeman and his colleagues propose a substantial increase in taxes for those who buy an electric car. That's the big problem. We have a fantastic opportunity ahead of us with a transition to a powerful electrification with electric cars and charging hybrids. New jobs can be secured, for example in Gothenburg, with continued vehicle development. And we can take important steps to meet our climate targets and reduce emissions from the transport sector. Madam President, I would like In this situation, the government proposes to significantly increase the tax rate for the purchaser of electric vehicles. The Government's proposal even means that for a person who has a preferential car in the future it should not be an economic advantage to choose a charging hybrid or an electric car compared to a petrol or diesel car. For me, it is completely incomprehensible how you can land there. For me it is obvious that it should be visible in my wallet if you choose an electric car or a charging hybrid in front of a fossil-fuelled petrol or diesel car. There are, of course, several other challenges in this. We need to secure local electricity generation. The government must set up an electricity network investigation so that we can develop that regulation and secure the functioning of the networks. Regional initiatives must be taken, for example to coordinate and sync the charging of heavy and light vehicles in the future – control and control technologies. Madam President, I would like In this debate, however, the question boils down to why Anders Ygeman and his colleagues choose to significantly raise the tax to buy an electric car in Sweden when society and the sector generally talk about the importance of electrification and the opportunities ahead?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1101	Madam President, I would like The theme of my previous post was the supply of electricity. It is connected with the companies, our households, those who are going to buy electric cars, that we are going to expand the transport systems, that the ferries are going to work and so on. All this becomes a big whole, in a situation where we have a shaky system. At the same time, we are increasing our use of electricity to switch to the new system. It is in this context that we should see this, Madam President. I would like to conclude by asking the Government whether we will be able to cope with the electricity switchover, given that there may be power cuts. I would also like to ask about nuclear power and Ringhals 1, which has now closed and which we have debated in a number of speeches. When it comes to the decision taken earlier, does the Government mean that he or his government representatives could not have taken a turn in a situation where one sees a power disappearing, a base force, which Ringhals 1 was associated with hydropower? Would the Government not have been able to come forward with a proposal to Parliament so that we could have made a new decision? Is that the government's answer?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1104	Madam President, I would like Let me start with Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's question. Sweden has an open energy market where each player independently makes decisions on which power types they want to invest in or not. This is also done on a market-based basis for state-owned or part-owned companies. We have no plans as owners to review their decision. I don't share Lars Helmered's description. Buying an electric car remains highly profitable. Contrary to the description expressed by Lars Hjälmered, the maximum bonus for the purchase of an electric car was raised from SEK 60 000 to SEK 70 000. I am convinced that more and more consumers will choose to buy an electric car. Jan Ericson continues his walk in land of doubtful facts. I can inform you that Ringhals 2 was closed at nine o'clock on 30 December 2019, which means that Ringhals 2's contribution to the Swedish electricity surplus by 2020 was probably severely limited.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1107	Madam President, I would like Yes, that is quite correct. I had the wrong date when it came to Ringhals 2. However, Ringhals 1 still contributed to the electricity surplus both in 2019 and 2020 and Ringhals 2 contributed one year. By 2021 none of them are operational, and then you can think about what we should have instead. This question has been asked several times by Lars Hjälmered, me and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, but we have not received an answer. We simply do not know what long-term thinking the government has on how to cope with the electricity supply in Sweden. I find it remarkable. We have now had three interpellation debates on electricity and electricity supply. Not in any of the debates has the Minister for Energy answered the clearest and clearest question: How will Sweden cope with its long-term electricity supply? Maybe we can get an answer in the closing speech. Otherwise, I have to draw a parallel as far as Vattenfall's decision is concerned. We had a very infected discussion when Vattenfall bought Nuon. The Social Democrats were very clear that it was about the government's political decisions; it was not Vattenfall's board that took the decision. When it comes to the closure of nuclear power, the government is suddenly without any influence. Only Vattenfall has made this decision and made it for purely economic reasons. The fact that the Government governs Vattenfall's operations with ownership directives is clearly of no importance today. I note that the government is decommissioning nuclear power and replacing it with coal power and relying on back-up power from oil and gas. There is an increase in the taxation of electric cars, which goes directly against the goal of getting more electric cars. It ignores companies that are concerned about the supply of electricity. The Government's Minister for Energy does not even guarantee that Swedish electricity consumers will not suffer from a shortage of electricity this winter. This is a summary of the debate, and it is not particularly flattering for the Minister for Energy.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1112	Madam President, I would like You might have to have a little smile on your face over the fact that Jan Ericson admits that he is completely wrong in substance but still comes to the same conclusion. It's perhaps most telling to Jan Ericson himself and his way of debating. Let me put it this way: in recent years we have had the biggest electricity surpluses ever. We've had an electricity surplus of 11 years in a row. Sweden is not a planned economy, Jan Ericson. We are a market economy and a mixed economy. This means that Swedish industry invests incredible sums of money in new electricity production. I believe that 80 – 90 billion have been invested in new Swedish energy production in recent years. I agree with Jan Ericson that if demand continues to increase, investment will also increase. To ensure that this will be the case, the government has developed both an electrification strategy to outline the guidelines for increasing electricity generation in the country and set up an electrification commission to facilitate electrification on the roads. I could go so far as to say that Sweden should continue to have large electricity surpluses in order to export electricity to our neighbouring countries and be part of their climate transition but also, Jan Ericson, in order to import jobs to Sweden. Europe's largest battery factory is now being built in Skellefteå, and the world's first carbon-free steel production is using electricity and hydrogen in the Hybrid project. Exciting industrial investments are made in Sweden thanks to our good access to electricity at competitive prices. Rejoice with it!
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1116	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan what the Minister is doing for the development of the Swedish export industry and its ability to cope with competition and develop from Swedish energy production. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Initially, I can see that Sweden has a very good starting point, also for an increased electrification of industry and transport sector in the future. We have a high level of security of supply, and no power user has had to be disconnected due to lack of power. We have historically large electricity surpluses. Sweden's medium-sized and large companies have the lowest retail prices throughout the European Union. We have very low-carbon electricity production compared to other countries, and they are falling. Only a handful of countries in the world have an electricity supply with equal emissions. The overall environmental movement in the world gives Sweden ratings as the country in the world that has the best climate policy. Furthermore, I note that the conditions for the expansion of new renewable electricity generation have changed considerably in recent years. On 19 May 2019 the target level for 2020 was passed within the joint electricity certificate system with Norway, and we are already very close to the target level for 2030. This means that our high expectations will be met by a great deal and that larger production facilities of renewable electricity are now profitable without any support, and that is very good for the future. However, I am humbled by the task ahead. Substantial efforts will be required in the coming years. The government is therefore working extensively with a number of ongoing processes to enable Sweden to reach the goal of becoming a fossil-free precursor country. This also helps to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish industry that can sell and export products with low climate impact. The work on the government's e playtrification strategy has recently begun. D is, among other things, a central role for authorities, regions and industry to work together to identify the needs and solutions that an increased use of electricity can bring. Another example is Fossil-free Sweden where several industrial industries have developed roadmaps to show how they can strengthen their competitiveness by becoming fossil-free or climate-neutral. Finally, e l production and electricity transmission are basic pieces of the puzzle for our society to function and create growth. It is therefore urgent that we have effective processes for building new and developing existing plants.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1122	Madam President, I would like I have asked a question about the development of the Swedish export industry. Since the 1990s crisis, Sweden has increased its exports almost annually. In 2019 it amounted to a total of SEK 2,360 billion. One can rightly say that our whole welfare society depends on our strong export industry. We mainly export goods, and these goods often require a lot of energy for their production. Cars, trucks, heavy machinery, steel and forest products of various kinds make up the vast majority of our exports. New products are also emerging, such as battery factories and server halls, and huge amounts of energy are needed for data storage. All these major export goods, new and old, have one thing in common, namely that they require a lot of energy in manufacturing processes. It is also partly because we have had the natural resources needed for this production that it has existed in Sweden. It is these products and this production that have contributed to Swedish welfare, not social democracy. This is the reason why the Social Democracy has had the opportunity to distribute welfare in Sweden for many years. We have lifted Sweden from a poor country to a welfare country. Madam President, I would like Our exports decreased by 2.7 per cent in this particular pandemic year from November 2019 to November 2020. Imports only decreased by 1.7 per cent. But our export industry is still strong, and we want it to continue to be. In that case, there are certain conditions in which policy can influence to some extent. When it comes to free trade and free trade agreements, we are pushing from Sweden on. Sweden also has a platform that gives us access to a large European market and gives us the opportunity to influence the trading conditions of countries outside Europe with which we are trading. Our industry has undergone many different transformations to remain competitive and meet tough climate requirements. Now they are making a gigantic shift from fossil fuels to electric power and a large part of hydrogen-driven production. This places great demands on production, on companies and on businesses, but also on climate-smart, delivery-proof and power-stable electricity generation. Madam President, I would like We will not reduce our electricity demand, as we thought a decade ago, but increase it. We must meet the demand for fossil-free production of energy. Sweden has a unique chance to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. But if we do not deal properly with the challenges that exist, this may be lost. Our technical know-how and industrial tradition can be put out of competition. We do not compete with low wages and poor working environment. We compete with good prices, security of supply of energy and quality.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1128	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked the Minister for Economic Affairs relevant questions, which are answered by the Minister for Energy here today, about the Swedish export industry, which is extremely important in several industries. Mines, steel, vehicles and a wide range of other areas mean a lot to us in terms of the economy, jobs, tax revenues, investment in research and a wide range of other parts. Sweden is an open and competitive economy. Their success lays a foundation for our prosperity in Sweden in several areas, with transport, taxes, skills supply and a lot of other things, but also, of course, in the important supply of electricity and energy. A well-functioning electricity and energy system has long been a competitive advantage for Sweden and is still in many respects, but it is increasingly challenged. I think, Madam President, that it is a very satisfied Minister for Energy who answers the questions today, despite the fact that we have had three electricity crises in the space of more than a year. When it is called for a more secure electricity supply, the Party of the Minister for Energy chooses to vote to close Ringhals Reactor 1 without having an alternative in place. If you don't trust the Moderates, you can take note of what some others have said. The fact that Anders Ygeman talks about national surpluses calls Kemira in Today's industry a gibberish. The company Boreali says, "We are very worried and frustrated about the development of the electricity market. "The company Trioplast says, "we see an increasing risk that in the future the electricity supply will function less well. In the same magazine, the company Holmen says that you can't just start and stop a paper mill – either you drive or you don't drive. Concerns are partly about capacity and partly about large price fluctuations. What Sweden needs is another focus on energy policy, where it is resolutely addressing the problems that exist. We need economic development and a green transition. This requires a new electricity network regulation, a new electricity market model, shorter processing times for electricity grids, a better analytical capacity of government and state, and that we get new production capacity faster, just to mention a few examples. Then, of course, we have the Swedish environmental benefits in the electricity and energy system. I was just looking at this a little while ago. In Swedish production it is currently 48 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowa t hour produced. In Germany it is currently 10 times as high, in Poland 15 times as high and in Estonia 25 times as high. It is an advantage for us and for Swedish customers. But I would also say that it represents a challenge in the future. Sweden and the Swedish electricity system must not lose the climate and environmental benefits we have when there is reinvestment and development and when one changes from one production mode to another or in other ways develops the system gradually. I find it worrying that the energy industry in Sweden sees that the government is working with generals, councils and round tables rather than government investigations, concrete proposals and a comprehensive plan to secure industry's electricity supply. Madam President, I would like Today we have a debate in which the Minister for Energy has the chance to answer important questions. Will Anders Ygeman respond to Moderates' demands to set up an electrical grid investigation? Why was it more important for the Social Democrats in Parliament to shut down nuclear power than to contribute to the security of electricity supply? What does Anders Ygeman's alternative to Ringhals 1 look like when the reactor is now closed? Does Anders Ygeman share the view of the Moderates that a first step in the network concession investigation is good but that it is completely insufficient if we are to cut and shorten the processing times for grid expansion? And finally: Is Anders Ygeman prepared to change energy targets and focus on fossil-free, as experts say is significantly cheaper for Swedish customers?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1135	Madam President, I would like The Government notes that Sweden has a very good starting point for increased electrification of the industry and transport sector in the future. The Government also says that there is a high level of security of supply and that no electricity user has had to be disconnected due to a shortage of electricity. The usual mantra that we have historically large surpluses reappears. Let me quote once again the views of companies from today's industry! Kemira:中 As Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman talking about having a national electricity surplus on an annual basis is political gibberish and one way to turn a blind eye to the big and rapidly growing problems we have with security of supply and price fluctuations. We are very worried and frustrated about the development of the electricity market that is becoming acute. This is extremely serious not least given that these industries account for tens of thousands of jobs and export revenues of over SEK 300 billion. We see an increasing risk that the electricity supply will function less well in the future. It would be absolutely devastating because we run our plants around the clock, all year round and are completely dependent on the electricity functioning. This is a company that has a turnover of billions and employs many people. These companies, the business community and the country need answers. We have debated several times that there is a social change going on and that Ringhals 1 was about to disappear, as it has now done. My party friends and I have asked questions about the closure. This is a decision for which the government has to take responsibility. The government should point to how to ensure and guarantee the stability of electricity when choosing this way forward. How are we gonna get electricity in the system? Sweden needs its companies, and we need new start-ups as well as more companies choosing to grow in our country. It is well known that the conversion means that industry and the transport sector are using and will use more and more electricity. Delivery security is needed 24 hours a day, seven days a week and 365 days a year. This is something that Sweden historically did not even have to think about. This is an opinion expressed by industry. What is Minister Anders Ygeman's response to the business community and these companies? The question is what will happen in the future. LKAB is investing together with Vattenfall and SSAB in a partnership for new innovations to produce steel without coal, which the Government itself has taken up, and this is on its way. Of course, it is an exciting industry, which the Government also raised in a speech in the last debate here this evening. We are delighted, Madam President and the Government, that we will be able to get it in place for the whole of Sweden and that it is the future of our country that we are thinking about. This also means ensuring security of supply and security of supply of electricity. The question comes back. What is the answer to the Swedish companies and industry that means so much to our small trade-dependent country? Will we have security of electricity supply ahead as we have had historically?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1141	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered's questions have been answered in the four previous interpellation debates. I am not going to take up the time of the House to answer them again. As for Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's question, the simple answer to your question is yes, we can manage that. We will continue to have equal access to electricity. That's why we have an electrification strategy. Now you have read these quotes from the Moderates. I don't know if it's three, four, five, six or seven times. I am pleased that we have received a shift in the position of President so that the President does not have to hear them again. I can still ask Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson a question, which reads the quotes. It is said that the large national electricity surpluses are not important for our particular industry. For our industry, it is more important that we do not have fluctuating prices. For most consumers in Sweden, low electricity prices are a delight. Hybrids depend on the fluctuating low electricity prices. Their business idea is that when the price of electricity is low, they will make hydrogen out of the large electricity surplus we have in Sweden. You read out a number of companies that think that the big problem in Sweden is the fluctuations in the price of electricity. I would like to ask a straight question back to Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson : Does AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson think it is a problem that we have fluctuations in the price of electricity and that we have the lowest electricity prices ever? If it is a problem that you express by reading these quotations, what steps will the Moderates take to get high stable electricity prices instead?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1147	Madam President, I would like When Ringhals 1 closed at the end of the year, this means that the security of supply in southern Sweden, price area four, will be uncertain. The reserve capacity that existed in the past is instead obtained through the import of fossil energy. This means a deterioration of our climate objectives and also a deterioration of our competitiveness. I do not really understand how the Minister thinks about this. At 10 a.m. this morning, for example, energy from Denmark and fossil energy were imported as much as Ringhals 1 produced. Then, of course, it varies hour by hour and minute by minute. But that's what it actually looks like. It's a big dilemma. You can produce as much ice cream as you like in winter, but no one actually wants it. What we need is reliable energy. A large part of our export industry is heavy, energy-intensive industry. Lars Helmered mentions Volvo in Gothenburg. It is not only Volvo in Gothenburg that makes Volvo cars but a large part of southern Sweden makes components that are then actually assembled in Gothenburg. It is not just places like Gothenburg that are affected but the whole of Sweden. Although you may not want to go public with it, there is concern among companies. Many of these companies are also international. They are constantly competing with jobs if not in a global market so in a European market. We can now see, for example, that Poland will make great efforts. 300 000 jobs will be redeployed, it is estimated, from mining to nuclear power production. Sweden is a special country. We do not export like Denmark, which exports almost as much or more, 45% of its GDP. But there is a lot of container traffic, pigmeat and agricultural products. It's not heavy steel and heavy machinery like in my hometown with Epiroc, which makes basic machines. It requires completely different industries than Denmark has. We cannot even compare with our neighbours. This is nothing more than a Swedish job. Sweden is not the best in the class in terms of unemployment. We are actually third from the bottom of Europe right now. After the coronapndemine, we will have major problems catching up and getting people into work. All the investments we can make and everything we can secure so that we secure energy and create a confidence in the future in order to want to invest in entrepreneurship in Sweden is hugely important if we are to kick this country off afterwards. You shouldn't think everyone else is doing nothing. There is a huge amount of work going on to change production to electrification in Europe. It would be a shame if we didn't kick Sweden off first. We really have the lead shirt in many things as it looks now. That is why perhaps I would rather have had Ibrahim Baylan as a debater. It is very much about jobs and nutrition and not just about energy.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1157	Madam President, I would like Swedish industry is extremely important. We can see what is happening with regard to vehicles, pharmaceuticals, forests, mines, steel and other sectors that are extremely important. Both now in the Corona crisis and beyond, we need to think about what we can do politically to strengthen the Swedish industry's ability to cope with the sharp competition that exists in terms of transport costs and skills supply. Sweden is at risk of falling behind in the 5G area vis-à-vis competitor countries. It's an important platform technology. It is also, of course, about the security of electricity supply that Sweden has historically had with very low electricity prices, something that is increasingly being tested. These are both problems and opportunities. Sweden has surpluses on a monthly and annual basis of electricity. At the same time, we have capacity problems around the country. It went to the point that the government had to throw in crisis packages over the head so that it would not be urgent in Skåne and Stockholm. We have historically low electricity prices in the so-called spot market. At the same time, Swedish companies are sweating because the total cost of electricity, which is the money they pay from the companies, with taxes, VAT, electricity certificates and electricity grid fees, is not at Europe's lowest level as it has historically been. Now is the time for reform. It is about electricity grids, the electricity market model, permit times, faster on-site production and a better analytical capacity, just to name a few areas. Then it is not enough with the General Council of the Government and round table discussions. We need investigations, concrete legislative proposals and leadership. That is why we must have a new energy policy for Sweden, Madam President.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1162	Madam President, I would like The government raised fluctuations and wondered if I could give an answer to that. It is difficult for companies to adapt. There are also costs for taxes, VAT and certificates of electricity. It's supposed to work for the business community. The situation in Skåne prevents new connections of production, infrastructure, properties and housing. The figures show that regional growth is not increasing properly. It also includes industry that wants to establish itself. For me as a actor and Swedish citizens, it is a concern that industry cannot establish itself in Skåne. It affects the whole region. When it comes to prices for electricity in Skåne, the price for electricity has been ten times higher in southern Sweden than in northern parts of the country. I would like to ask the Minister if he shares my view that Skåne and South Sweden will be able to expand and maintain and attract industry in the future. Then we must have a safe and secure electricity supply in order for companies like Höganäs AB to continue their expansion and be world leader even though they use a lot of electricity in their production. But they are world leaders. This is exactly what the Government has also addressed about LKAB's innovation and other things. We have very good and functioning industry in the country that is developing, changing and changing towards sustainable development. These debates are about the concern that Sweden should not be able to be the country we have been when it comes to electricity supply, which should be secured. Our small, trade-dependent country is exposed to global competition, and then we need security of electricity supply.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1168	Madam President, I would like On AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's question, the answer is yes. Skånska companies should be able to develop, be able to increase their impact needs, be able to import jobs and be able to export goods. It's good for Sweden, and it's good for Skåne. Then we need to nuance and get to the bottom of what a market is and what an electricity market is. Sweden buys and sells electricity all days of the year and all hours of the day. This is not because we have deficits or surpluses, but because in a market goods and services are moving according to price. When we get more money for the electricity, we will export it. Sweden is also the transit market for a number of countries; we export and import electricity through Sweden. This means that even the coldest hour and the coldest day exports Sweden electricity. Sweden has been a net exporter of electricity over the last ten years. That means we've exported more electricity than we've imported. For the last two years, we've broken records. We have net exported more electricity than ever. Sweden contributes more than the vast majority of countries in Europe to enable other countries in Europe to benefit from Swedish carbon-free and renewable electricity. It's something we should be happy about and proud of, and this has increased in recent years – not decreased. In addition, over time, the countries around us will reduce their carbon content in their electricity production, making it all the more important to have a well-functioning energy market. By having an energy market between countries, it will be cheaper for all countries that are part of that market. Otherwise, each country itself would have to cover all its energy needs, and we would have a huge excess capacity of electricity. That is why we have linked the countries' energy markets together, and I understand that this is a development that has been supported and endorsed by the Moderates. Enjoy that we have a functioning energy market and that we both buy and sell electricity! It is good for Sweden, and it is good for the countries in our surrounding world. The situation we have in Sweden is a little different from the one that has been the main feature of this debate. A number of companies choose to put their production in Sweden because we have the EU's lowest electricity prices and stable electricity supplies. Look at the ranking and compare! Sweden's electricity grid is ranked at its best in the world by the IEA, the international energy organisation. We have higher or as high security of supply as the countries around us. We have lower electricity prices than any country in the world around us. That's why we get the largest battery factory in northern Europe in Sweden. That's why Hybrid develops in Sweden etcetera etcetera. The right way to establish this is not to identify one type of energy or another type of energy. The right way to proceed is to say: We shall have continued surpluses of electricity. We're going to export electricity to other countries. We will import jobs and industry into Sweden. We should be able to agree on that. We should be able to develop this together for the good of Sweden.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1176	Madam President, I would like Energy debates are always exciting. There is no time when freedom of movement is so strongly enshrined in the Social Democracy as in energy policy. Then you turn a lot for it, and we're all happy about that. But it should also be fossil-free energy. It is a sign of honour for Sweden, and we are one of the countries with the highest tailings when it comes to standing up for the climate. Then it can't be that we should have dirty electricity because we have invested in overproduction of wind power but can't manage the base production when it's cold in Skåne. We agree on a lot of things. Nor can we use hydropower to drive hydrogen production in Norrland. It is probably the intermittent wind power that we should primarily use to make hydrogen out of and not the kind of power that we can actually control. This is the great dilemma of the whole of Europe. In southern Europe, fossil energy must be used to obtain the basic energy. But Sweden stands with both nuclear and hydropower, and the government is turning only for wind power. It's not like I'm not standing up for wind power. But that really is not necessary, because we have a government that stands up just, you might say, for wind power. In the end, this is about jobs and our welfare. We don't want to end up at the bottom of the unemployment list. Sweden is third from the bottom now. We want to be on the list, and we want a welfare country. And then we have to look at our house.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1181	Madam President, I would like No, the government is not in favour of any particular kind of energy – unlike some debaters in this House. Together with the Moderates, we have abolished the green certificates for wind power. Wind power must now carry itself and stand on its own feet. Together with the Moderates in the Energy Agreement, we have ensured that nuclear power has the best economic conditions since nuclear power was put into operation in this country. Together with the Moderates, we have agreed to abolish the offshore wind connection fee in order to ensure that it has a more level playing field and helps to feed electricity into southern Sweden. I welcome all these measures. I think it is a pity that the Moderates have chosen to leave the energy agreement that we concluded together with the Moderates and other parties. I hope that, over time, the Moderates will reconsider and return to becoming the constructive state-supporting party that I know them as so that we can jointly find positive solutions for the good of Sweden. Until then, we will meet in this House to have these exciting and developing interpellation debates.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1185	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me if I share the view that Sweden must increase the use of electricity in order to cope with the climate change and in what way I intend to work for Sweden's energy policy to be adapted and designed according to the future electricity demand. Lars Hjälmered has also asked me how I intend to work towards a cost-effective electricity system that protects all types of fossil-free electricity production. I would like to begin by saying that Sweden will be one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. I am aware of the importance of our climate-smart electricity generation as a central building block for climate change. We should continue to make our use of electricity more efficient, but increased electrification means that increased use of electricity will be needed for the conversion to net zero emissions in both the transport sector and industry. So the straight answer to Lars Helmered's question is yes. It is therefore positive that Sweden has a good starting point with historically large electricity surpluses and therefore large net exports of electricity. Sweden will continue to have a robust electricity system with high security of supply, low environmental impact, efficient use and electricity at competitive prices. Sweden has a target of 50% more efficient energy use by 2030 compared to 2005. This is also an important objective to facilitate increased electrification. The Government is actively working with various measures to enable electrification on issues such as charging infrastructure, network capacity and the electricity market. Work has also begun with a national electrification strategy that will take a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector to contribute to the 2030, 2040 and 2045 climate targets. The strategy will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification. Finally, I note that the parliamentary targets for energy policy based on the 2016 Energy Agreement, which Lars Helmered's party has chosen to leave, are still valid. The overall objective of energy policy is to reconcile security of supply, competitiveness and ecological sustainability. The focus on energy policy approved by the Parliament ensures that the government works both in the short and long term to ensure the security of electricity supply at competitive prices.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1190	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to debate the Swedish electricity and energy system and the climate benefits we have and will continue to have forward. My vision is that we will have a strong economic development in Sweden that we combine with a green transition. There is a great need for economic development, not least after the coronapandemy – new technologies, new jobs, better economies for our citizens, and companies that continue to pay taxes that secure welfare and welfare funding. There is also a need for green change, especially in areas such as transport and industry. Experts have pointed out that the use of electricity in Sweden may increase by as much as 50 or 60 percent. Some speak of even greater increases as scenarios ahead. For me, these are not only scenarios but also a desired development of society. If we are to combine economic development and the green transition, I believe that the cement in between is an increased use of electricity from fossil-free energy. Historically, Sweden has had one of the world's best electricity and energy systems. We have the purest thing in the whole of Europe. But we also face a number of problems and challenges. Total electricity costs are no longer lowest in Europe, as they have done in the past. We have had three electric crises in Sweden within just over a year – in Skåne, in Stockholm and in southern Sweden. We also see the future needs, which are a challenge in this, of simply having regulation and conditions that will enable the necessary investments – we are talking in practice hundreds of billions of crowns – to come into place. So there are opportunities, but there are also problems. These electric crises have highlighted some of the challenges that exist. There have also been problems in Sweden with long processing times to get electricity grids and new electricity generation in place. Experts generally agree that both electricity grid regulation and the electricity market model need to be developed. On this basis, Madam President, I have put three important questions to the Minister for Energy. The first concerns the increased electricity demand. I think that the Minister for Energy gave a clear answer just now: he shares the view that we are seeing an increase in electricity demand ahead. It is important, Madam President, because, as I said, it is not just a scenario, but is about the desired political development. Should we have an electrical system just like today, it sets certain conditions. If we are to have a substantial increase, we need substantially more money to be invested, and with that, of course, also political reforms. The second, Madam President, is about the way in which the Government works for the Swedish energy policy to be designed and adapted so that we can achieve this. There I can see that there has been a lot of consultation, discussions and generals but not investigations, plans and resolute action by the government. I'm sorry about that. My question is: what does the Minister of Energy intend to do in the future? The third question, Madam President, is how the Government intends to promote a cost-effective electricity system in which we protect all types of fossil-free electricity production. Ultimately, it is always a consumer, a household or a company who pays. A large proportion of Swedish customers are also very competitive. No one else pays. In a research study, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has indicated that an electricity system that focuses on fossil freedom is 40 per cent cheaper than an electricity system that focuses on 100 per cent renewable. So what does the Minister of Energy intend to do to ensure that we have a cost-effective energy system for the benefit of households and businesses?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1199	Madam President, I would like Leading experts say that Sweden needs to increase its electricity use by up to 60 percent in order to make a change in society. This requires an increase in electricity generation and its cleanness. That is why we think it is important to have nuclear power and hydropower combined as a base. That is also why we are talking about fossil-free energy. Swedish hydropower and nuclear power have benefited Sweden well, as two robust legs for Swedish industry and growth. The energy mix also generates extremely low greenhouse gas emissions. No one, really no one, has had to think in the past about whether we will be able to expand and cope with the electricity supply. On the question from Lars Helmered if the Government shares the assessment that Sweden must increase the use of electricity in order to cope with the climate change, the Government answers that increased use of electricity will be needed for the conversion to net zero emissions in both the transport sector and industry, the green transition. That's where we're in complete agreement. It has also become quite clear where we stand during this evening's various interpellation debates. If an increased electricity demand is the way, a number of measures are needed. Then I would like to come back to this with secure energy and capacity. I would like to mention Skåne once again, because there is a great deal of concern there. We do not have the necessary preparedness to cope with, for example, a major power cut or to cope with the growth that we need. Skåne does not develop in the way it could. Scanian companies risk large production losses and loss of revenue. Important sectors of society are at risk of no longer being able to carry out their activities. Madam President, I would like I will not prolong the debate, but I would nevertheless like to say that we have repeatedly addressed all the companies that have heard from them and in various ways, including with the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce, raised their concerns.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1204	Madam President, I would like We began this wonderful evening in this House with considerable differences of opinion. Nevertheless, I see that we can conclude it in a bit more of a consensus. I will start by agreeing with Lars Hjälmered and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson : This is not just a possible social development; it is a desired social development. By increasing the use of electricity, we can push away fossil production, create new jobs and get new innovations in Sweden. Neither I, Lars Hjälmered nor Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson – or Lotta Olsson for that matter – know how much energy will be needed in the future. We know that anyone who tries such predictions is often wrong. But we need to take height for a substantial increase in the use of electricity. The basis for this, of course, is the goals that the Riksdag has set for energy policy and that the Moderates have been involved in developing. I apologize if I may have missed one of Lars Helmered's questions. He said there were three, but I've only written two questions down. I apologise for that and may, in that case, come back later in the discussion. But the basis for cost-effectiveness, Lars Helmered, is the market – that different types of energy have to compete with each other and that as far as possible we also allow different solutions to compete with each other. It can be system services, different technologies or other things. In this way, we will be able to give the consumer, whether it is a private individual or a company, the lowest electricity prices and the lowest electricity grid prices. I note that we agree that there will be substantial increases in the use of electricity. If we agree on the main features of what should be the way forward in Swedish energy policy, should we not be able to discuss it and agree on it for the benefit of Sweden as well? I regret that the Moderates left the Energy Agreement, not so much for the policy on the individual small issues. We will be able to create a majority in the Swedish Parliament for a constructive way forward. But cooperation between political parties that have different views gives long-term and stability. And if it is something that Swedish industry and Swedish industry need with an uncertain environment, it is that as much stability, security and long-termness as possible. Therefore, I appeal to the Moderates: Drop some of your own prestige! Be involved in discussions with other parties and come back to the energy agreement that actually led to investments of SEK 80-90 billion in Swedish cost-effective energy production, and that made it possible for anyone who wants and wants to build or invest in new nuclear power plants. Lars Hjälmered himself said when the energy agreement was concluded that it was the guarantor of saving nuclear power in Sweden. Now Lars Helmered seems to have a different view of the energy agreement, and I respect that. However, I would like to say that although we have different views on some issues, it would be a strength for Sweden if we could agree on the way forward.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1213	Madam President, I would like My vision is about a strong economic development and a green transition that is combined and with a kitt where we use the Swedish electricity system to achieve the two societal goals at the same time. For that to happen, we need clear reforms forward. We must be clear as political leaders and say that it is desirable to have a substantial increase in the use of electricity and to take advantage of the opportunities in transport, industry and other areas. We must ensure that policy proposals are made and decided when it comes to developing areas such as electricity grid regulation and the electricity market model, cutting processing times in order to get new electricity production in place, improving analytical capacity and a series of other things. In this debate, Madam President, I have raised a few issues with the Government. One of them was about what the Government wants to do in concrete terms in order to get the increased electricity generation and use in place, i.e. the reforms. There we can see, I think, that there has been a great deal of consultation, discussion and generals, but not as much of government investigations and legislative proposals that are being put on Parliament's table and a pace of reform ahead, and I regret that. For example, if we are to have a chance to develop the electricity grid model in time for the next regulatory period, the government must set up some form of electricity grid investigation. More needs to be done than what the government has done so far with so-called support services. A greater grip is needed to develop the market model. I am waiting for the government to come up with the so-called Online Concession investigation, but I and experts in the industry are generally agreed that more needs to be done to shorten and cut processing times both for this and for production. That brings me to my second question, namely on cost-effectiveness, Madam President. In an extensive research study, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise states that if we in Sweden continue as we do now and have an energy target that says that it should be 100 percent renewable, it will be 40 percent more expensive than if we focus on 100 percent fossil freedom. It is always a customer, a household or a company that pays, and a large part of the Swedish economy consists of companies that compete and compete for customers with companies in other countries. Thus, the total electricity cost, what you pay for electricity grids, taxes, fees, certificates of electricity and emission allowances, is very crucial for the future of Swedish companies. Based on such an important research study that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has produced, I venture at least to say that one conclusion is right, namely that the most cost-effective for Sweden would be to have about one third each of nuclear power, hydroelectric power and wind power. Then we know that wind power, happily, carries itself on its own merits and enters the market. Nuclear power can be discussed in particular. We still have the question of Swedish hydropower. I think that a political conclusion, if one takes responsibility, would be to secure the Swedish hydropower. We should not go in and consider what the courts will find out but make sure that Swedish authorities are governed with the focus that it is about protecting and developing as much hydropower as we can. Then we have the opportunity to take on board the results of the research study, i.e. to change the energy target for Sweden from renewable to fossil-free. Thus we achieve our climate goals and get a more cost-effective system. To sum up, Madam President, will the government set up an electricity network investigation? Do you come up with more proposals than the Online Concession Investigation? And is the government prepared to put forward a proposal for a new energy target that will give us a more cost-effective system?
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1222	Madam President, I would like I can only say that I agree with Lars Helmered's great, clear view of the situation, about what needs to be put in place and how the Moderates view it all. It is, of course, a desirable social development to switch to electricity generation in terms of benefits and opportunities, and that includes nuclear power. It is absolutely important to get there, we think. It must be seen in this context that not least South Sweden and the country can once again get the exchange so that we maximise our growth and get secure electricity ahead. Not least when the pandemic passes, our country, which is fantastic and has great opportunities and great potential, really needs to use its energy to take us out even better as a player in the global market and also nationally. I would also like to say to the Government that there is an opportunity not only for the Moderates to reach a broad agreement, but the Social Democrats may also be able to approach the moderate ideas.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1225	Madam President, I would like I think Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson at the end hits the nail on the head: We are prepared to make deals if you like us. Of course, I could also say that we are prepared to make deals just as we do. But this sandbox does not create long-term conditions for Sweden. In fact, in the energy agreement that we had, the Moderates and the Social Democrats did so, because both of us and the other parties involved were prepared to compromise. The question is why the Moderates left that position for a position where you were prepared to make agreements only if you got through all your own policies. I'm sorry about that. You can punch each other in the head with words, but the government has started work on an electrification strategy and an electrification commission. We come with proposals from the online concession inquiry, we have given support services assignments, we have given assignments to county boards and to the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate. There will be many opportunities in the future to discuss energy policy and proposals at Parliament's table. The discussion on renewable versus fossil-free can be conducted in many different places. I have some respect for the conclusions presented by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, although I believe that if you do other boundaries you can come up with completely different results. One question that is perhaps more important than what studies the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry does is how the Swedish industry's own investments are distributed. Are they distributed by one third on nuclear power, one third on hydro power and one third on wind power, or are they distributed differently? Although we have increased the competitiveness of nuclear energy, it does not seem that the Swedish industry's energy investments are distributed in this way, but that they are distributed differently. I think this is a more important signal from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise than the political impact reports. I have discussed hydropower, fish routes and environmental testing with Lars Hjälmered for many hours at a meeting after a meeting. Sometimes it has been rewarding, sometimes a little less rewarding. I would like to discuss again with Lars Helmered how we can get more hydropower in Sweden. We still have those talks but now without Lars Helmered, because the Moderates have chosen to leave the agreement. There is some wisdom in what Lars Helmered and the Moderates bring forward. I am sure that although the Moderates are not in the Energy Agreement, we will listen to the Moderates and include some of the Moderates' proposals. Two great things have happened as the Moderates have left the Energy Agreement. First of all, the Moderates, and also the Christian Democrats, have gained less influence over the energy policy orientation in Sweden. It'll be the effect when you leave the table. Secondly, Swedish business and energy investors in Sweden have been given more unclear rules for what applies, which of course reduces the willingness to invest in Swedish energy and increases uncertainty for Swedish business. We seem to agree that electricity use in Sweden needs to increase and that it will be positive for our environmental objectives. Then it would be good if we could also agree on the way there and create long-term rules for Swedish energy policy and increase the influence of moderate energy policy in Sweden.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1236	Madam President, I would like The Moderates completed the energy agreement we signed. We have continued to talk, and I want to make it clear that I am prepared to talk to all political parties about sensible proposals. Last autumn we put an end to a bad electricity network proposal from the government and at the same time extended a hand to solve a power grid problem. We were in and gathered a majority to get an evaluation of the crisis packages launched for Stockholm and Skåne. I intend to continue to take responsibility for a Swedish electricity and energy policy based in Parliament. If we have a vision of a significant increase in the use of electricity in the future, political action is needed. Here, I think we can demand more from the government, such as launching an electricity network investigation and going beyond the dialogue that has been. I think it is wise for an online concession investigation to look at processing times, but more needs to be done to further shorten the times. It is wise to commission Swedish power networks to look at so-called support services, but we need to have a larger review of the market model. It is simply about a different and clearer political leadership. So to the question of cost-effectiveness. In its study, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has found that focusing on fossil-free is significantly more cost-effective than focusing on 100 percent renewable. Then it is a fairly reasonable discussion to take in a competitive economy like the Swedish one. One example is the securing of hydroelectric power. It is not about electricity prices and taxation, but about regular uncertainty. We do not know what the courts do, but the Riksdag and ultimately the Minister can influence what county boards and others do so that they live up to the spirit of parliament. This requires a little more action from the government than we have seen so far, and I hope that we can achieve that.
i-8955ab6e2ae2c9cf-1242	Madam President, I would like I share Lars Helmered's view. We must ensure that the agreement we have reached together on the conditions for hydropower also has the outcome we have aimed for and want. I wish we could do this more together. We also agree that cost-effectiveness should be an overarching objective. I believe, however, that the cost-effectiveness should be assessed on the basis of more studies than just the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I believe that we will see a broader basis on this issue. This also applies, of course, to cogeneration, nuclear power and offshore wind power. In fact, I believe that we and the Moderates agree fundamentally that each type of energy should, as far as possible, bear its own costs and assume its share of responsibility for system costs. In this way, investments in energy production in Sweden will fall under the best conditions to create cost efficiency, both in the individual energy category and in the energy system as a whole. Although I recognise the influence of the Moderates through the parliamentary and opposition parties, it is still less of an influence than the Energy Agreement. By leaving the agreement, the Moderates, and the Christian Democrats, have de facto reduced their influence on Sweden's future development and increased uncertainty. I'm sorry about that.
