i-d3f73cd47014e95c-5	Mr. Old President! Alexandra Anstrell has asked the Minister for Economic Affairs what initiatives he has taken to improve for Sweden's horse industry and whether he intends to clarify the regulations so that it becomes clear that even small-scale businesses can be classified as economic activities. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The horse industry is a growing industry that is important for rural development and entrepreneurship. Since 2004, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the former Ministry of Rural Development has been offering an arena for dialogue between all the organisations in the horse sector, the so-called cooperation group in the field of horses. The aim of the group has been to create a common platform for constructive and continuous dialogue to exchange ideas and ways of working and identify areas of development and cooperation. Partly as a result of this dialogue, there has since 2018 been one of the industry's adopted national strategy for horse entrepreneurship, which has now become a well-established platform for the industry. The national strategy for horse business operators is structured according to the structure of the national food strategy and works on action plans in a similar way. The cooperation group in the field of horses is not formally discontinued, but after the adoption of the national strategy for horse entrepreneurship, the need for the arena of the cooperation group was reduced. I see this as a positive development. On 31 October 2020, the Government received the interim report of the Spelmarket Investigation on the financing of the horse industry in the reregulated gambling market (SOU 2020:64). The report is currently being prepared within the Government Office. In addition, the Government decided in early November on the legislative referral A new Consumer Purchase Act(Ju2021/03808). The government proposes to introduce certain specific rules for the purchase of live animals by consumers, such as horses. The aim is to create a more appropriate system for both traders and consumers and to contribute to good animal welfare and respect for animals in such purchases. In order for an activity to be regarded as an economic activity for tax purposes, it must, inter alia, be carried on for profit. If there is no profit, it is a hobby activity that is taxed in the income category of service. Questions about the distinction between hobby and business are always questions of proof and assessment. This means that an overall assessment should be made on the basis of the circumstances of the individual case. As long as profit and other conditions are met, small-scale activities can also be classified as economic activities. However, where the limit is in the individual case must be assessed by the judicial authorities, i.e. primarily by the Tax Agency and, secondly, by the tax courts. The Swedish Tax Agency works to ensure consistency in taxation and legal certainty according to the circumstances of each individual case for citizens. Jag does not intend to take any initiatives to clarify the regulatory framework.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-9	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. In Sweden there are over 355,000 horses. The horse industry has a turnover of approximately SEK 31 billion per year, mostly in Skåne and Västra Götaland followed by Stockholm County. Jämtland, from which the Minister comes, accounts for only 2 per cent, but these 2 per cent mean about 7 000 horses in Jämtland alone and a turnover of around 500 million SEK per year. The horse is an excellent resource for sustainable community services. It creates community and is a symbol of our open landscapes. A small part of the horse industry in Sweden today is horse breeding. It only accounts for around 7% of the total turnover from the horse industry, but it is still around 1.7 billion that we are talking about. In Sweden, horse activities are conducted in many different forms. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's own memorandum, trotting, gallops, all branches of equestrian sport, such as dressage and jumping, horse training, riding training and so on, are included in the concept of horse activities. Practices for the assessment of whether or not horse activities, other than trotting, constitute economic activity are largely absent. Then it becomes a rather subjective assessment, and it becomes different across the country. ‘breeding' means breeding and rearing activities. A prerequisite for it to be considered a business activity is that it is intended to sell the horses. That's what most people are going to do. The breeding shall then be included as part of the overall assessment of whether the activity is to be considered as a hobby or an economic activity. Among the important factors that need to be taken into account in the assessment, in addition to those I have described earlier, are the number of breeding tonnes present in the operation. However, there are no rules for how many mares there should be. If you ask the Tax Agency in a county, you get an answer. If you ask in another place in Sweden you get another answer. It is not reasonable, Mr President of the Age, that there should be so great differences across the country. I therefore believe that a clarification mission is needed to the Swedish Tax Agency on the importance of the horse industry and that even small-scale activities can be classified as economic activities. That is also what I have asked the Minister about. Mr. Old President! Now the answer to Sweden's horse industry is clear: No, the Minister has no intention of doing anything. In his interpellation reply, the Minister said that, in order for an activity to be regarded as a business activity for tax purposes, it must, inter alia, be carried on for profit. If there is no profit, it is a hobby activity. ..................................................... But breeding, Mr. Old President, is not worth the first year. A mare is still pregnant 11 to 12 months. It'll take some time. Then depending on where you have for stallion and where you take the semen from, the prices vary of course. Yet, one might say that an ordinary horse costs nearly $1,000 before the foal has even come out. It may cost 30 000 kroner, and then you don't even know if you get a foal. You take pretty big risks. Not everyone can start with 100 horses. It is about building up your own breeding in a Sweden where we have a horse shortage. That it should not be possible to clarify in the regulations that even small-scale activities should be classed as economic activities is only a clear hint of how the Minister and the Government view the whole horse industry. It's embarrassing. It is an industry that trains good leaders, with activities that are equal and that make people feel good. Why are these entrepreneurs not important to the government?
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-20	Mr. Old President! Thank you, honourable Member, for the fine interest in the horse industry! Nevertheless, I do not think that words should be put in my mouth that I have ever said that the horse industry is not important. All industries that contribute to open landscapes, jobs, green industries and that we have rural development and an attractive countryside to live on are incredibly important. I haven't had a chance to meet the horse business yet. But, of course, as a new minister, I will meet all the industries. We both come from Jämtland which does not have a large share of the horses. However, there has also been a great deal of progress in the municipality from which the honourable Member and I come. Åre Riding House is now inaugurated on December 12. Although in my role as Minister I have not yet met the horse industry, the horse industry was very present when I was a municipal councillor there and we made sure that the conditions were in place for the riding house to be inaugurated on 12 December. As regards small-scale activities that are taxed as economic activities, the Swedish Tax Agency is of course constantly trying to have a uniform assessment. An important part of this work for the Swedish Tax Agency is to make positions on various issues that are then published. This also applies to the horse business. The honourable Member does not think that the government is doing anything to support horse business. Horse business also needs broadband, which we have invested a lot in. Horse entrepreneurship also needs digitalisation, where we invest in companies in rural areas. Even the horse industry needs what makes the countryside live, that is, we also have a functioning welfare, where the government has also invested a great deal. The horse industry, like all other industries, needs to be in a society where the rest works. The government has been delivering there for many years. We also have support precisely for the sparsely populated municipalities that the honourable Member mentioned, from which we come, among other things. There we have support specifically for 39 sparsely populated municipalities to develop their business environment. The distinction between hobby and business is always, as the honourable Member also says, evidence and assessment issues. This means that an overall assessment is made of the circumstances of the individual case. It is up to our legal bodies to decide. As I said in my answer, it is primarily the Tax Agency and, secondly, the tax courts.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-27	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! It is still strange that there are different assessments in the country. You should have x mares in one case according to the Swedish Tax Agency and y mares in the other case in order to be able to carry out a breeding operation. This is a clear example of the fact that it does not work as it should when carrying out horse breeding in Sweden. Åre Municipality is a fantastic municipality where we were both born. However, if you have been a municipal councillor in that municipality, you also need to review the contributions you make to the clubs up there. It's a little passus. But Åre Ridklubb gets a lot less money per active athlete compared to other sports. You can listen to that in the horse party podcast. It was Malva Hallbäck who was there and told about it. The horse is beneficial and makes people feel good. It contributes to a healthy and sustainable lifestyle both physically and mentally. The horse also creates unique ties to man but also fellowship between people. This is important. Mr. Old President! The foundation for well-being is found in enterprising people who start and run businesses. Four out of five jobs are created in companies with fewer than 50 employees. As I said earlier, the horse industry has a turnover of 31 billion and is creating about 17,000 jobs. The nutrition is important. Around horse-related activities there is daily consumption of goods and services. It's a feed, a hoof store or something. The effects of the horse industry in terms of consumption of goods and services represent approximately half a percent of Sweden's total GDP. It is a large and growing industry that we need to take seriously and support. If you see a problem, you have to solve it. Then you can't just ignore it. You really must support the industry if you are also a rural minister. The horse binds the same countryside to the city. The horse is important. In addition, in several places in the country, new arrivals are offered opportunities to feel at home more quickly in their new country by working with horses. They also have the horse as a resource in health, care, school and care. Association with horses does good for people both physically and mentally. At home in Haninge, where I now live, there are Stallis who are making tremendous progress with children who have been home from school for a very long time but who are now able to get through school. It's a fantastic business. The horse creates a unique situation and the opportunity to meet people. Today, interest in horses is increasing. It is not just about riding schools or private horses but very much about serious entrepreneurs who run companies in a variety of areas. Mr. Old President! There is a national shortage of horses, especially hobby and riding horses. The horse shortage may be linked to an increased interest in riding during the coronapandemine but also to an increased interest in horses in general. It's a lifestyle you want. Riding is the sport that after football has the most active practitioners in Sweden. We think it might be after the financial crisis that the breeding was slowed down. Bottoms were reached in 2013, and then the numbers have slowly climbed upwards. But there are problems. Today we have a shortage of horses. We have increased demand, but there are bureaucratic obstacles that prevent skilled, enterprising people from running companies to increase Swedish breeding. But the Minister has no intention of doing anything. It is sad and regrettable. In fact, I find it embarrassing for Swedish horse breeding that we should be proud of and promote. This applies not least to Wången up in Jämtland, which makes fantastic contributions.
i-Bdt5WxXGEHDXR3xCvhzecP	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell. I share the view of Malva Hallbäck. She's amazing. She lives very close to me. We're almost neighbors. Again, I would like to say that the honourable Member cannot put words into my mouth about the fact that I do not think that the horse industry is important. I really do. All industries that develop rural areas are important. I like the open landscapes. They create an attractiveness for people to want to live and work. Rural areas need more green, comfortable and climate-smart businesses. It also needs a well-being and infrastructure that works. The fact that the government would not think that the horse industry is important simply has to stand up for the honourable Member. As far as the Swedish Tax Agency and the various assessments are concerned, what I said is what the various bodies assess. They are simply the ones who make the assessment of what is classified as hobbies and what is classified as economic activities. One PM has tried to make the distinction between hobby and business. It is in order to be able to see what the honourable Member is talking about, that is, that it looks the same all over Sweden. There shall be an intention to conduct the business on a permanent basis, there shall be a business plan and financial calculations or similar, marketing shall take place in order to reach customers or a clientele and special permits shall be provided where necessary. There shall be a specific local and different purchases and investments. As the honourable Member points out, it is also a question of breeding, descent, tests, assessments, historical achievements, etc. There is, therefore, a memo to deal with, and this should seek the equivalent assessments that the honourable Member makes. The horse industry is important. As I began my speech by saying, it is not even two weeks since I became a minister, but I will of course meet the horse industry and see what more we can do to ensure that we have a functioning horse industry that makes the countryside live and that a place is attractive to live. And as the honourable Member says, this does not only apply to the countryside, but we also have horses in the city.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-49	Mr. Old President! I apologise, I would of course have congratulated the Minister on his ministry. It's fun to have an all-time boot in that position! If the Minister now thinks that the horse industry is important, it is actually up to evidence now. There is a bureaucratic problem here, and here we politicians need to create opportunities and not just have some kind of laissez-faire principle. There must be equal rules throughout the country; it is nevertheless a prerequisite. The Minister initially mentions something about the review of the Consumer Sales Law. This is important, Mr. Old President. The review is good, but the strange thing is that the investigation still lands in that the horse should remain in the Consumer Sales Law in purchases between business and private person. Several entrepreneurs whom I have met during this year do not want to sell horses to private individuals today, because horses cannot be handled in the same way as a refrigerator on sale. Horses are not things that can be thrown around, end up between the chairs and injured on the road Years ago, the EU opened up the possibility of saving animals from the Consumer Sales Law. Sweden pushed the issue hard to bring about the change. The law is intended solely to strengthen and protect the consumer's position vis-à-vis the trader. That is good; it is clear that we should have consumer security. But there is no protection for the animals today. The county administrative board's animal welfare is also not adapted to enter these situations. Horses get pinched. I think it is time to take a stand for animals and their right to a good life. Too many animals have suffered as a result of legislation. We Moderates want to change that, and I very much hope that the government can also support this. For animals, as I said, are not things that should be thrown around, end up between the chairs or injured on the road. We know better than to have such an approach.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-55	Mr. Old President! Nevertheless, the improvements proposed in consumer purchases are aimed both at safeguarding consumer rights and at ensuring that there is change. It is, as the honourable Member says, a question of living animals. I would like to conclude by saying thank you to the honourable Member for my first interpellation debate. We'll have number two soon! I would also like to say that the horse industry is incredibly important, and the green industries are very important. I will, of course, have a dialogue with the horse industry on both their great opportunities and on their challenges.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-57	Mr. Old President! Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to take any measures to enable measures to be taken to protect a whole territory, how I intend to ensure the safety of keepers in and around Sjundareviret and whether I intend to take any measures to enable the confidentiality of personal data on the applicant for a protection hunt for increased security. The overall and long-term goal of Sweden's predatory policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and kungsörn should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status under the EU's Species and Habitats Directive, while keeping domestic animals at home is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations are taken into account. Livestock management should be consistent with our EU legal obligations and other national targets. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported in 2013 that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden was 270. The reference value for favourable conservation status is a value that must not be underestimated – a floor for the trunk, quite simply. According to the European Commission's guidelines, a favourable conservation status benchmark should be developed from a vulnerability analysis. It is about finding a level of the tribe where it is not at risk of extinction. The vulnerability analysis underlying the benchmark was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects, which is a requirement of the European Commission's guidelines. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and to investigate on the basis of the new analysis what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that in view of the population's inbreeding rate, at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. Member States report the conservation status situation to the European Commission every six years. Between the reports, countries need to update developments. Last reported by Sweden, in 2019, it was stated that the reference value for favourable conservation status for wolf was deemed to be 300 individuals. I understand that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the wolf in Sweden now rests on the scientific basis that the European Commission's guidelines require of the Member States. The Swedish Wildlife Administration is regionalised. It is the county administrative boards that are responsible for interacting within and between counties so that predatory pressure is acceptable. County administrative boards have the possibility to decide on the hunting of wolves when the maintenance of the wolf's favourable conservation status is not made more difficult, inter alia with a view to reducing the concentration of predators in predatory areas. Viltskadecenter compile and evaluate the development of wildlife damage to domestic animals, including dogs. It is also possible to grant protection hunting after assessment by the county administrative board d it an application for protection hunting received. When it comes to the possibility of hunting for wolf protection, it is clear from the opt-outs under the Species and Habitats Directive, which have been transposed into our national hunting legislation, that three criteria must be met in order for the authority to decide on a protection hunting permit: the authorisation or maintenance of the favourable conservation status must not be made more difficult, it must be a serious injury and it must be clear that there is no other appropriate solution. According to the European Commission's guidelines on protection hunting, the hunting of each felled animal must be evaluated to see if the hunting has had an effect and will end the damage. If a new application does not need to be submitted and examined by the County Administrative Board concerned. The Council has decided during its term of office to contribute 100% of the cost of preventive measures, such as predator-repellent fences and removal of damage caused by predators, as well as secondary consequences for farmers and domestic animals following predatory attacks. The question of the need to review the confidentiality of personal data in connection with hunting decisions is currently being prepared in the Government Office. It should be possible for people to live, live and work in their green industries in the countryside. The Government is continuously working on measures to meet Parliament's objectives on predatory policy, on the food strategy and on the protection of biodiversity, and on our EU legal commitments in this area. It is not a question of evaluating these goals against each other, but of working towards achieving all the goals set by Parliament and the requirements of EU law on Sweden.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-67	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister concludes in his reply to me that it should be possible for people to live, live and work in their green industries in the countryside. You're supposed to achieve all the goals and not set them against each other. I agree. But they are dependent on each other, and sometimes priority may be needed. It is, like our job as politicians, to prioritise. Sjundareviret stretches from the E4 between Södertälje and Vagnhärad towards Lake Klämmingen in the west. Since 21 August, there have been a number of attacks on sheep herds in the territory, which spread out in both Södermanland and Stockholm County. There are also reports that a great many cats have disappeared for a long time. In fact, on one occasion there was one necklace left to ensure that it was the wolf that had eaten the cat. It's not that often you can do it otherwise. It was in the same territory, Sjundareviret, that the wolves in 2018 knocked out Stockholm County's largest sheep farm on Molstaberg after massacred about 60 sheep. Usually all wolves are equally large problem individuals. Then stronger measures may be needed than just shooting off a single wolf. Today's legislation only permits the granting of protection hunting permits on one wolf at a time until the problem ends. A reduction of one wolf individual at a time in areas with a lot of human activity is a rather ineffective measure. In order to achieve efficiency in the protection hunt, one should be able to eliminate an entire territory and not just individual wolves. There are a great many small businesses who work hard to contribute to food security and not least to having open landscapes. These sheep owners are encouraged to set up predatory fences, even against waterlines. Contributions are made to a small extent to set up fences, but on the total it will be a completely unrealistic solution for most people. In fact, I wonder if the government even cares about our vulnerable animal owners. I'm talking about those who are trying to make sure we have nice meat on our plates and make sure we have open landscapes. They're the ones who have to worry about their animals at night. They are the ones who, after a predator attack, have to go out into the pasture looking for their injured animals, perhaps killing a sheep that has a sharpening bloody hole in the throat but has not yet died — their mates. They are the ones who have to handle all the drills about the attack, both practical and bureaucratic. The same people and perhaps more people in the area experience enormous insecurity and may want to apply for protection hunting at the county administrative board. When the County Administrative Board receives an application, it becomes a public document that in itself poses a huge security risk to the person exposed. Animal rights terrorists are not to be played with. I know that, Mr. Old President. From all sides, these keepers are exposed. No matter what they do, it's gonna be hard. It will be difficult to find motivators at last. Food production is affected in Sweden. Swedish lamb industry is small-scale. Today, there are 33 ewes on average, spread over some 8,000 farms. And it's decreasing. Many are afraid of predator attacks and simply do not want to expose their animals or themselves and their family to such trauma. Nor is profitability seen as the costs of fences are too high. Sure, you get 50 kroner per meter in contributions to predator-repellent fences, but to be honest, it is not enough. By the end of the year, we're out of money. And why are there so many differences in compensation between, for example, a sheep and a run-down reindeer? It is not justifiable to have a predatory policy and a management in which domestic animal husbandry is significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations are not taken into account.
i-LEABmUzarHaSwR5EetgTAR	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for your questions! For me, we need to find a good balance. We have several goals to achieve. I believe, for example, that the Moderates have no other objective than to comply with Parliament's stated objectives or the demands that the EU places on us. But with that said, we should of course have good and functioning food production, and we also want to increase livestock production. It is part of the food strategy. Happily, we can also see that people in Sweden are buying more and more Swedish. The Swedish products, the good food, are increasing in relation to other things, especially when it comes to meat, which is positive. Imports are getting smaller. If the government cares? Yes, of course we care about all these questions. We care about a living countryside. We care about the anxiety that can be felt where predatory attacks have taken place. We care about those who are affected. That's why we have the V illskadecenter. That is why we have increased the compensation that was previously 80% to 100%. That is why we have preventive measures. But we also want to see this balance. When it comes to green industries, the ambition is absolutely that we should have more climate-smart green jobs in rural areas, while at the same time having our predators that we should manage. That is also what Alexandra Anstrell says. The administration is regionalised, and I think we share the view that this is a good thing. It is regionally known what it looks like. It's regional decision-making. It is regionally determined whether you need to have a licence hunt to see a problem with our predators, in this case the wolf.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-82	Mr. Old President! We Moderates think it is important that we follow Parliament's decision of 170 – 270 wolves. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now largely free to set the minimum number of wolves in Sweden. The decisions taken by Parliament are therefore circumvented. We are still the highest decision-making congregation in Sweden. I think it's strange. Now I wasn't there in 2012, but I've read on in the bill. The Parliament then decided on an interval of 170 to 270 wolves, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was asked to return with a specific figure in between – in between – because it was claimed that the EU wanted a specific figure and not an interval. I read from the report that, after Parliament's consideration of the matter, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will, according to the Government, be given the task of assessing where the reference value is within the proposed ranges. ..................................................... The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency did not follow its mission but fell on the number 270. In my world, 270 is not a number between 170 and 270, but is the maximum in the range. If it's going to be right at the end, it has to be right from the start, and it didn't happen here. In the bill it was said that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should continue to work with the genetic enhancement, primarily to facilitate the movement of naturally immigrated wolves to the wolf population in Central Sweden. Thus, they were not assigned to run their own race. But of course, the government gave them almost a safe lease when it commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to update the analysis on a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. Here, too, the government says that they should update the analysis, not update the parliamentary decision. Mr. Old President! It actually feels like the government is trying to blame itself, partly on an old bill, partly on the EU and partly on the county boards. In fact, it is the government that does not ensure that Parliament's decisions are complied with, nor does it seem to have any intention of raising the issue democratically. I find it strange that the Minister is standing in this Chamber and saying that the measures being taken today contribute to greater security when so many people testify to the contrary. By the way, did you know that the wolf is a very good swimmer? It also runs very quickly and efficiently. During one night, it can safely travel 70 kilometres. Since the wolf is so mobile, it can live and hunt in an area as large as 200 - 2,000 square miles [200 - 2,000 sq km]. One way to protect oneself against wolf is to use these predator-repellent fences, for which you get a little subsidy, which, however, is usually not enough for a full year. During the month of August, a wolf has ravaged Shundareviret and attacked and killed many sheep. The County Administrative Board urges owners who have property against the water to secure their pastures, when one of the wolf attacks took place in a pasture house located on an island. If you want to secure the pastures against the water, it will be a bit strange here in Stockholm. In Haninge, where I live, 75% of the municipality is made up of water. The Stockholm archipelago is Sweden's largest and the second largest in the entire Baltic Sea. Does the Minister think it reasonable for an animal keeper to have to fence the waterline into all pastures in order to avoid predator attacks? How does it rhyme with beach protection rules, common law and the like?
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-93	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for a lot of good questions! I just said in my speech that the Government Office is preparing the important issue of confidentiality. It is just as Alexandra Anstrell said that such confidentiality may be needed; that is quite right. A population of 170 – 270 wolves is, among other things, about the EU's Species and Habitats Directives. We shall have a favourable conservation status. I said in my speech that in order for us to have a population, a Finnish or Russian wolf needs to enter every five years. We estimate that the wolf's number is now higher than 270, but on January 2, next year, license hunting starts on 33 wolves. I cannot answer whether the territory that Alexandra Anstrell is talking about is in this, because I do not know. It is the county administrative boards that make the assessment and themselves specify which license hunt they want to be done. These are not easy questions. It is about being able to keep our big predators while we want green industries and rural development with increased livestock production. We also want to see an increased number of green climate-smart jobs and an open landscape. You should be able to live, work and live in the countryside and throughout the country. So the questions are not easy. We must start from what we have committed ourselves in the European Union to do, that is, have a favourable conservation status for our large predators. I do not think there is anyone in this House who does not want us to have large predators in Sweden. However, it should of course be a population that has a conservation status and that works. Until we have it, we'll have the number we have.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-98	Mr. Old President! The question is really why the government does not want to address this in the Riksdag, where we have previously decided on an interval. In this way, we can agree on and determine the number of wolves we should have in the country. But obviously the government doesn't. When wolves move around farms bordering a waterline, as they like to do, not least here in the Stockholm area, they are encouraged to fence in even against the waterline or at least lay ropes with flags of a few meters out into the water to deter the wolf. I don't know if it works. But even if it's just about ropes with flags in the water, it's not really inviting if you come and want to throw anchor at an island. Are we supposed to fence the entire waterline near or near Vargrevir? How does the Minister view this when she weighs this together with open landscapes, beach protection rules, public rights and rural development? Does the Minister intend to take any measures to secure the archipelago residents of Stockholm County against swimming wolves who may attack? Nor can one fail to be curious about how it would work with electric fences right by the water and what happens if there are waves. Mr. Old President! The Swedish parliament has adopted a food strategy that clearly indicates that food production will increase. This requires more people to start and expand their animal production. However, the degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden is now decreasing. More and more of the lamb that we eat comes from another country. Only 29 percent of the lamb we eat is produced in Sweden. In about ten years it has fallen by quite a lot. In the early 1990s, Sweden's farmers produced 75 per cent of the country's food. Today we are considerably more Swedes, but we do not produce any more food. So the stakes are not working.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-103	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for your great commitment to these issues! The government is working to ensure that predator management is compatible with our EU legal obligations and other national targets. At the same time, we are working on the food strategy, which is extremely important for creating profitability throughout the food chain, from primary production to exports. We, like the honourable Member, naturally want to see more livestock production – that is what the food strategy also says – and not less. In addition, green industries are needed to achieve sustainable development and growth throughout the country. These questions, as I said, are not easy. We have several goals to relate to. We want the big predators, but at the same time we want the green industries. We must make it work, and we do so with the help of, for example, Wildlife Centres and Licensing, when needed.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-106	Mr. Old President! Viktor Wärnick has asked me what measures I intend to take to secure freedom of art and culture. Viktor Wärnick has also asked how I intend to act to strengthen independence, in relation to the public, for artists and cultural creators. Freedom of culture is a fundamental principle of cultural policy. A free and independent cultural sector is fundamental to any successful democratic society. The national cultural policy objectives adopted by the Council of Europe state that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. This is achieved by organising cultural governance on the basis of the arm's length principle. This means that government instructions and support schemes are regulated so that politicians do not make decisions on artistic content in the distribution of cultural support or decide what scientific perspectives are used in the work of cultural heritage institutions. The principle of arm's length is important to establish and protect, and also to strengthen and develop. It is a high-priority cultural policy issue for me as Minister of Culture. This particular ambition is why the government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis to review how the principle of arm's length distance is respected in practice, which resulted in the report So free is art. Mr. Old President! It is very valuable that we have now received this urgent report which shows how complex cultural policy is to be implemented. Both state authorities and regions and municipalities are covered by the report, and the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has made recommendations for action at all levels. Based on the report, the Government has begun work on an analysis of what can be done to further strengthen the freedom of art and culture. Of course, artistic freedom should apply regardless of which politicians govern cultural policy. The Museum Act, adopted by the Riksdag in 2017, is a clear position on the freedom of culture and an important structural protection for museums and their status as independent knowledge institutions. The law was created in the light of the Government's identification of a risk that museums and cultural institutions might be subjected to attempts at undue political governance. Such examples can be found both in Sweden and abroad. The ability of cultural creators and artists to work under reasonable conditions is also a prerequisite for the practical functioning of artistic freedom. Creating better conditions for artists to live on and develop their artistry is therefore one of the government's most important cultural policy priorities. In March, the Government sent the Swedish Parliament the Swedish Policy for Artists' Conditions. The letter gives a picture of artist policy based on what has now been done and is being done to improve the conditions for artists. This concerns efforts to strengthen artistic freedom but also reforms to strengthen the economic and social conditions of artists. The government has also strengthened government support for artists and cultural creators in several rounds. During the pandemic, in addition to general crisis support, the government has decided on the distribution of support to artists and cultural actors. During 2020 these amounted to SEK 2.5 billion and in 2021 to more than SEK 3.5 billion. Before 2022, the government is investing SEK 940 million in the re-launch of free culture. All these elements are important to ensure the livelihood and thus independence of artists. Artistic freedom is fundamental in cultural policy and also as a democratic principle. And more needs to be done. The government intends to return with more measures.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-115	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to welcome Jeanette Gustafsdotter in her new role as Minister of Culture. It is an important portfolio in the government with issues that affect far more than the majority in this country may experience and believe. I look forward to vigorous debates and constructive talks with the Minister for Culture. Let us begin with this interpellation debate. I would like to thank the Minister for Culture for his reply, although I think that the tempo needs to be increased considerably compared to the measures and considerations set out by the Minister in his reply. The issue of freedom of culture and art is absolutely fundamental in a cultural policy based on the principles of liberal democracy of freedom of expression. The principle of arm's length distance and the words of a free and independent cultural sector must not be merely empty platitudes in the solemn speeches or declarations of government. Too much suggests that this is the case today. I have put the interpellation to the Minister for Culture in the light of the report produced by the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, which was presented this summer, June 10, with the name So Free is the art. It has received far too little attention, in my opinion. The report is frighteningly reading how the public in various ways governs culture and art, in a way that should give rise to powerful reactions and changes in cultural policy. Free art and culture are fundamental elements of our democracy and need to be defended every day. Any tendency to direct and indirect control of these must be curbed. In the light of the present report, it can be observed that, among other things, state grants interfere with artistic freedom in a number of problematic ways. Questions raised in application forms have guided artists to design their work into ideas and content in a certain way in order to appease, for example, the Swedish Arts Council and the Film Institute for the payment of state funds. The report also shows, through a survey, that almost half of the respondents and culturalists have at some point adapted their artistic content without, according to them, increasing the artistic quality, in order to increase the opportunities for receiving grants. One third responds that they have at some point refrained from applying for grants because of the assessment criteria they experience are in conflict with artistic freedom. Thus, it is possible that public opinion today governs art and culture. It's not a distant threat. The steering, the fingers in the jam can, are here and now. It is distressing that this has been allowed to happen. Today it is exactly six months since the report was presented. However, no action has yet been taken, as confirmed by the Minister of Culture's response to my interpellation. The question to the Minister for Culture is therefore: when will the government and the Minister address the issue? Although Jeanette Gustafsdotter is a new government minister, for about ten days, Sweden has had an S-led government since 2014, for over seven years. Lack of time, therefore, can hardly be blamed.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-124	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that Viktor Wärnick has asked me the question now that I am so new. The principle of arm's length is very close to my heart. I come from the Swedish Museums last time, where we produced a report on the distance of the arm and the need for this to really work. Freedom of culture is a fundamental principle of cultural policy. A free and independent cultural sector is fundamental to any successful democratic society. I will now analyse Cultural Analysis conclusions and recommendations based on my role as Minister of Culture. To the extent that we identify ambiguities in the principled approach to artistic freedom and arm's length, we see how they should be clarified and strengthened without, at the same time, risk reducing the opportunity for more people to participate in and work in culture. Cultural analysis highlights a number of conclusions and recommendations. We have those with us now that we are looking at, among other things, the governance of state donors. In so far as there are ambiguities in the principled approach to the freedom and arm's length of art, we will see how we can clarify and strengthen it, without at the same time risking reducing the opportunity for more people to participate in and work in culture. The principle of arm's length in cultural and artistic space is a prerequisite and a starting point for state policy in this area. This means that the government decides on budgetary frameworks, grant regulations, instructions and regulatory letters, but that it is then up to the authority to decide on the allocation of funds. Several of the contributing authorities leave it to the profession, in the form of assessment teams and reference groups, to decide on the individual grant dossiers. The aim of this system is to ensure and protect artistic freedom and to ensure that politicians do not have the power to control the content of culture. I have no views on how the authorities design individual application forms, and the government should not detail how the authorities carry out their activities. If there are ambiguities in the government's mission to the authorities regarding artistic freedom, we have to take it with us, analyse it and possibly handle it in governance. I assume that the authorities have also taken note of the Cultural Analysis report and reflect on the conclusions of their own activities.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-128	Mr. Old President! I understand that Jeanette Gustafsdotter is a new member of the Social Democrats and that the application was submitted only a few days before she was officially appointed Minister of Culture. Who has said that politics needs to be slow? Although the Minister of Culture has not been a member of the Social Democrats for more than a week, social-democratic politics has unfortunately had an instrumental view of culture for a long time, that is to say that it should be used for a higher social-democratic purpose and that culture therefore has no intrinsic value. This approach has been strengthened in recent years, not least since the Social Democrats in the Committee on Culture have been at the forefront of cultural policy, with class analysis as the basis and tools for reducing economic disparities, among other things. This worries me. Such a policy would rather strengthen the de facto governance of art and culture. We know that, even today, there are indirect questions about specific perspectives in the allocation of public funds. This leads to cultural creators and artists adapting their content and practice, contrary to the ideal of artistic freedom. For example, applicants from the Swedish Arts Council and the Film Institute are asked both directly and indirectly about how different so-called horizontal perspectives are integrated. One concrete example is that applicants are asked about and how to integrate a gender equality, LGBTQ, diversity and intercultural perspective in their activities, projects, publications or similar. The question posed in the Swedish Arts Council's application form is interpreted by the applicants, to a large extent, as that the Swedish Arts Council asks for how the perspectives should be integrated into the artistic idea and content. ..................................................... Mr. Old President! It is clear to me that social-democratic and environmental-partisan cultural policy and its legitimate aims have led to what it itself has warned of the alleged ambitions of other parties in the cultural field: political governance that is not compatible with the principles of liberal democracy of freedom of expression. An arm's length distance in rhetoric has become a index finger in practice. For us Moderates, it is important that the government, the Minister for Culture and the Ministry of Culture take strong action against political governance. Firstly, the regulatory letters addressed to the state authorities should be reviewed and the ideal of artistic freedom strengthened and clarified. That power has the government, and it can be used immediately. Secondly, the funding of culture should be broadened, i.e. more private funds should be made possible in the cultural sector. A reduced dependence on public funds also reduces the risk of adjustments to artistic content and that politics can govern the content of culture and art. The re-launch investigation, which was presented a few months ago and which the Minister for Culture has also mentioned, points to the situation in Sweden today when it comes to more private funding in the field of culture. It is believed that the obstacles to wider funding need to be removed. The study notes that there are currently obstacles, both formal and in the form of a lack of tradition in Sweden, to wider private funding of culture. Unfortunately, the investigation was forbidden by the government to make proposals in this area, but we Moderates believe that it is crucial for the future financing of culture that it should be broadened and that a model should therefore be developed, for example, for tax deductions for gifts to the cultural sector, with the aim of safeguarding and enabling a variety of financiers in this area. Here the government misses the chance, I mean, of a double win. Increased freedom of art and culture, while stimulating increased private funding, could be one of the best post-pandemic re-starting measures. My question, therefore, is: what is the position of the Minister for Culture on increasing private funding? And if she is positive, I wonder: When can we expect the government to come back with sharp proposals in this area?
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-138	Mr. Old President! Yes, Viktor Wärnick, you're absolutely right. This can be done quickly in politics, and that is also our goal. The ability of cultural creators and artists to work under reasonable conditions is also a prerequisite for artistic freedom. Creating better conditions for artists to live on and develop their artistry is therefore one of the government's most important cultural policy priorities. In March, the Government sent the Swedish Parliament the Swedish Policy for Artists' Conditions. The letter gives a picture of artist policy based on what has now been done and is being done and what the government wants to move forward to strengthen the artists' conditions. This concerns efforts to strengthen artistic freedom and economic and social conditions. During the pandemic, in addition to general crisis support, the government has decided on the distribution of support to artists and cultural actors. During 2020 this amounted to SEK 2.5 billion, and in 2021 it amounted to more than SEK 3.5 billion. In the budget proposal for 2022, the Government proposes investments of SEK 940 million on the re-launch of free culture. All these elements are important to ensure the livelihood and thus independence of artists. The government's governance of cultural institutions is an issue that is constantly being reviewed and analysed to ensure that it is as effective as possible. Last time it was done in the Swedish National Audit Office's report from 2019, The Art of Control – the government's governance of the cultural area's institutions. It's not all bad. There, the Swedish National Audit Office concluded that the government's governance in the field of culture meets the criteria that the Riksdag has set for governing government activities. The review concludes that the government's governance is clear and result-oriented. Governance has a long-term perspective and is well documented. This facilitates Parliament's possibilities for control and transparency. Artistic freedom is fundamental in cultural policy and also as a democratic principle. More needs to be done. The government intends to return with more measures.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-144	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that the Minister for Culture feels a great commitment to freedom of art and culture, but now it is a matter for the government to move from words to action. That it has been six months since the critical report So free art is presented without the government doing more than starting an analysis and intending to return does not actually impress. With nine months left until election day, there is no time for the new Minister of Culture, I mean, to wait with this. Measures to restore the arm's length principle must be taken as soon as possible. And, as I said, changes in the regulatory letters to government authorities are a wise first step. We Moderates have put sharp proposals on Parliament's table both on freedom of art and on the future and wider funding of culture. The Minister for Culture and Social Democrats are happy to support them when they are to be discussed in the Committee on Culture and then here in Parliament. Mr. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for Culture for this debate. I can guarantee that we Moderates will also continue to work towards safeguarding and restoring the principle of arm's length distance and for a variety of funding bodies in the field of culture. I can also guarantee that we will put the government under a roll-over on the delivery of the fine words in the big speeches. It is action that counts for the important cultural industry and all the fantastic cultural workers around this country, just as it is for all of us. See you on these issues.
i-WbsqE62AvHU5zWi3mCQoaA	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Viktor Wärnick, for your commitment to this extremely important issue! And thank you for a fruitful debate on this interesting subject! Culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. This has been stated by the Riksdag in the national cultural policy objectives. Freedom of culture is a fundamental principle of cultural policy. The principle of arm's length is important to establish and protect – and also to strengthen and develop. It is therefore gratifying that we now have the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis report with us in this important work in the future. It is a high priority for me as Minister of Culture. In working on this issue, it is important that we see it in all its complexity. It is of the utmost importance that the government's governance of cultural policy is designed in such a way that we do not control the artistic content. At the same time, publicly funded cultural policy shall promote equal rights and opportunities for participation in cultural life. This is also in line with the objectives decided by the Riksdag. As Minister of Culture, it is my role to create good conditions for cultural activities and artists to operate throughout the country and to ensure that art benefits more people. The ability of cultural creators and artists to work under reasonable conditions is also a prerequisite for artistic freedom. The government is therefore working to strengthen both economic and social conditions through a number of initiatives. During the pandemic, when art and culture were particularly hard hit economically, the government has done more in addition to general crisis support. All these elements are important to ensure the livelihood and thus independence of artists.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-154	Mr. Old President! Cassandra Sundin has asked me whether I and the government intend to take any steps to support efforts to preserve the intangible heritage and biodiversity of pasture habitats. There are many valuable pasture environments in Sweden and as many as 200 active farm farmers in the country, from Uppland in the south to Lapland in the north. Fäbod environments are a valuable cultural heritage, and as such they are a broad source of knowledge and information about human life throughout history. They are important cultural environments with historic buildings that contribute to the cultural landscape, where biodiversity is also protected. Fäbodkulturen i fäbodsområden is a living intellectual heritage that includes knowledge of everything from animals and nature, forest grazing and settlements to food, stories, customs, tools and music. The Cultural Environment Act's portal clause states that d et is a national concern to protect and nurture the cultural environment. Responsibility for the cultural environment is shared by everyone. Both individuals and authorities must show consideration and care for the cultural environment. There are national cultural environmental goals that have been decided by the Riksdag and that apply since 2014. The cultural environments give us knowledge and perspectives on history and society. It aims to preserve cultural environments, but also to use and develop them. The National Heritage Office is the national authority responsible for cultural heritage issues. Together with other authorities, the National Heritage Office responds to compliance with laws and regulations in the area and to the fulfilment of the national objectives of cultural environmental work. With regard to the intangible cultural heritage, the Institute for Languages and People's Memories coordinates work in Sweden with the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Intellectual Heritage. The work is organized in a node organization consisting of five node authorities with networks of institutions, civil society actors, practitioners and others. Fäbod kultur is included in the Institute for Languages and People's Remembrance List Living Traditions – L evindetraditioner.se – which addresses examples of intangible cultural heritage in Sweden. The list is a good tool to highlight the diversity of the intangible cultural heritage in Sweden. However, it is vital for the intangible cultural heritage to live on to future generations that there are practitioners who pass on the knowledge and skills. Many actors contribute in different ways to the conservation of the pastures and the pastures, not least in the daily work of agriculture and forestry in pasture environments that contribute to preserving the biodiversity of the landscape. There are now several forms of support that strengthen the pasture environment and the farm culture, including a government contribution to cultural environment care. Today it amounts to just under SEK 260 million per year and is of great importance for the cultural environment work throughout the country. For the years 2022 – 2024, the Government strengthens this appropriation by an additional SEK 10 million per year. There is also a government contribution of SEK 9 million to cultural heritage work that can be made to work with intellectual heritage. This strengthened the government by SEK 20 million for 2021 due to the pandemic's consequences for non-profit cultural heritage activities. All in all, there are many forces that together make it possible to preserve and keep alive the cultural heritage of the pastures and the farm culture to be passed on to future generations. This living cultural heritage also benefits biodiversity. The government's services through its agencies and contributions provide good support in this important work.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-160	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The main reason why I have raised this issue several times in different contexts and through different channels is that we see what conditions actually exist for the relevant actors in the matter. Fäbodbruket has been crucial for food, animal husbandry and food in Sweden's history, especially in the northern half of our country. The enthusiasts who today carry out the incredibly important work of preserving, managing and bringing to life our pasture environments must be treated with respect and the support of society. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. In recent years we have been able to see how farmhouses that are still in use are opposed in different ways and from different bodies, including municipalities and state authorities. Two cases that I myself noticed a little extra are Myhrbodarna in my constituency Jämtland and Karl-Tövåsen in Dalarna. I have visited both of these and seen with my own eyes what fantastic activities are being carried out. Due to various registrations for serving, the municipality's construction and environmental committee decided a couple of years ago to close Myhrbodarna's operations. Experienced and knowledgeable in the food industry called this absurd, which I fully agree with. The Construction and Environment Board claimed that uncertainties were due to a high workload on the municipality and staff changes. Instead of sorting out what has happened back in time, however, the municipal officials chose to report to the police the person who carries out the activity. After many protests, however, the decision was cancelled later. Karl-Tövåsen's pasture is k-marked and unique. It has been in use since 1663. It doesn't have any power or cell phone coverage. On the basis of these conditions, the operators of the activities applied for exemption from the cash register. The Swedish Tax Agency has previously granted exemptions for mountain cottages that lack electricity and mobile coverage. This pasture has the same conditions, except that it has a k-marked and also has a special position in society. The IRS's proposal for a solution was solar panels on the roof. Of course, the county administrative board said no to this, because the pasture is k-marked. When the owner was refused her first application, she called the administrator in Gothenburg, who was then asked if she knew what a pasture is. The administrator replied: No, but it doesn't matter. The fact that officials are not even interested in acquiring knowledge of a matter in which they are to make decisions that are crucial to people is remarkable and symptomatic of how this issue is handled in society. After a long and drawn-out dispute came to the end of the court's judgment: It is unfair to request a cash register in the pasture. Thus, even this business finally won. There are several consequences of processes like these two. In addition to the anxiety and sorrow of traders themselves, people are also discouraged from farming. We cannot afford to treat those who care for our cultural heritage in this way. Society must be supportive over government on such issues.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-169	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that even this interpellation came to me among the first. I have, as I said earlier, my background from the Swedish Museums, and in connection with that I have worked closely with the Swedish Local Development Association. I have personally met these enthusiasts several times, and I am also pleased that Cassandra Sundin has this personal commitment. It is crucial for the intangible cultural heritage to live on to future generations that there are practitioners who pass on the knowledge and actions. Many actors contribute in different ways to the conservation of the pastures and the pastures, not least in the daily work of agriculture and forestry in pasture environments that contribute to preserving the biodiversity of the landscape. There are now several forms of support that strengthen the pasture environment and the farm culture, including the state contribution to the conservation of the cultural environment. Today it amounts to just under SEK 260 million per year and is of great importance for the cultural environment work throughout the country. For the years 2022 – 2024, the Government strengthens this appropriation by an additional SEK 10 million per year. There is also a government contribution of SEK 9 million to cultural heritage work that can be made to work with intellectual heritage. This strengthened the government by SEK 20 million for 2021 due to the consequences of the pandemic for non-profit cultural heritage activities. It pains me to hear what Cassandra Sundin has described, but together there are many forces that make it possible to preserve and keep alive the cultural heritage of the pastures and the pasture culture to be passed on to future generations. This living cultural heritage also benefits biodiversity. What the government provides through its authorities and contributions provides good support in this important work.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-175	Mr. Old President! The Minister referred here to the role of the National Antiquities Office in the matter. That's right, of course. But the fact remains that obviously this is not working satisfactorily at all levels. The National Antiquities Office has regulations and regulations to deal with, and thankfully we do not have government in our country. The issue is affected not only by laws and rules, but by priorities and how to communicate the value of the matter from governmental quarters. This question is also not just about crowns and crowns. As the Minister pointed out, there is financial support to be sought through various bodies, and that is, of course, great. But what is the benefit of financial support if, at the same time, one is deprived of the right to carry out one's activities at all? I fully agree that a key condition for this cultural heritage to be nurtured and preserved is that people actually want to do so. Then it is especially important not to discourage people from getting involved when the problems that exist are also visible. Another aspect that can play a role purely in terms of value is that when I have debated cultural heritage issues with government representatives in the past, the tone has often been present and future. Of course, this is an important aspect for a conservation purpose, but we can't inherit anything from the future unless you have a time machine in the department, and I have no idea. Apart from the conservation objective, the cultural heritage we have today is not dependent on the future, but the future depends on the cultural heritage. The government often talks about creating a sustainable policy for the future, but it is difficult to create a sustainable management of future cultural heritage if we do not start by managing what we already have. In addition to an intangible cultural heritage worth preserving, the living pastures are also important tourism industries for the respective local communities and are another way of using our land, keeping animals and bringing small-scale and sustainable food production on to future generations. Fäbodbruket also benefits, as has been said, increased biodiversity as forest grazing animals seem positive for plants, fungi and insects in particular. It is also about exploiting unused resources in forests and mountain areas. Local food production of high quality is one of many positive side effects. Furthermore, farmers are in many cases self-employed who need to have good conditions for their activities, just like any other entrepreneur. Fäbodbruket and fäbodkulturen are nothing we can take for granted today. If it is not actively protected, supported and managed, it will become even more impoverished and ultimately a thing of the past.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-181	Mr. Old President! As Cassandra Sundin says, there are many forces that together – these amazing enthusiasts – make it possible to preserve and keep alive the cultural heritage of the pastures and the pasture culture to be passed on to future generations. Just as Cassandra Sundin also mentioned, it is about past, present and future to preserve cultural heritage. Through the various forms of protection as well as the state contributions to cultural conservation and non-profit cultural heritage work, there are also good conditions for working with the country's pastures. The most important tools for preserving the farm environments, both their physical and their intangible values, are the non-profit forces. There are thousands of associations and active networks that are involved in the pastures, the conservation and continued use of the farm. I would like to mention, for example, the Association of Swedish Fäbodkultur and Utmarksbruk, FSF, which makes a major contribution by monitoring and pursuing the issues of the values of the pastures in many contexts and in different sectors of society.
i-d3f73cd47014e95c-183	Mr. Old President! I note that I and the Minister agree on a part of the matter. However, it is clear that the Swedish Democrats prioritise the area a little higher than the government does. It is a pity that the government relativises cultural heritage issues in some respects. They are, of course, something that is said to protect, but in contrast to contemporary culture, they are often obscured. In order to create a good future, we also need to understand our history and what has made us stand where we stand today. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the Minister, the entire Presidium of Presidents and the Parliament Administration a truly merry Christmas.
i-KeZspxFTvJgi93AZ7xWHMh	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Cassandra Sundin, for a fruitful debate on this important and interesting subject. The government wants to promote a cultural heritage that is preserved, used and developed as it helps to enable a society that offers all people participation, inclusion and equality. Fäbodarna, fäbodkulturen and fäbodbruket are an important part of the cultural heritage. Many actors contribute to maintaining and keeping the farmland and the farm culture alive in order to move on to future generations. Without the work and resources of non-profit forces to preserve, use and develop cultural heritage, many stories would be lost and the knowledge of our society would be inadequate. I believe that there are good conditions for the preservation of intellectual property, cultural heritage and biodiversity in our pasture environments through the various forms of protection and protection that exist, through the state contributions and, not least, through the non-profit actors who maintain these cultural environments that pass on the cultural heritage in their commitment and efforts. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a very committed and important debate. I would also like to take this opportunity, like Mr Cassandra, to wish Mr President-in-Office one and the whole Bureau a really merry Christmas.
