i-555a2b134126692e-14	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 1. We are debating extensions of support measures today. The aid measures for enterprises and employees have long been lined by late notification, slow processing times, late payment and short and shock-proof extensions. This has created great frustration for companies, and it has also made it more difficult for the responsible authorities to obtain the aid payments and the processing of the aid on the spot. After the government got off to a pretty good start in terms of support, it has increasingly turned to shock-like, short and jerky extensions. At the same time, the authorities have not been governed in such a way that payments have come out to hard-working entrepreneurs and employees who do not know if they are able to do it another day. It's kind of like when someone stands on a cliff ledge at an abyss and another person celebrates a rope. You get the rope and start hoisting up, but then it stops on the road and starts hacking. As the strength fails, desperation increases in this situation. I believe, Mr President, that many entrepreneurs are currently in this position. Today we were able to hear the Union speak. They had talked to their professional clubs around Sweden about the situation. Very many companies, not least in the hotel and restaurant industry, now have such significant problems that they do not see a future for longer than a few weeks. The extensions now proposed are insufficient. The Government proposes extensions of lay-off support until April. It also proposes extending the conversion aid until April. It is also proposed that wage costs be raised in the closure aid. At the same time, there is turnover support for individual entrepreneurs. It's only until February. And the commercial companies still cannot even apply for the support that we in Parliament have had to drag the government to implement. Mr President, I would like to This is not good enough. That is why, last week, the Christian Democrats put forward a proposal for a committee initiative to extend all these subsidies at current levels of support until the end of June. In this way, we can give confidence in the future to the companies that are struggling so that they know what is going on. We give the authorities peace of mind so that they can pay out the subsidies. A few days after we tabled the proposal, the government parties returned. That is why we now have an addition to the proposal which will extend short-term lay-offs at current levels until the end of June. However, this does not apply to other business aid. It is hoped that the government parties will have a good explanation for why this aid should not be extended. Our proposal for an initiative is solid. I hope that this part will provide support so that companies and employees can be informed that the aid will remain in place and that the authorities can work to get the application procedure and processing on the spot faster. Otherwise, there is probably a great risk that there will be more bankruptcies and redundancies than necessary. With delayed vaccine deliveries and viral mutations, we see that we will need support measures until and into the summer. It would be good if we could tell you about it right now. Mr President, I would like to I have often mentioned here in the speaker's chair that the short-term lay-off system is not working well for certain sectors. This applies, in particular, to contact industries such as restaurants, hotels and certain trades, which will try to keep their business going and open while keeping their staff laid off. But the lay-off system means paying more for the remaining working hours. This makes it very difficult. It is not adapted for industries such as these. It is primarily adapted for the manufacturing industry and others that can better plan how production should be outsourced. In addition, many temporary employees work in the contact industries. They are not covered in the same way by the lay-off aid as permanent workers. This means that the companies that have now suffered partial closure – with alcohol rules, restrictions and recommendations on how many people can sit at tables and at which tables they can serve – are, after all, referring to short-term aid, lay-off aid, which works so badly for them. This is not good enough. Many would be valorised by down payment, which provides support for wage costs. But since they're only partially shut down, they don't get part of this. We need to do something about this. We had to do something about this a long time ago. In the Committee on Finance, we have now proposed that employers' contributions be removed for restaurants and other contact industries, and this should be done retroactively from the end of the year. In this way, we can lift a cost burden from these companies. This has been done in some other European countries. We believe that this is compatible with the EU state aid framework. We also believe that doing this is practicable, and it would have a major impact on companies' ability to overcome the very tough crisis. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we in the Christian Democrats have been able to push forward proposals that the government must return with improved support for civil society in general. This applies not least to those organisations that tirelessly extend one hand to others but that have had a very tough time in the pandemic. There is now another proposal in the report which is more specific and is aimed at those who organise events, sports races, children's camps and the like. There should be a guarantee from the state that as long as you plan this in a safe way there is a guarantee in the back if you are forced to cancel. In particular, my colleague, Edward Riedl, has worked hard to produce this proposal. We support it and have also been involved in the work. We think this is a good way to ensure that events and exercise runs do not die out and can continue to be arranged. It is therefore a good thing that the report contains such a demand for the government, Mr President. The pandemic goes on longer than we would like. We wish it had gone much faster to get out of it. But we must see that it will take a long time. It requires, I believe, that we give clear information that business support remains until the summer and that we do more to lift costs from those who are currently in deep crisis and who do not really know if they are able to fight for their company and for their employees one more day.
i-555a2b134126692e-30	Mr President, I would like to We have now passed more than 1 million vaccinations in Sweden. Of course, the health and economic effects of rapid and effective vaccination cannot be overestimated. Dose for dose we now ensure that those who need it most get protection against covid-19. And for each dose, more and more people are finally hugging a long - awaited grandmother. I and many others long very much. But the vaccine is also the way out of the economic crisis. Each dose of vaccine is an injection into our economy. There's a light in the tunnel. That said, the situation is still very serious. In the first place, we must hold on and endure to save lives. We're gonna work from home if we can and keep our distance. We need to do so in order to protect our fellow human beings and to facilitate the care staff, who for over a year have worked many and long days to care for the sick. But we're also going to do it to save jobs and businesses. Mr President, I would like to Nearly 600 000 people have been on short-term leave during the crisis. This means that one in ten Swedes of working age has been on short-term leave. Hundreds of thousands of employees have been able to reduce working hours in this way and avoid the risk of losing their jobs. It has, of course, been very important for each individual to be able to maintain their financial security and their clear link to the labour market. It has been important for their families and their children to know that this security exists. Short-term lay-offs have also been important for all those companies who know that they can quickly come back and get the wheels started when the crisis turns. In January, support was strengthened so that companies had the opportunity to lay off their employees to 80 per cent from January to March. Let's extend this support. This means that until 30 June this year companies will continue to be able to lay off at 80%, and the state will then account for up to 75% of the wage cost. In addition, we provide more resources to the Swedish Agency for Growth to meet demand and shorten processing times through more administrators and the development of new system support. In order to help companies reset and ensure that they can overwinter during the crisis, we have also introduced conversion aid. Companies can receive compensation through the Swedish Tax Agency if they have had at least 30 per cent of their turnover compared to 2019. The conversion aid is also being extended for the period March and April 2021. The subsidy rate will continue to be 90 per cent for small enterprises and 70 per cent for larger companies. At the beginning of the year, the Riksdag decided on a new pandemic law that allows the government to shut down activities to limit the spread of infection. In the event of such closure, financial compensation shall, of course, be paid for the activities that need to be closed down. That is why we have introduced reinforced conversion aid. Companies can receive compensation for up to 100% of their fixed costs in case of closure. Today, we are also deciding that wage costs should be included in that compensation. Since the pandemic came to Sweden, the government has been very clear: money may not, will not and should not stand in the way of preventing the spread of infection. Perhaps the most effective means of preventing the spread of infection is rapid and effective vaccination. That is why we are today taking the decision to raise the Public Health Agency's loan framework to 11 billion in order to finance agreements with vaccine developers. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of two things. The first is that it is important that we take responsibility in this work for treating taxpayers' money seriously and with deep respect. They are hard-earned and paid to the Treasury to make the most of it. The second is that it is always quicker to say something than to do anything. I know that a lot of people are working hard in health care, school and many other activities during the crisis. There is also a government official and civil servant in our agencies who are working very hard to make it work. It tells us that we should be better equipped for the next crisis and ensure that the systems are in place. Last but not least, I would like to say something about the announcement that we are deciding on here today. It is an event support to culture, sport and civil society. Organizers planning for events shall receive compensation for loss of ticket revenue if their arrangements cannot be held as planned. In our specific opinion, we state that we really do also see this need. We agree that sport, civil society and culture need crisis support in order to be able to plan long-term. We want all organisers in these sectors to be able to restart their activities and events. However, we would like to stress how important it is for this re-launch to take place in an infectious manner. Even this summer, after hopefully reaching the vaccine target, there will have to be further restrictions. Not everyone will be vaccinated. There are also, of course, a lot of difficulties with this support. These, of course, should the government do their best to cope. However, the design of EU rules can influence how we need to design these rules in order for them to be effective and quickly put in place. A review of state aid rules risks taking a very long time. Mr President, I would like to The crisis is still far from over. The spread of infection is at high levels in several parts of the country. Many employees are concerned about their future livelihoods, and several companies and entrepreneurs are still struggling to get their businesses going. We went into this crisis very strong a. Thanks to years of responsible economic policy, we had 100 000 more employees in welfare and the lowest public debt since 1977. With today's decision, we are adopting this year's fifth amending budget, with new measures to ensure vaccination and help companies overwinter during the economic crisis. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, we have been able to use the strength of our economy to take Sweden through the crisis, while at the same time equipping ourselves for a future in which Corona does not characterize our existence. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-555a2b134126692e-44	Mr President, I would like to I thank Åsa Westlund for her speech. I have two questions. The first question concerns something that Åsa Westlund himself touched on in her speech: hardworking officials in our agencies. I share her picture. One reason why we Christian Democrats have argued for now to give notice of the extension of all aid until the summer is that it will be easier for the authorities to plan. With better planning conditions, it will be easier to manage these subsidies in a good way. This is also a reason why the government parties – although not proposed by the government – are now proposing an extension of short-term work; it makes it easier for the Swedish Agency for Growth. The question then is what the strong reasons are for not extending the other subsidies to desperate entrepreneurs and giving a clear message to the authorities that we are working on these subsidies until the summer and seeing such a need. This is based on a turnover step. If the turnover step does not exist, the aid will also not be paid out. In this way, there is regulation in the form of aid. The first question, then, is: What are the main reasons why you are not making that statement here today? The second relates specifically to the contact industries, for which lay-off aid works rather poorly. The government has now said that, should they suffer from forced closure, they will receive compensation for wage costs. I think that's very good. There is too much difference between being partially shut down and the support they can get then and being completely shut down and the support they can get then. How does the government intend to deal with it? Short-term work support works rather poorly when trying to keep their activities open.
i-42ij28rAL98FVU9TW8VfeA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for the question! These supports are a little different in their construction. If I'm going to be very serious here, there are a lot of people who have waited a long time to hear from the Swedish Agency for Growth. It's in the middle of a system shift. We know that the system will be in place within a week. If we can take the decision today, it can at the same time include all this, that is to say that companies can apply once and not several times and that it only needs to be dealt with once. There are huge gains in time when we are making the decision here today for short-term leave support. Moreover, there are not the same problems with regard to the possibility of planning their activities as with early notification of turnover and conversion aid. Nevertheless, there is a risk of planning your accounts in such a way as to maximise the benefits of conversion and turnover aid if you can know in advance exactly what month you receive the aid. That has been one of the reasons why we have often given answers in the near future with regard to these subsidies. Other reasons for this, of course, are that we follow developments closely. You're supposed to have support when you need it. But we must also adjust the level of aid according to what the spread of the disease looks like, given that we should take responsibility for taxpayers' money. Having said that, the government will of course return with new information because we see a continued high spread of infection in society. The government will give a message when the government gives a message. So far, there is no news about the things that Jakob Forssmed raised as recently as last week.
i-555a2b134126692e-53	Mr President, I would like to We know that the government will give a message when it gives a message. That's the problem. That news has come very late. It's been twitchy. For some forms of enterprise, the information has not come at all, but it has been the Riksdag that has been able to push forward the support. This applies to individual firms and to aid to partnerships, for example, which are not even searchable. Does Åsa Westlund mean that the support for an individual firm should not be longer than until February? If she doesn't mean it, you should be able to give that message now. I respect this with the risk of accounting problems and such things and that there may be fraud in the systems. But the government is already giving notice in advance. It provides information on the conversion aid for the month of April. In so far as one has had such a principle, one has abandoned it. I do not see, then, that the heavy reasons for not being able to give this information now remain. I think it would create more of a belief in the future and a feeling that there is support left. Companies should not have to think about whether or not support is needed. I think Åsa Westlund shares my assessment that the crisis will last a few more months. It will not be over by the end of April. I think that was one of the reasons why Åsa Westlund made a wise proposal, which we pushed on, to extend short-term lay-offs. It would be good for authorities and companies to give that information. The second question is: What should be done for restaurants? That's where the short-term support doesn't really work. What does the government see? We have proposed reducing employers' contributions in these sectors on the SNI code that the government has already defined for the rental subsidy so that they would receive reduced employers' contributions from the end of the year. It would lift wage costs and make it more possible for them to operate.
i-FoWQ7EWwhcdHwDyTVsEmgD	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Jakob Forssmed, for the question! With all due respect, it is quite easy to be an opposition and say that you want something a few days before the government succeeds in doing anything. It is rather strange that Jakob Forssmed has not been even more proactive in opposition when it is so easy to just say something and then it is clear. It takes longer to do for a government; that's just the way it is. I have good confidence that the government will continue to deliver important information at the pace needed during the pandemic. As far as contact industries are concerned, it is a rather naive proposal that the Christian Democrats make – that we should reduce employers' contributions for broad groups of companies in the contact industry. What are contact industries? Is it McDonald's, who is doing very well during the crisis, or is it the other one? They are also part of the group for which Jakob Forssmed wants to reduce the employer's contribution. It's not accurate support. It would benefit many who are doing well at the same time as it would not benefit everyone for whom it is doing badly. Then I prefer to have the clear conversion and turnover support one, which gives the most to those who need it the most. We also see that the restaurant industry is among those who receive the most from the support the government has in place.
i-555a2b134126692e-61	Mr President, I would like to Let me first address all of you who continue to fight in the Swedish health care system, to all of you who work in the care of the elderly and to those who go to work because you have to. It is engineers who make sure that water comes out of the tap, staff in the shop that makes sure we can go shopping and she drives the bus. It is all those who have to make sure that society works and who continue to go to work. Many thanks to all of you! As I have said many times before, I would also like to thank all of you who have the opportunity to stay home and do most things from home. You're helping us to get less infection in society. We must continue to help keep the spread of the disease down. There are alarming signals coming from some of our regions where young patients are seen entering our emergency wards and then also being hospitalized with oxygen. They are severely ill young, seemingly previously healthy, people. We have to help each other. We have to hold on, and we have to hold on. It's been a year, and it's hard. Living that way means that you can't spend time the way you want with family or friends. It's hard. The vaccine is hopefully what will allow us to come back to some kind of normality after this. But again, we do not know. We hope, and of course we shall hope for the best, Mr President. But we must also continue to plan for the worst, because we do not know. I'm trying to think back to this time last year when it was declared a pandemic, but we still knew very little. Most experts said: This is probably over long before summer. The most negative said: By summer it will probably be over. All those experts were wrong. We know very little about how long this is going to last. Let's hope for the best. Let's hope for the vaccine. But let us also plan that things may get worse. Mr President, I would like to What we are deciding on here today is crisis support, which is largely what the Moderates and other parties in the opposition have developed and pushed for. Now we are extending and strengthening some of those subsidies. That's good, because it's necessary. The crisis is based on health and life. The second part of the crisis is that jobs and businesses are being knocked out, or are at risk of being knocked out if we do not get the subsidies in place. From the first day of the crisis, we have decided from the Moderates that we should work constructively. We're gonna work on it like we had all the responsibility for this country. Many parties in the Swedish Parliament have worked exactly that way. They have taken responsibility, they have been constructive and they have tried to get these things in place. I can only agree with my colleague Jakob Forssmed's earlier statement here from the speaker's seat. From the beginning it worked pretty well in the spring. The government was quite responsive. Unfortunately, that has become worse. This takes a long time to get support on the ground and a long time to correct the shortcomings and errors that arise. What is perhaps the biggest problem today is not just the form of aid, but actually that companies that need these subsidies and who are struggling do not have access to them. It's too long processing times. Not least with regard to short-term lay-off aid, Mr President, we are today meeting entrepreneurs who are waiting for information. They are therefore waiting for information from the autumn as to whether they are even eligible for the aid. The construction of this support aims, as previous speakers have mentioned, to ensure that people do not lose their jobs. They should not lose their livelihood, and they should remain in contact with the labour market. In this way, the State will help to support companies so that they can retain their staff. The government takes the large part of the cost of maintaining staff in these companies. However, companies in the most affected sectors will have to wait five, six, seven and, worst of all, eight months to find out if they are entitled to the aid. The procedure may not take that long. What we are seeing now, and what is reported in the media, is that people lose their jobs and companies fail. It takes too long to get the subsidies. The worst thing in this, Mr President, is that when some companies have waited so long for aid, they are insolvent and have to make a balance of checks. When you do so, and the share capital is up, you are also retroactively disqualified from the aid, which means that the time taken to deal with the aid means that companies fail and are not even eligible for the aid. That, Mr President, is completely unreasonable. We can't have that. We Moderates took an initiative around Christmas to speed up the payments of emergency aid. It was not supported by enough parties in this Parliament. Today, the Moderates have submitted a new proposal for a guarantee whereby the Swedish Agency for Growth, which is the managing authority, is given one month to deal with the aid. If you are unable to give a reply within a month, the aid will be paid out, and then we will have to recover the money retroactively if it turns out that there has been cheating – combined with tougher penalties for those who deliberately cheat with the corona support. Mr President, I would like to It is not enough that the Center Party and the Liberals buy full-page ads in the newspapers and are concerned about this. That is good, and I know that both the Center Party and the Liberals are parties that basically care about small businesses, but it is not enough to buy full pages and talk about the problem. Now comes another proposal to resolve this seriously. What is in this supplementary amending budget is a little extra money for some additional administrators. It won't solve the problem. I hope that my colleagues from the Center Party and the Liberals will not claim that any more administrators will solve the problem of extremely long processing times. We need to change this fundamentally if we seriously care about small businesses and if we seriously care about people remaining in their livelihoods in these companies. Mr President, I would like to We are also making decisions today to support culture and sport and civil society. I am very pleased that the Moderates received support for this from the Christian Democrats, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. I would particularly like to thank both Jakob Forssmed and Ulla Andersson, who have contributed and made the proposal even better in many ways. And I am perhaps most grateful to all those cultural, sporting and civil society players who have made it possible for us to have such a good proposal on the ground. Now it is up to the government to do this. The aid should be in place on 1 June. That is the will of Parliament. Other countries, such as Denmark and the Netherlands, have managed to get similar support in place. Basically, it is about many of the popular events in both culture and sport, such as Vätternrundan or Way Out West, taking a very long time to plan. Most often, planning starts at the same time as the festival or the exercise race ends. It is a year of planning and a year of built-up costs. We do not know, Mr President, what the spread of the disease will be even in a few months' time. This means that we must have strong support on the ground to save culture and sport, which I know most of us appreciate in one way or another. Not everyone likes everything. Some of us like some parts of this. But these are important parts of the Swedish people's soul. It's about Vasaloppet, and it's about Sweden Rock. It is about all different parts of Swedish culture, sport and civil society. It's Scouts, camps for children and young people and youth cups – a lot of what a lot of people care about. Now we get support in place, and that's good. The government has done a lot, I'll say, to support both culture and sport. But that is far from enough. That will not be enough if we do not do more, and now there will be strong support on the ground to solve all this. I would also like to thank Mrs Kauraisa very much. I've thanked her before from the speaker's seat. She is a small business entrepreneur in the cultural sector. But what Petra has done is to gather a large part of the various actors, ranging from the Swedish exercise races to the Theatre Association and the Musikersförbundet, and create a platform that has been invaluable to us Moderates, at least when we have produced this proposal. It has made it possible for us to have someone to ball with, and we have got the things we need to do this as well as possible. It feels very fun, and I guess I have to apologize for all the late nights when I have forced you in the various industries to help and come up with input to different parts of this proposal. But now we get it in place, and I say: Finally! It feels really funny, because I know it's needed, and I know it's going to work. Finally, a united parliament is saying yes to this, because the January parties joined at the last Finance Committee meeting. At last, all parties in the Swedish Parliament are behind this, and now it is only necessary for the government to do its part of the job! But I have no doubt, Mr President, that the government will do so, because the signal is now very clear. This will take place until 1 June, and now we will help the popular cultural and sports events to get the support they so badly need. With this, I support the committee's proposal in the report as a whole and thank you.
i-555a2b134126692e-83	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating an additional amending budget – number five in order. As everyone understands and sees, there is a great need for continued support. We have had the pandemic for about a year, and we see that a lot has happened. We have got many powerful crisis packages in place that have been able to save a lot of jobs and a lot of companies. But it is clear that we see that this is not over, so we all understand that we need to have this fifth amending budget. It is notable that this means that we are spending 15 billion in new costs from the state. So it is not a small amending budget that we are discussing and debating today. The light in the tunnel is there. Vaccination is underway, and we understand that everything is entering a more normal position. But we're not there yet. The role of the state is to keep the economy going during this time and to save as many jobs as we can. What we are doing today means that the degression of aid, in particular the short-term lay-off, is being pushed forward because of the current situation. That is what the Center Party thinks is very good, and it means that today's levels remain at least until the last of June. We see that the spread of infection remains at a high level, and we will certainly extend the restrictions for some time. The state needs to play its part, and I am pleased that we are fairly united in politics on this. But it is not only politics that is united, but I also hear a fairly united and coherent economists' corps saying that it is a cheap effort to keep the jobs going through the support that is now available compared to not extending the subsidies. Then we'll be in an even deeper recession. We are therefore very much in agreement on this in Sweden, which makes me happy and strengthens me in the thought we have. We know that emergency aid has been very helpful. As a centre party, I am proud that we have not just stood in the Chamber demanding things and saying that it was too late and too little. We have sat at the negotiating tables and made sure that this has happened. This week I saw a headline in my county of Gotland that said that we now received over 100 million in support of Gotland. It makes a very big difference, of course, and I am proud that the Center Party has been involved in making this big difference. However, promises do not pay bills. It's as simple as that. The support needs to be out now. I must point out that it is unacceptable that the payment process for aid is still so slow. We can't do that from the Center Party. The money really needs to come out now. That is why I am pleased to say that the Swedish Agency for Growth is now receiving even more resources, namely 265 million in the current year, to shorten the processing times by hiring more administrators and developing the necessary system support. That's what you can do. It should have been done a long time before, but it is still the effort that is urgent right now. For me as a dedicated Vasalopper and Gotlandian it is clear what an incredible need there is for major events in both sports and culture. The major events in civil and cultural life carry a great deal of the tourism industry. The announcement that we have come to agree on, and that the Center Party has also supported, about contagion-proof arrangements in which the state can provide a loss guarantee, I think, makes a great deal of sense. That's a good signal to give. I do not think it is the biggest measure we are doing, but I still think it is a very important thing to support. That's why we've done it. I will also discuss the future. This is not just about here and now, but we also need to start thinking about the re-starting after the pandemic. The timing there is very much about when the vaccination will go through. However, we really need to put things in place that not least facilitate the foresight of companies and give them confidence in the future. We need to discuss the re-launch beyond support efforts in the summer: What are we going to do this autumn and especially in 2022? As we see it, a great deal of the simplified regulations that have emerged during the pandemic should be retained. They should be allowed to continue and become permanent. One of the support we have already received is the temporary widening of the reduction in employers' contributions for young people, well into 2023. That decision already exists. It is an example of things that I really think you should continue to work on. We are quite certain that the re-launch, as usual good bourgeois economic policy, is about favouring enterprises, reducing costs and providing good foresight. That's our entrance. We also see that many other countries around Europe are thinking in terms of re-starting and thus providing long-term support. I am thinking, for example, of Germany, which recently extended the aid for reduced VAT rates until the end of 2022. One of the important efforts ahead I think will be to think about restarting and signaling the next steps. Mr President, I would like to I think that today's report has landed in a good compromise. I support the committee's proposal.
i-555a2b134126692e-96	Mr President, I would like to Let me ask my colleague, Lars Thomsson, a question. First of all, I would like to say that it is gratifying that the Centre also feels that these long processing times are not good enough for emergency aid to be paid out. But does the Center Party think that a few more officers are sufficient to solve the problem of having emergency aid paid out so long? How many more handlers are we talking about? How many people are working on this today? How much do the Center Party and Lars Thomsson, Mr President, estimate that we will be able to shorten the extremely long processing times that cause us to lose jobs and businesses? Shortly after Christmas, the Center Party was involved in voting down Moderates' proposals for faster payments through more post-controls combined with much tougher penalties for those who cheat. At that time, Lars Thomsson and I had a discussion, Mr President, where the message was that if there were any better proposals, the Center Party would consider it. Today, the Moderates are putting forward a proposal that both our party leader and our economic-political spokesperson have also been out talking about in the media. We are proposing a guarantee that the Swedish Agency for Growth will pay out the subsidies after four weeks if they have not been managed. Could it not be a reasonable time for an authority to deal with this type of emergency aid? If you can't do that, you have to pay out the money anyway, do post-checks and combine with harsh penalties for those who cheat with the Corona subsidies, because we know that none of us want to see that. I would like an answer to that, Mr President.
i-555a2b134126692e-100	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Riedl for the questions. We fully agree that the current situation where aid is not paid out on time and where there is no timely response is really not good enough. It doesn't pay the bills, as you know. Our effort as a party to cooperate with the government is that we negotiate. What we can do is push for extra funds to deal with this. However, we cannot go in and steer the authorities. Only the government itself does. Had we been in government, we would surely have taken a different and clearer grip on the paying authorities and turned their arm around to make them faster and more focused on that very point, because the situation we have now is not acceptable. But that cannot be done as a cooperation party. You can only do that if you're in government. What we are doing now is spending more money to get more administrators and better system support. I think it actually helps a lot, because that's where it's broken. There have been too few hands, and there has been too little system support. Of course, this would have had to be in place a long time earlier, because then we would not have had to get into this situation. The Center Party is still interested in receiving suggestions for support that works. There are three simple basic rules: support should be rapid, it should be accurate and it should be kept within EU law. These are the support measures we serve. If the Moderates have now found a guarantee variant with a new move through a committee initiative, the Center Party is in favour of considering whether it works according to the three principles I have just mentioned. But it must also work; it must not just be a wish list.
i-555a2b134126692e-104	Mr President, I would like to This is compatible with EU law. This is how the first payment of short-term lay-off aid was made in Sweden. It was one of the points on the Center Party list. Our proposal also means that it will be much faster. Companies eligible for aid will receive the aid within four weeks, at the latest. Today it takes up to eight months. I believe that Lars Thomsson and I can agree that it is absolutely indecent, Mr President. I also believe that Lars Thomsson and the Center Party, and also the Liberals, understand that some additional administrators may possibly influence this on the margin but not much more. It is clear that it gets better every day we can shorten the processing times with, but they are still so long that jobs and businesses are lost along the way. However, I choose to interpret my colleague from the Center Party positively. The Moderates have put forward a proposal that the Swedish Agency for Growth will have one month to pay out the subsidies and check what needs to be checked. If you can't handle it from the state side, you pay out this money. Then you have to do proper post-controls and combine it with much tougher penalties for those who cheat with the corona support. This is done, for example, in Denmark, where penalties for cheating with corona support quadruple. All the pieces requested by the Center Party – all three parts – are met with the proposal put forward by the Moderates, so I hope for the support of the Center Party. Those of you who have companies are welcome to influence both the Center Party and the Liberals to join this proposal. That would allow much faster payments, and we could save jobs and businesses in this country. Thank you for the conversation we had here in the speaker's chair.
i-555a2b134126692e-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the proposal from the Moderates and Edward Riedl. What I've seen came today. So I have not seen what it means and what its effects are; I think the honourable Member will have to accept that. There are, of course, a lot of sensible balances that need to be made when we discuss these issues. We had the same discussion about a month ago. It is a question of whether aid should be examined before or after payment. From what I understand, the Moderates are putting forward a proposal that combines this. We know that the investigation conducted by Strömberg points out that we must stick to having the trial before, because otherwise there is a very clear risk that we will benefit organised crime. This is the risk of paying out support first and check afterwards. We really need to land in that balance. I think it is quite nice that the opposition is making creative proposals. Often it is a bit more of wish lists with proposals that are not feasible, but this may be the case. We'll look it through carefully. After all, it is always the privilege of the opposition to think that everything is too little, too late and too poorly thought out, but let us look at this proposal and see where it goes.
i-555a2b134126692e-114	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you're extra happy. I thought about that when Åsa Westlund began by talking about vaccinations and the desire to hug loved ones. I've actually had to hug my mother for the first time in a year. It was a feeling that really felt, if I say so!
i-555a2b134126692e-115	Vaccination gives hope for the future. Therefore, I think it would be good if Sweden agreed to release the patents for vaccines so that more countries – poor countries – can produce their own vaccine and not be hindered by expensive patents. After all, it is the taxpayers who have been involved to a large extent in financing these patents and vaccines. Having said that, Mr President, I turn to the supplementary amending budget. Saving jobs and companies in the pandemic has been a big and broad political support around, and this has been important and good. Often, just as here today, there have been criticisms of the slow pace of payments. Economically crowded companies are, of course, extremely stressed when the administration is lagging behind. At the same time, it goes without saying that government officials, who have also often been given new jobs, are fighting feverishly to do this as well as possible. We have also been told that aid has not been sufficient – this is despite the fact that this great support has never been seen. It has been provided with money in a way that it has never been done before. It is also the case that the regulations have left a lot to be desired with regard to the principles in force to access the money and to prevent undue payments. These are things that have been revealed as the rush has been very great. With regard to lay-off aid – which is perhaps the most important aid and is currently proposed to be extended, which is a good thing – the regulatory framework states that companies must have had temporary financial difficulties that they themselves have not been able to influence and that they themselves should work to reduce wage costs. The aid may not be used by companies which had received dividends or bonus payments two months before, and the companies may not do so until six months after receiving the aid. This was an initiative by the Left Party in committee, and all parties agreed to impose restrictions on dividends and bonuses. Volvo has in itself complied with these deadlines, but they have paid out 118 million in bonuses to the management, while they have laid off thousands of employees and received over SEK 1 billion in crisis support from the state. Volvo's CEO received 21 million last year through this decision. More than one out of every ten crowns that taxpayers have paid to this company has thus gone to the management's million bonuses. There are 21 million people who have been involved in paying for the disability pensioner, the bus driver, the assistant nurse and the poor pensioner. The bonus payments are justified by the Chairman of the Board by the fact that they were necessary to save the company for the future and to have an incentive system that gives power. Volvo's Chairman of the Board admits that they did not make any moral considerations when deciding on changed bonus terms. After all, the Volvo board in the middle of the pandemic, in May 2020, decided to change the bonus rules so that they became more generous and so that you could get a very large bonus payout even though it was a pandemic. It was even the case that the CEO of Volvo Cars received 14 million more in salary and bonus than the CEO had in 2019. All of a sudden, the bonus regime would apply for six months. Talk about trying in different ways to circumvent regulations and, I would say, showing a lack of respect for taxpayers, to say the least! I would like to say that the actions of the board and the management are indirectly a form of contempt for taxpayers. You stand out of society. Here, taxpayers – hardworking people, sick pensioners and pensioners – stand up and say: We are going to save jobs and businesses in the crisis. Then the management of these companies thinks that you can feast on as if nothing has happened and that you can even withdraw more money than before. Not only have you changed the bonus rules – you also have a Swedish record in dividends. Sandvik, who has recently received taxpayers' support, has also decided on extra large dividends – larger than planned before the pandemic and taxpayers' support. In addition to the ordinary dividend, you should have an extra dividend; it is about 8 billion. Volvo's dividend was SEK 30 billion. Sandvik even departs from its policy to distribute half of the adjusted profit and distributes instead 75 percent. This should, in my view and the Left Party, lead to a change in the rules governing the various business subsidies – short-term lay-off aid and conversion aid. The rules and control of short-term lay-offs and conversion aid should be tightened up, and the government should ensure that these companies are subject to ex post control so that money can be repaid in the event that the companies have not received the aid. That was our proposal in committee. We believe that this applies above all to large companies that have decided on large dividends – extra dividends including bonus payments – to management shortly after the statutory six months have passed. If you have not been entitled to the aid, you must pay it back. But, think, there's no other party that wants to agree to. There is often talk of protecting taxpayers' money. Earlier today we heard Åsa Westlund, and also other party representatives, talk about taking responsibility. Other parties often talk about the need to tighten grant lines and set ceilings for grants, but in the case of private business, apparently neither controls nor stricter regulations should apply even if it looks like the systems are being used. We also believe that the rules for the distribution of profits should be supplemented by a provision on the obligation to notify in respect of the distribution of profits. That is what the authority responsible for the lay-off aid has asked for in order to be able to tighten up controls and see what companies are doing, but the majority of the committee has also rejected this. We have also proposed extending the ban on dividends and the ban on bonuses to one year after the months of support. We believe that this would mean that companies, such as Volvo, might think again about whether to apply for support. After all, 2020 should not be a year that provides the basis for bonuses if support has been received from taxpayers. But no other party thinks like the Left Party. They do not want it to be checked particularly carefully afterwards how the companies have handled the support they have received on the basis of the current regulations. Perhaps I am particularly surprised that the Social Democrats do not agree to this. Surely it can't be that the Social Democrats nowadays think that taxpayers to save jobs should support companies at the same time as bonuses are raised and there are record dividends to shareholders? We expected that the Swedish Democrats would run with the cream in society, but perhaps not that the Social Democrats would do so at this stage. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to mention that the guarantee aid, which is also part of this part of the amending budget, is very good. It is an initiative taken by the Moderates. Edward Riedl, in particular, has done an enormous amount of work to get it right. We and the Christian Democrats have been allowed to influence the design. It is both long-awaited and needed support. These events, as Edward Riedl said earlier, are an important part of our society. All the big races and the youth cups, but also theatre and cultural life, are part of people's lives. It is therefore important that these subsidies have been put in place. Finally, after some resistance, the January parties also supported this. So there is now broad agreement on this. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I would also like to say that a great deal of further action is needed for ordinary people in this crisis. They've fallen behind.
i-555a2b134126692e-133	Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress that the Liberals are not a party of special interest. Furthermore, we do not have a party treasury that allows full-page ads to deal with this crisis. For us, it is a matter of taking action to actually prevent the spread of infection and to ensure that aid comes out to the companies that are currently bleeding. I am very happy to hear that Ulla Andersson has had the opportunity to give a person who is very close to the first hug in a long time. Every person I hear about who gets to hug his loved ones really warms his heart. It shows the light that we have all looked forward to over the past year in the very gloomy darkness in which we have found ourselves. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight the heroic efforts made during the crisis. I am thinking mainly of all the people who work in socially critical activities and who have during the whole crisis made fantastic efforts to support the functionality of society. I think of all the companies that have gone through the worst steel bath and that are having a really tough time right now but that continue to be able to cope. They make impressive efforts by changing their operations as best they can and meeting customers in other ways than in their own stores. For this very reason, in order to continue to secure support for companies and protect jobs, we are here again in the same House and with the same aim of another supplementary amending budget. Mr President, I would like to As colleagues before me have pointed out, this is about extending the period of increased support for short-term work to 30 June. It is also a question of providing more funds to increase the conversion aid and to increase the public health authority's loan framework by 11 billion, so that more vaccine agreements can be signed with operators other than those with whom agreements are currently in place. These measures are necessary, not least because recent restrictions have hit the sectors already bleeding even harder. It should be mentioned that some parts of the economy have actually recovered faster than we could have imagined, not least in the manufacturing industry. Of course, we're all happy about that. Unfortunately, however, it is not possible to say the same thing about the sectors that were most affected in March last year. The restrictions have made their situation worse. Mr President, I would like to In difficult times, the task of politics is to do everything to mitigate a crisis. With the proposal in this report, we will have decided on a total of 17 proposals with proposals for amendments to the budget. Then I have not counted either the spring or autumn budget. I am becoming more and more humble for every amending budget we decide on. And we are likely to have to decide on more measures before the crisis is over. What we're doing is serious, and it's real. We don't have a compass that we can orientate on. Nor does anyone know when the crisis will be over or whether new restrictions will be needed in the near future. We are completely guided by the evolution of the pandemic. It humbles me for the reality we live in. I stand in this Chamber today and replace my party colleague Mats Persson, who is now negotiating the spring budget for change with the government. I am proud that my party has been involved in taking responsibility for Sweden. Together with our partner, the Center Party, we have made a big difference during the crisis. We have secured support for business, businesses, schools, health care, the judiciary, welfare and more. In the autumn budget last year, we also pushed through important tax cuts amounting to 30 billion. Mr President, I would like to Some may think that the Liberals are superfluous in Swedish politics. But it's not always size that matters what you get through. For us, it is a question of pushing through liberal and realistic policies that are needed here and now. The truth is that without us Liberals and without the Center Party, the crisis packages that have been developed would have been poorer on content, and the efforts would have been much leaner. For us, it has been obvious to take responsibility during the crisis and solve problems in people's everyday lives. Above all, however, we have taken responsibility for solving the problems currently linked to the coronapndemine. Unfortunately, the vaccination of the population has not got the start that we had all hoped for. I very much hope that the supply chains can soon start rolling again, so that we can once again press the start button and quickly resume the vaccination of the population. If we are to reopen society, it requires rapid vaccination of all our inhabitants. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say something about the guarantee of support for cultural and sporting activities. Liberals agree that there is a need to continue developing support. We have also agreed to support this guarantee aid. The Parliament has on several occasions agreed on efforts to mitigate the impact on those sectors. We will continue to take responsibility, but we will have to come back to exactly how this is to happen. That is why the government should act urgently so that we can agree on new aid with broad support. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-555a2b134126692e-147	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about Parliament's approval of a comprehensive EU compromise between the EU's 27 Heads of State or Government, which includes how the EU budget should be financed, how the country's membership fees to the EU should be calculated, what discounts Sweden and some other countries should have on the EU membership fee, and the design of a so-called post-pandemic recovery package for the EU. The EU is based on long-term budgets agreed by Member States. The last long-term budget expired at the turn of the year. For several years, Member States have discussed the new long-term budget for the period 2021 – 2027. Several countries want to see an increase in the EU budget, while Sweden and other countries, on the contrary, felt that the budget had to be reduced when the British left the Union. One can easily sum up this as saying that the countries that pay more to the EU than they get back want to reduce the budget and those who are net contributors want to increase it. One of the stumbling blocks has been the large discounts on the membership fee that Sweden and some other countries have had for a long time. Many countries have wanted to abolish these rebates in order to raise more money for the long-term budget. In parallel with discussions on the long-term budget, talks were held in spring 2020 to establish some form of additional support for Member States particularly affected by the pandemic. It wanted the EU to lend money jointly to a huge fund and then to make contributions from this fund to different Member States. A broadly unanimous EU Council in the Swedish Parliament rejected this as an idea and, in the second place, argued that such support should in each case only be based on generous loans and certainly not grants. Last summer, the negotiations entered an intensive phase in which the Heads of State or Government of the European Union gathered to reach a final agreement on the matter. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven had clear mandates from the EU Board to push the line to keep the EU budget down, not least because the British left the EU, to defend the Swedish rebates and not to accept that the recovery package would be based on grants but only on loans to Member States. The result was like that. The EU budget increased, which is remarkable given that the British have left the Union. However, Sweden was allowed to retain discounts of 11 billion per year, which is worth 77 billion during the current budget period. The membership fee for 2021 after deduction of discounts lands at around SEK 45 billion, which is an increase compared to previous years. The recovery package was also decided, where it was decided that more than half should be granted as a grant and the rest as a loan. The government was not able to stand up for Swedish interests, but the outcome was still not the big bang against Sweden that many feared. It became a compromise; Sweden was allowed to keep its rebates against our approval of the recovery package. Mr President, I would like to So today we are voting on how the EU budget for 2021 – 2027 will be financed and what discounts Sweden will receive. It is also about approving that the European Commission can borrow EUR 750 billion with the EU budget as collateral, how this money is to be spent and how the large loan is to be repaid. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have been critical of the EU recovery package throughout the process. In particular, joint borrowing with the EU budget is intended, as a guarantee, to provide contributions, not just loans, to the Member States. We are also concerned that subsidies and loans will be provided for things that are unrelated to the pandemic, and at worst they can become direct budget support to long-standing mismanaged economies in several Member States. At the same time, the pandemic has hit Europe's economy hard. The fact that the EU countries want to combat this together is natural. The EU's recovery package can contribute to the recovery of the EU economy if the money is properly spent on future efforts and if it is conditional so that it does not just go straight into economically mismanaged EU countries' state budgets. Sweden obviously benefits from the EU Member States coping with the pandemic because the EU is an extremely important export market for Sweden. At the same time, there is a risk that the Fund, incorrectly used, will only postpone important reforms in countries with missing meat economies. Sweden is a member of the EU. With this it follows that we can reasonably accept the decisions that are taken and the compromises the Swedish Government is included on Sweden's behalf. And the Swedish membership is no better than the government that represents Sweden. The Swedish Government must take advantage of Swedish interests. During the negotiations, the Government has had a strong mandate from the Riksdag to both pursue a budget-restrictive line and act to ensure that the recovery package will only provide loans and not distribute grants. Unfortunately, the EU Heads of State or Government have now agreed on the recovery package. As the agreement now stands, 48% will be granted as loans and 52% as grants. Sweden is one of the countries that pays the most per capita to the EU. This gave the government a strong starting point in the negotiations, which it has unfortunately not taken advantage of. The government has not been able to fully defend the interests of Swedish taxpayers and has not achieved the objectives set by the Riksdag for the negotiations. Stefan Löfven is responsible for this. Mr President, I would like to What will the recovery package cost Sweden? In fact, there is little information about this in the government bill, and that is strange given the importance of the issue. Now the parties themselves have had to try to sort this out, and it has been difficult to explain the package in the social debate – with many misunderstandings. It is, of course, difficult to calculate exactly the outcome of an arrangement that runs until 2058. I usually say that I'm approaching my hundredth birthday. This is, of course, due to changes in exchange rates, interest costs and so on affecting the outcome. But very roughly, Sweden's cost for the Fund's contribution is 140 – 150 billion. At the same time in the near future we receive a grant to Sweden from the same fund with about 35 billion. The net cost is approximately 110 billion. At the same time, the decision on the recovery package is closely linked to the EU's long-term budget. If the recovery package through a Swedish veto is voted down today, the decision on the Swedish rebates on the EU membership fee will also fall. The rebates amount to EUR 11 billion per year, i.e. just over EUR 77 billion. In the near future and until 2027, Sweden will therefore go plus on the arrangement. On the other hand, Sweden will have a total cost of 30 – 35 billion during the entire period up to 2058, if you count the discounts on the membership fee. The recovery package is undoubtedly a less successful EU decision, and Sweden is a net contributor to both the EU budget and the recovery fund. At the same time, however, it is unreasonable to paint it as an economic disaster for Sweden. If Sweden wants to reduce the costs of EU membership, a tighter future EU budget means much more than stopping the recovery package. The cost can also be compared to other expenditure in the Swedish state budget. For example, we provide aid of over 50 billion a year. The Moderates want to reduce the aid budget by about 16 billion. Only that amount means more than three times more per year for future generations than the cost of repaying the Recovery Fund from 2028 onwards. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are critical of the EU compromise. However, when we assess how to vote, we must assess the overall impact on Sweden. If we were to vote against a comprehensive compromise between the 27 EU Heads of State or Government, it would seriously damage confidence in Sweden as a negotiating party in the future. Nor do the Moderates want to be the party that throws Europe into a political and economic crisis in the midst of a pandemic. Economically, the compromise does not mean so much in relation to other expenditure. Thus, in the short term and until 2027, Sweden is going in surplus because we both receive a large contribution from the fund and keep our discounts on the EU levy. The recovery package can thus contribute to the recovery properly used if the money actually goes towards growth-enhancing measures. According to the decision, each EU country will now be allowed to apply for funds from the Recovery Fund within a specific framework for each country. The application should clearly show how the money is to be used. The Member States will then approve the application by a qualified majority, country by country. The Moderates will work to ensure that Sweden votes against actual payments to non-compliant EU countries. Mr President, I would like to There are many rumours that today's vote also concerns the introduction of tax rights for the EU. However, there is no decision on future EU taxes in this compromise, only to resolve the wording that the European Commission wants to promote such direct tax rights. Sweden does not undertake to approve this anywhere. The Moderates are opposed to any proposal to grant EU tax rights, and we will continue to pursue this. In our motivational reservation, together with the Christian Democrats, we particularly highlight the importance of Sweden not accepting any deviations from the current EU rules on tax and taxation decisions being taken unanimously in the EU. It is precisely the question of granting EU tax rights that is of such fundamental importance that Sweden, if necessary, should use its veto to stop any proposals on EU taxes. At least the Moderates will demand that, and we are also clear about that in our motivational reservation. Taxes are a national issue, and the EU should not be given the right to tax Swedish citizens. Mr President, I would like to Does not the decision on the recovery package undermine confidence in the EU? Both today's case of the Recovery Fund and some other EU decisions and proposals show that the EU is on the wrong path towards increased supranationality and with a clearly growing appetite for taking over more and more decision-making rights from Member States. For all of us who are essentially friends of the European Union, it is a development that is worrying. As I said, Sweden's EU membership is no better than the government that represents Sweden in EU negotiations and meetings at EU level. During the period when the Moderates led the Swedish government, Sweden was a strong voice in the EU and respected among other member states. Sweden was listened to. The moderate-led government under Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg even managed to negotiate a reduced EU fee for Sweden. Unfortunately, today's Social Democratic-led government has not managed very well to advance Sweden's positions in the EU. I will give two examples of issues where it has gone exactly the opposite way. We experienced how the Prime Minister called for a summit in Gothenburg to launch his idea of a social pillar in the EU. There were many of us who warned that this would lead completely wrong and just increase the EU's appetite for subduing new policies that are better managed nationally. And that is exactly what happened – now the government is working hard to stop EU cluttering in the social field and to stop proposals for mandatory minimum wages that Sweden does not want, either on the part of employers or trade unions. Taxonomy is the next cloud of unrest. The concept of taxonomy is probably quite unknown to most people. In short, the EU wants to introduce a standard for sustainable investment in the financial market. In fact, one might think that a common standard for this is a good thing. At the same time, this EU standard is of great importance in terms of the availability of risk capital, guidelines for environmental certification by companies, public procurement rules and more. It is therefore extremely important for Swedish business and Swedish jobs that this new EU standard does not disadvantage Sweden. Unfortunately, we now see that both Swedish hydropower, Swedish biofuels and Swedish forestry are at risk of being considered non-sustainable. The proposal is a serious threat to Swedish companies, jobs and energy supply. The government has allowed this to continue for far too long without putting its foot down. It has not realised the threat to Sweden and has not taken the issue seriously, but allowed lower-level officials to conduct the negotiations on behalf of Sweden when other countries have sent ministers. This risks ending very badly for Sweden because of the government's lack of interest. The negotiations on the EU's long-term budget and the recovery package have gone equally badly. In fact, the Government argues in the bill that the Swedish objectives for the negotiations on the long-term budget and the recovery fund have been achieved. We Moderates definitely do not share that view. The government failed in the negotiations. Mr President, I would like to There is always a social debate on Swedish membership of the EU. Basically, it is good and natural that the Swedish people constantly question the benefits of EU membership and whether we get the currency for the membership fee. I would really like the same discussion to take place about the high Swedish taxes and what we get for the tax money. I feel great humility because many who voted for Swedish membership of the European Union are disappointed by the way the European Union has developed, and I do not hesitate to say that I personally share that disappointment. The European Union today is not the Europe that I believed so strongly in when I voted in favour of the referendum, even though I myself have not so far landed in the fact that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits of membership. But today's vote is not about snapping the EU's nose and not about voting yes or no to the EU. It is a question of voting 'yes' or 'no' on this specific issue and assessing what is best for Sweden on this particular issue. Everyone is completely free to argue for or against Swedish membership of the EU, but that is another discussion. As long as Sweden is a member of the European Union, we must make the best of membership in every matter and at any time. Sometimes, unfortunately, that means that, as today, we are forced to choose the least bad of several less good alternatives. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates cannot support the Government's statement as justification for the decision taken by the Riksdag, and we do not believe that the Government has lived up to the mandates given to the Government by the Riksdag. Throughout the process of negotiations on the Recovery Fund and the discussions on the EU's long-term budget, we have abstained from taking part in the decisions because we have not been satisfied with the way things have developed, and we are pursuing this approach by abstaining in today's vote. At the same time, we will vote in favour of our and the Christian Democrats' motivational reservation. I would also like to draw the House's attention to our joint special opinion, which sets out how we have acted on behalf of our parties during the process. To conclude, Mr President, I therefore call for the joint motivational reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats to be approved.
i-555a2b134126692e-187	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, which means a clear rejection of the Government's proposal. There are two things in particular that are very, very wrong with what the European Commission is trying to impose on us now and that the government has therefore agreed to. First of all, the EU should not have any more so-called own resources, that is, money that is directly at the EU's disposal. It doesn't matter whether it's a lot or a little money, nor does it matter what tax domain you try to intrude on, because the Swedish people have the right to tax themselves. The Swedish people's age-old right to tax is exercised by the National Estates alone in the general parliament, as it was so nicely formulated in the 1809 form of government, Section 57. We know that the President likes old forms of government, so you might get a gold star at the edge of that quote. But we should not take a single step – not a single, not a millimetre – towards a further integrated fiscal union. What is worse, Mr President, is the very purpose of this. The aim is therefore that these increased own resources should serve as a guarantee to be able to finance this monstrous corona fund – this recovery instrument, as they call it, which the government was therefore first opposed but then lay flat for because you cannot stand up for the Swedish taxpayers, not able to stand up for them. It is more important to have friends in Brussels. Here, therefore, we should borrow completely bizarre amounts – EUR 750 billion – and then scatter them, mainly in the form of contributions to less responsible countries. Spain has introduced citizens' wages, that is, wages to do absolutely nothing. I have no comment on that; they can have just as much citizen's pay as they want. But they'll have to pay me for it myself. We're not supposed to pay for that, are we? Italy and Greece have not had a budget in balance for decades. Should we finance their budget deficit? I guess they'll have to do that on their own. In many Eastern European countries, you retire before you turn 60 while Sweden has the highest retirement age in the EU and the government wants to increase it even more. They can retire at any time; I have no comment whatsoever on that. But we're not gonna have to pay for it, are we? I guess they'll have to do that on their own. This is therefore a real loss deal for the Swedish taxpayers in the order of SEK 150 billion that we are going out with. This corresponds to 15 000 SEK per Swede. At the same time, we have enormous needs at home. We have an under-funded justice system and an under-funded pension system. We have enormous needs at home. Mr President, I would like to This is crazy. It is sick, and it is amazing that there is a majority in this House to vote this through. The government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals! How on earth have you landed in this conclusion? I don't understand that. There is a clear possibility here today, in this afternoon's vote: Join the Swedish Democrats' reservation! Then we have the opportunity to stop this madness. Do it! If you do not, you can be quite sure that there will be at least one party that will remind your constituents of it. I am far from sure that they are as excited about this as you in here seem to be. I'm far from sure of that. It's election next year, check bene. Mr President, I would like to All these debts that are now being raised and imposed on us in order to scrape out as contributions to less responsible states, they will at best be repaid in 2058. The average age in this House is 48 years. This means that an average Member of this House will be 85 years before these debts are repaid. Mr President, I would like to The average life expectancy in Sweden is 83 years. So we in here will on average have thrown in the towel – walked forever over Bifrost. This clearly means that we are making decisions here today, but the consequences of these decisions are passed on to the next generation, to our children. In my world, therefore, this is not only economic madness, but it is also deeply morally reprehensible. You don't do that. Each individual Member from each individual party will have to carry this with him. So it is morally reprehensible, and it is economic madness. And the question also arises: what is this sending out in terms of incentives to the irresponsible Member States with chronic budget deficits? As soon as there is a crisis, the well-managed economies will come to the rescue of a giant bail-out operation. What kind of incentive structure does it create in the longer term if you are rewarded when you are misbehaved and punished when you are doing well? Seriously! This is about Swedish taxpayers' money. And yes, we will probably be a little unpopular if we, from the Swedish side, put an end to this because it requires consensus decisions by all 27 Member States. But there is something called integrity as well, and six of the parties in Parliament today show a flagrant lack of integrity. Six of Parliament's parties today do not stand up for Swedish taxpayers. As I said, trust us to remind them of this when elections take place next year. In particular, I am disappointed by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, who do not choose to reject this today. We've heard the Moderates earlier here today, with a very critical tone of voice. This is bad and wrong, and one should have done a lot differently. But when it comes down to it and we're going to press buttons at the vote this afternoon, you let this through. If you're so critical, why are you voting through it? Why do they not vote 'no' together with the Swedish Democrats? The question can also be asked: are you sure that you have your constituents with you on this issue? I'm not so sure about that. As I said, Mr President, I request the approval of reservation 1.
i-555a2b134126692e-206	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Oscar Sjöstedt, we are critical on the moderate side, and that is very clear from my speech. But as I explained, this is not only about money but also about being able to trust Sweden as a contracting party. And one should be able to trust that Sweden stands up for what the Swedish Head of State agrees to and compromises on at EU level with all other Heads of State in the EU. It is very important if we are to be able to influence and make Sweden's voice heard in the EU in the future. Just saying no and punishing Sweden is not very smart. This is also found in the calculation. I am a little concerned when Oscar Sjöstedt again, as in some articles that SD has written, suggests that this decision would give the EU tax rights. There are no decisions in this case that say that the EU has the right to tax. We, on the moderate side, are constantly fighting that. Oscar Sjöstedt says that this is about making contributions to less well-managed countries. I wonder if Oscar Sjöstedt thinks that Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Austria and the Netherlands are less well-managed countries. These countries will also benefit from the Fund. Sweden will receive 35 billion in grants from the fund, which Oscar Sjöstedt does not pretend about. He still claims that this costs Sweden 150 billion. It doesn't, because at the same time we're getting 35 billion back. But the most important thing is that Oscar Sjöstedt does not see the risk of Swedish discounts also disappearing by a no in this case. Then SEK 77 billion will disappear, plus the SEK 35 billion we would get from the fund, and then we are almost up to the SEK 150 billion that this costs. The Swedish democrats seem to have completely missed that.
i-555a2b134126692e-210	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I hope that it is not the Head of State who has been down in Brussels negotiating, but let it go. This is called democracy – subjecting Parliament to decisions. That's what we do here, isn't it? That's the government we have in Sweden, isn't it? I am certainly not comfortable in a world where Stefan Löfven can go and make any decisions without a foundation in the Swedish Parliament. It surprises me that Jan Ericson from the Moderates feels comfortable with Stefan Löfven being allowed to enter into any agreements for Sweden without it being submitted to the Swedish Parliament. I'm not comfortable with such a situation. I understand that it would cause some concern if Sweden alone were to put an end to this; we could call it a bad reputation. I'm prepared to take that blow and pay that price to save future generations from this debt. It's about weighing different things. I can buy that there are some Europeans in Brussels who are angry with us in Sweden. I can live with it. What I can't buy is that we're debting our children and the next generation up to our ears. I can't live with that. But it is surely a question of what priorities, fundamental principles and values you are guided by, I suppose. Tax law is quite clearly mentioned in the proposal on which the report we are debating today is based. There is a clear direction: in order for the EU to be able to repay this mountain of debt, it may be necessary to increase its tax rights. So it is absolutely in the direction of the key, and it is a great danger, as I see it. I think it is highly relevant to point out that risk.
i-555a2b134126692e-214	Mr President, I would like to According to the Swedish Democrats, Sweden must first vote away from the Swedish Recovery Fund, which was a condition for a number of countries to accept the discount on the Swedish membership fee. First we will vote that fund out, and then we will send Stefan Löfven down and hope that he succeeds in renegotiating the Swedish discounts without the recovery fund being in place. In fact, I do not think that the hope for this is very great. I definitely share Oscar Sjöstedt's doubts about Stefan Lövven's negotiating skills on these issues. Then let's not hope he can perform miracles, shall we? We need to understand what's in the pot. When Oscar Sjöstedt says that we are blaming our children over the ears, I still think he is using the upper hand. This is not a good agreement, and it costs Sweden money. But we still have to have some sense and balance in the discussion. So we are talking about about about SEK 30 - 35 billion net. This should be related to the large Swedish public debt and to Oscar Sjöstedt and the Swedish Democrats having put up a number of crisis packages in Sweden that have cost hundreds of billions, which also means that we are debting future generations to deal with the crisis. In light of this, 30 – 35 billion as a net cost for Sweden over 40 years is not actually a social disaster. It is bad, but it is not something that impoverishes future generations and makes them feel guilty. I think we should have some sense and balance in the debate. And again – now Oscar Sjöstedt says what is right: that it is in the direction of the key that the European Commission will push for EU taxes. But this is quite different from what you have written in debate articles and what Oscar Sjöstedt said in the speaker's chair. There he said that this means decisions on EU taxes, and it does not. It is important that the Swedish people know this. Swedish taxpayers should not pay tax directly to the EU – point.
i-555a2b134126692e-217	Mr President, I would like to No, the best thing in itself would be for us to send someone other than Stefan Löfven to those negotiations. But the fact remains: Sweden has a veto on the budget as well, apart from this package. The budgetary decision requires consensus. I therefore absolutely believe that this is possible. To confuse these two issues in one and the same decision – the Corona Fund on the one hand and the fee rebates on the other – when, in practice, there are two different decisions, is to make it a little too simple. Sweden also has a veto right on the budget issue. Yes, we have been on many crisis packages in Sweden together with the Moderates among others. I am grateful for that, by the way. It may not be up to us to review this, but I think that the Committee on Finance has generally been active and has made many wise decisions. But then it has been about using the Swedish taxpayers' money to save jobs and companies mainly in Sweden. That's the difference. Here, instead, we will take the Swedish taxpayers' money and send it to Greece, Italy, Spain, Eastern Europe and so on. There's a pretty big difference, at least for a person who's reasonably patriotic. But for the Moderates it may not matter where the Swedish taxpayers' money ends up, if it is in Sweden or in Greece. Maybe it doesn't matter to the Moderates, but to me it doesn't. I think that Swedish taxpayers' money is needed at home. Then I think we mix up the numbers a little bit too. There have been many figures back and forth, but that the net cost of this would only be 30 - 35 billion is not true. It's significantly higher, well over 100 billion.
i-555a2b134126692e-222	Mr President, I would like to Almost a year ago, it was a basically unanimous parliament that said no to a recovery fund that would be based on EU Member States lending money that the EU then pays out as a grant. In the end, most parties went down. Although there was no majority to say yes to the proposal in the EU's long-term budget, Sweden voted in favour because several parties chose to abstain. So here we are now, and we are going to take the decision to approve the borrowings and the EU's own resources. Once again, we see parties which, in words and texts, are negative but which still do not vote against but abstain. The government bill will go through, even though only a minority is behind it. Although the Christian Democrats will announce today that they are abstaining, a minority will vote through the bill. As far as the Left Party is concerned, I propose rejecting the bill in accordance with our reservation in the Committee on Finance. On 14 September 2003, we voted in Sweden if we were to join the EU's monetary union. The Swedish people voted that we should remain out of cooperation. We on the 'no' side warned against common economic policy. We saw a risk of far-reaching coordination of economic policies with power over budgets and borrowings. Today, many of those who were then in favour of the euro also admit that it was wise and good for the Swedish economy that we chose to stand free from the crisis-stricken monetary union. But now the government is proposing that we say yes to joining a common policy of common borrowing in order to save the monetary union that the Swedish people have already said no to. The countries most affected economically by covid-19 and which have been the driving force behind the fund are the countries that are already heavily indebted and vulnerable after the previous crisis. At the time, it was the rich countries of monetary union that forced the vulnerable countries to severe cuts in the public sector and saved banks but not people and jobs. The dismantled welfare and privatisations make many more vulnerable and thus more vulnerable to the Corona crisis. These are problems that have been created within monetary union. When the recovery fund proposal was presented last spring, the Left Party said no to the proposal. We felt that the recovery fund should be a matter for the euro area countries. We thought that the euro countries should write off the debts of the indebted countries – an opinion that we did not hear but that could have become reality if Sweden had dared to resist. Mr President, I would like to It is a completely new principle in the EU to have a common borrowing. In addition, the repayment is postponed to the future. We will have to pay for this fund until 2058. What happens in the event of new crises? So, what do you say we take out new loans and put the mountain of debt in front of us? The Commission's and Parliament's solution is to introduce own resources, such as plastic levies, which are part of the government proposal today, and several taxes. Although these are proposals that involve us entering into deeper economic cooperation within the EU and handing over power to the European Commission. We said no to that in 2003, and we continue to say no to that. We are increasingly approaching a United States of Europe, a superstate. When the Prime Minister was down in Brussels this summer negotiating the long-term budget and the Recovery Fund was co-sponsored by the EU Board that funds from the Fund should be paid out as loans, not as grants. During the negotiations, the Fund's loan component increased from one third to about half. It was regarded as a victory, and a disunity of the EU mentioned said yes. But in the end it turned out that Sweden had been pulled by the nose. The Fund's contribution is in principle the same as before the negotiations. It is the loan component that has been increased by removing support for climate action, research and more as loans to Member States. It's a Pyrrhus victory for Stefan Löfven and for the parties that said yes. Writings on the principles of the rule of law were watered down, and Sweden said yes. When Sweden could have held back so that we could have guarantees that states that receive support are also democratic states, it chose to back down. Does the Swedish Parliament really want to leave it to Brussels to govern Swedish economic policy? Already in today's EU budget, we can see how inefficient the EU's money is being spent. Instead of welfare for many, they go to bragging projects, corruption and Brussels bureaucrats. There is only one thing to do, and that is to say no to the bill on the EU's own resources.
i-555a2b134126692e-233	Mr President, I would like to We have begun to get used to the fact that the Moderates and the Left Party find each other on some issues. We have done so in connection with the emergency packages here. I have to say that much of what Ilona Szatmari Waldau says about the Recovery Fund are opinions that we moderates share, but with the exception that we think the price for Sweden to go against what our Head of Government and the other Heads of State and Government have compromised is so high that it costs more than the money that we could save. The question was raised earlier, and then there were discussions about what the net cost would actually be for the Swedish part. Then you cannot lose sight of the issue of discounts. The question of the Swedish rebates is included in this decision. It's on page 9 of the bill. It explicitly states that this issue is covered by today's decision. If we vote 'no' today, the Swedish rebates of SEK 77 billion will also go away. The cost for Sweden is somewhere at 140 – 150 billion – we say 150 billion. Sweden will receive directly 35 billion, and we will retain the discounts of 77 billion if we accept today's decision. This means that the net cost for Sweden as a whole will be SEK 38 billion, which will then be eliminated in all years to come. After all, it is not a total economic disaster for Sweden and future generations. I am a little concerned that both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, which are behind stopping the whole proposal today, do not realise that this also means that the Swedish rebates of 77 billion will disappear. So that's 11 billion a year over the next seven years. That is quite a lot of money for Sweden.
i-555a2b134126692e-238	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson mentions that the price is too high. He also mentions that there would be chaos in Europe. However, I would like to remind you that the Moderates abstained from voting on the EU Council this summer as well. If the Moderates had stood by their criticism, the criticism that Jan Ericson now says he shares, Stefan Löfven would not have been given the mandate he was given. It is a little bit to hide things from the voters now to come and say that they do not want to cause a crisis when in fact this summer they could have ensured that Stefan Löfven had had a completely different mandate from what he ultimately got. I note that Jan Ericson deals with net costs. Anyone who listened to my speech may have heard that I did not mention the net costs. For the Left Party, the major problem with this fund and the other proposals is that this increases the EU's power over the Member States' economic policies. That is something that we are strongly critical of. I say it again: the Swedish people said no to this in a referendum. Then we cannot introduce a common economic policy, a common monetary policy, by the back door. We must stand by what the Swedish people have said. Then I would like to come back to – because I think that is what Jan Ericson is referring to – that I say that this is to be paid for in 2058, when, incidentally, I will be 96 years old. Is it not naive to think that there will be no more crises? What do the Moderates want to do if we have a crisis in 10 years or 20 years? Should we borrow even more, or do the Moderates want to give the EU the opportunity to introduce different tax rights? What is the Moderate solution for the long-term repayment plan?
i-555a2b134126692e-242	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I have to object. It was not that we Moderates did not support the mandates we gave to the government. On the contrary, we were very clear about our demands on the government. We called for budgetary restraint. We wanted the EU's long-term budget to be reduced when the British left the EU. That's very reasonable. And we were very clear that we did not accept a recovery fund with a grant component. We wanted to make sure it was just loans. We were moderates behind this. But when we saw where it was barking, we abstained – we did not take part in the decisions. It was simply for the same reason as today. We do have a government. We have a head of government negotiating on behalf of Sweden. We may think that the head of government has not done a good job. We may want another government, and we want moderates. But we have the government we have. We have the Prime Minister we have, and he represents Sweden. If he does a bad job, we find it boring, and we regret it. But we are not willing to bring the agreement to a conclusion, because it would lead to a very poor view of Sweden as a negotiating party and a compromise party. That is why we are abstaining. We are not willing to support this proposal – we think it is bad. But we are also not willing to convict it, because it would harm Sweden in the long term. Then you have to land in that you give up. That is the line we have taken during the negotiations since we noticed that it began to bark in the wrong direction. Then at the end I have to say that I share Ilona Waldaus's question. What happens at the next crisis? I have said before that there will be more crises in the EU before 2058. We can be sure of that. That is why it is important for Sweden to be able to push forward so that the EU is reformed, so that we do not end up in this situation again. And you should make reasonable demands on countries when you then pay out this money. I think we should work for this together.
i-555a2b134126692e-246	Mr President, I would like to I can respect in a way that the Moderates now do not want to break the agreement, because the Moderates chose to abstain when they had the chance to ensure that Stefan Löfven would not be given a mandate to say yes to a recovery fund with a large contribution. Jan Ericson says it was because they didn't want to make the deal, but there was no deal at the time. There were proposals that Stefan Löfven, our Prime Minister, would negotiate with the other Heads of State or Government. They say he did a bad job. In fact, it was the Moderates who abstained before the budget was ready and before the agreement was concluded. The Moderates can't talk that away.
i-555a2b134126692e-249	Mr President, I would like to The matter now before Parliament follows the decisions taken last summer by the European Council on the EU's long-term budget and recovery package. The decisions this summer were the culmination of a process that has been going on for many years. During this process, a number of different proposals have been made on the size of the budget, what the money should be spent on and how it should be financed. Several countries, the European Commission and the European Parliament have wanted to see a larger budget, and at the same time there has been great pressure for the discounts that Sweden, among other things, has to be removed. We Christian Democrats have opposed many of the proposals that have come, and we have pushed the EU to adapt its budget to the conditions that prevail when one of the largest Member States has now left the Union. We have criticised the scale of the budget, parts of its content and the proposed funding. We have made demands that Sweden's fee should be still, calculated as a percentage of bnp. And because several other parties have supported this demand, it was also Sweden's line. During the final phase of the budgetary process last spring, the coronapendem and its difficult economic consequences came. At that time, calls were made for a common recovery policy, and in May, the European Commission put forward a concrete proposal for a recovery package that called for the EU to jointly lend money and distribute it as a contribution. We Christian Democrats opposed this. Our point of entry was that fiscal policy is a national matter, but also that, in the strained situation that prevailed, we were willing to provide loans. During the negotiations at the European Council in July, it became clear that this line could not be supported. Some things got Sweden and the like-minded countries – Denmark, Austria and the Netherlands – through. The rebate on the EU levy was defended, and the recovery package, which would first consist of grants, was modified so that it is now a combination of grants and loans. It was hardly a satisfactory result, but it was obvious that it would not be possible to go further. When the Prime Minister sought a mandate to support the agreement, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates chose not to block it. It would not have benefited Sweden if we had sidelined and blocked a decision in the Council – partly because it is very unlikely that we would have had a better outcome in a new negotiation, partly because it would have thrown the whole of EU cooperation, including Sweden, into a deep crisis with incalculable consequences. Mr President, I would like to Part of this summer's decision concerns the EU's so-called own resources. It is to be approved in all countries, and that is what the matter is today. The EU levy consists of several parts. Today, the different bases of calculation are bnp, VAT revenue and customs revenue. What is happening now is that a component is added, a charge on non-recycled plastic waste. The fee for non-recycled plastic is not a tax. This does not mean that the EU has the right to tax. It is a new component alongside the existing ones. Like the other bases of calculation, this will be completely administered in Sweden by Swedish authorities. We Christian Democrats regret that we are here. We have been against new own resources, but this is part of the agreement last summer. As I said, the alternative is to put the EU in a deep economic crisis. Mr. Old President! The European Union has been a success story. In 1945 Europe was in ruins. The war and the Holocaust left behind a continent that was bombed and torn apart. Nor was it the first time that Europe had been torn apart by war. On the contrary, war is recurring in the history of Europe. There was therefore good reason to fear that there could once again be war in Europe. This is the background to the fact that a number of European democrats gathered to begin European cooperation, which eventually became the European Union. It is in this historical context that the EU should be seen. The EU is also extremely important to Sweden from an economic perspective. Our economy is highly export-dependent, and 70% of our exports go to the EU's internal market. This means that hundreds of thousands of jobs in the exporting companies and their subcontractors depend on the proper functioning of this market. Recently, we have also been able to read in the media about the positive effects of European cooperation on law enforcement. The EU is a valuable player in the field of climate change. The EU should also be more active as a security policy actor. European countries can hardly stand alone against the great and powerful countries that threaten our security and our way of life. A coordinated policy is needed here, where the EU should be a strong voice for human rights here at home and around the world. However, if the EU is to continue to work on these important issues, it needs to work on its legitimacy. First of all, the European Union must be really good at what it is going to do, that is, issues that individual countries cannot work on and resolve effectively themselves. Secondly, the EU must respect the fact that much is best done at national level, such as welfare issues, wage formation and fiscal policy. Here the Swedish Government must work actively and proactively. Sweden must now ensure that the recovery package contributes to the strengthening of public finances in EU Member States and that structural reforms are carried out in order to address financial issues in the future at national level. Sweden must also be very clear that we are against all types of taxes at European level. There are proposals such as a digital tax and a financial transaction tax. If these proposals are put into practice and put forward, we Christian Democrats will vote against them. They shall not be implemented. If the proposals are put forward, Sweden must use its veto. The compromise that was made this summer was not a success for Sweden – quite the contrary. Once the European Council arrived at a decision, we stood in practice in the choice between the compromise and to side with Sweden, with incalculable consequences for us and for the European Union as a whole. We will pursue our previous actions in the EU Council on this issue and therefore abstain from the vote today. I also call for the Christian Democrats and the Moderates' motivational reservation on the matter to be approved.
i-555a2b134126692e-267	Mr. Old President! European cooperation is important for Sweden. Our country's economy is largely based on exports. Good and competitive Swedish products are bought by other countries, especially in the EU, and it finances both our imports and much of our welfare. Sweden is dependent on cooperation and regulated trading. That is why we need Europe. The economy in Sweden is well managed, of course seen in a global comparison but also in a European one. That is the basic reason why we are so-called net contributors to the EU, that is, we pay more in membership fees to the European Union than we get back from the EU budget. However, membership is worth the fee. The majority of calculations show that we as a country benefit economically from joining the Union with the access to the free internal market and the trade agreements that it entails. Although it is, of course, difficult to determine precisely, the average value is estimated to be just over SEK 300 billion per year. In addition to the economic benefits of membership and the economies of scale that European coordination can bring, the EU also means that we can resolve political issues better together than we would each one, such as climate change and law enforcement. Mr. Old President! Sweden is also a clear voice for order in public finances, and we are a clear voice for restrictive budgetary policy in the EU. In the run-up to the negotiation of the EU's long-term budget, the situation was very tough. It's important to remember that. With Britain's withdrawal, not only did 66 million people disappear from the EU, but there was also a huge gap in the Union's revenue. Many countries saw that Sweden, among other things, would fill up that hole by increasing their membership fee significantly. On the other hand, Sweden's position was that the EU should, of course, put its mouth on the food bag and instead reduce its expenditure. So the field was set up and the location was locked. The mandate that Sweden brought into the negotiations from the Swedish Parliament was very clear. The biggest and most important was a low budget and to keep Sweden's membership fee down. Another major and important issue, which was also crucial for the Riksdag, was the demand for countries to live up to the principles of the rule of law in order to obtain money. It looked a long time rough for both of these positions. But when the hearing was over, we were able to read the following in a statement from the Prime Minister: Sweden's fee has been kept down, discounts are the largest ever and for the first time ever there is a regulatory framework in the EU where respect for the rule of law principles is linked to the disbursement of common funds. It's a big change. ..................................................... The fact that Sweden, with the conditions prevailing, managed to ally itself with a few like-minded people and to hold back the large and many countries in the EU who thought that we should pay more and finally row home that the membership fee is kept low is an achievement. The budget is kept down, the rebates remain and the fee is estimated to amount to a share of BNI corresponding to approximately the same share as the period 2014-2020. Mr. Old President! Part of the negotiation is about the EU's own resources. Some of them already exist, such as revenue from customs duties and VAT. But there are also suggestions for new ones. Our principle is that we are opposed to transferring tax rights to the EU. It shall lie with the Member States. Furthermore, we do not want tax decisions to be taken by qualified majority, but only by unanimity. That is to say, everyone must vote in favour of it. On the basis of this, we can also see pragmatically and on a case-by-case basis the question of own resources, such as the charge for non-recycled plastics, which has now been introduced. This fee means that countries that are good at recycling, such as Sweden, receive a lower total membership fee. We could therefore support it. The big question when it comes to own resources is, of course, about the European Union's recovery fund. In the middle of the negotiations on the new long-term budget, the Corona crisis struck. The economic consequences of the pandemic are not yet fully known. On the other hand, we know that recovery will be needed – new investments, new jobs and new tax revenues. In order to achieve this, the EU Heads of State or Government agreed on a recovery fund allowing the EU to borrow jointly up to EUR 750 billion, which can then go to the Member States in the form of loans and grants. For the Swedish part, it is very important that Europe recovers. It is of course important socially and democratically that people get jobs and security. Similarly, it is important from a security policy point of view that the interests of major power outside the EU do not take advantage of this situation. Then, of course, it is also very important for the Swedish economy. Without strong European demand, our exports suffer. For us, it is also important that recovery builds stronger and more productive economies and also, as is intended, contributes to conversion, to structural change and to increased digitalisation – that is, that money is being used correctly. The aim, as always, needs to be that all the countries of the European Union have healthy growth and budgetary discipline. Therefore, recovery should also follow the country-specific programmes. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: Sweden benefits greatly from European cooperation. We have a responsibility as politicians to see to the whole, that we are both net contributors and profit from membership, that we see both a Europe that recovers and pushes for rigour and to keep the fee low. The aim is for it to serve both Swedish citizens and our tax money and to achieve higher common European values. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-555a2b134126692e-284	Mr. Old President! We know what is on the table and what it is that we are going to decide on this afternoon. It is a huge debt mountain of EUR 750 billion. Sweden's contribution is in the order of SEK 150 billion to be repaid over almost a 40-year period. At the same time, Spain has introduced citizens' pay. Greece and Italy have continued chronic budget deficits. In my world, at least we have enormous needs at home, here in Sweden. We have an underfunded justice system, we have an increasing unemployment rate and, above all, we have an underfunded pension system. Sweden has the highest retirement age in the EU. We also have the largest share of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. Then one must somewhere prioritize between these things – give away money to other countries or invest them at home. Do not the Social Democrats think it is better that we invest in our elderly than that we debt our children?
i-555a2b134126692e-287	Mr. Old President! I thank Mr Sjöstedt for the question. Basically, it is included here, of course, if you safeguard cooperation in the EU and if you protect Swedish membership. We see that Europe and Sweden are intimately connected. The Swedish economy cannot be isolated from the European economy. It is good for cooperation, for our future and for the Swedish economy that Europe is doing well. Therefore, we make sure to create a whole where we both get a recovery and protect Swedish taxpayers and Swedish economic interests. It is not possible to isolate particulars in a budget; they are linked. As far as the whole is concerned, in this negotiation we have ensured that the membership fee is reduced, we have been given a clause on the principles of the rule of law and we have had a recovery that will be good and necessary for Europe. At the same time, we have ensured that the Swedish fee is kept down. This is important for Swedish taxpayers. In fact, from the outset, it is a very good thing that we are holding down both the levy and the costs for taxpayers and that we are getting a recovery in Europe. It will help jobs and the economy in Europe and jobs and the economy in Sweden.
i-555a2b134126692e-290	Mr. Old President! This is a reasonable naïve attitude. They say we can do both. We can give our money away to someone else. But we can also invest a lot in the needs we have at home. You can't do that, not for the same money anyway. In that case, you have to find new money somewhere else. The SEK 150 billion we bring in here cannot be used to upgrade, for example, the Swedish old-age pension system – there are other needs as well. This money is gone. They have sent the government to Greece, Italy and Spain. Then we cannot use them to strengthen the old-age pension system in Sweden. It is a naive approach that you want to do both – do everything. Of course it's not working. This cannot be a precondition for us to have cooperation in the European Union, that is, for some countries to give money to certain other countries. These are the things that risk sabotaging cooperation in the EU. Many countries are, rightly, quite pissed off. Then I do not quite understand how one can be satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations conducted by the Head of Government and others. The outcome is not very good. In fact, the Head of Government Stefan Löfven was the first to throw in the towel. However, there were some countries – those that are commonly called frugal four, sparse four, i.e. Sweden, Holland, Austria and Denmark – who have a rather tight cooperation and resisted this. In fact, Stefan Löfven threw in the towel first of these four to agree to this. I really cannot understand how we can be satisfied with the outcome of these negotiations. I don't get it. You should be ashamed of yourself. That's what you should do.
i-555a2b134126692e-295	Mr. Old President! We believe that it is bad for the Swedish economy, for Swedish pensions and for Swedish welfare if Europe is in poverty. It's bad. Then there will be no demand for our products. This means that we do not get any jobs in Sweden. Then there are many comments on the budget. We have many ambitions. We have ambitions for Europe. We really want less agricultural aid, and we want more research, for example. We want a number of changes. However, there was something that was most important and where the Parliament co-sent for the negotiations, and that was to keep the fee down and to ensure that the principles of the rule of law were supported. This is where the hearing has delivered. Oscar Sjöstedt is, in a way, guilty of the answer himself. If the Swedish Democrats had wanted to do another negotiation with another outcome, what would the Swedish Democrats have been prepared to sell? Would you, in a negotiation, be prepared to sell off a lower fee and accept a higher fee? Would it have been worth it to you? Would it have been worth getting rid of discounts, which would have hit Swedish taxpayers very hard? Here's the SD response due. Mr. Old President! With this negotiation, we have protected both Swedish tax funds and interests and the will of the Riksdag. In addition, we have had a re-launch in Europe, which is important for both Sweden and Europe.
i-555a2b134126692e-300	Mr. Old President! Historically, the Moderates and the Social Democrats have a rather broad consensus on the value of EU membership. What we do not seem to agree on is how to represent and represent Sweden in the EU. When you hear Björn Wiechel bragging about how well Sweden has done in these negotiations, you actually get a little uncomfortable. We point out in our motivational reservation that this is not a success for Sweden. The government has not succeeded in achieving the objectives set by the parliament; it is simply to state that. We had a goal of shrinking the EU budget in line with the withdrawal of the British, and we had the goal that it would not be a recovery fund that made a big contribution. Both of these things have failed, and then it is not possible to say that this is a huge success for Sweden. I don't think so. The fact that the Social Democrats are so satisfied with the negotiations is a political line – they want to show that the government has behaved – but, as I said, we do not share that view on the part of the opposition. Then we land from the opposition parties a little different in terms of whether we want to reject and use the Swedish veto or, as the Moderates and Christian Democrats, abstain. In essence, however, we are dissatisfied with how the government has succeeded in this. When I hear Björn Wiechel being this pleased, I can say that the content person may also be less involved down in Brussels. I also mentioned this with the social pillar and taxonomy, that is, how the government has mismanaged those issues. I would like to ask Björn Wiechel how he sees the government as having actually shown quite a lack of interest and commitment in other EU issues. Are the Social Democrats discussing raising the Swedish tails on EU issues, in order to actually represent Sweden?
i-555a2b134126692e-304	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your comments, comments and questions, Jan Ericson! I would like to start by saying that I appreciate that Jan Ericson has both criticism and a fairly balanced view of this. It's all about a whole, and I appreciate you highlighting what is Sweden's overall interests, Jan Ericson – as well as that this is a negotiation where you try to get through as much as possible of their most important principles. If you ask France, Spain and perhaps Italy if they think that Sweden has been lax in this negotiation, I think you get a different answer from what you can get from many politicians in Sweden. These countries think that we in Sweden were quite difficult and resisted for a long time. This may not always be the case in the Swedish debate. It is also important to remember the starting point here: Britain had disappeared. A large net contributor to the EU was gone, and there was a huge gap in the budget. How would this be covered? There Sweden received a reduction in the fee. We got the budget down on the basis of the fears that existed, and we got the Swedish membership fee down. What I would like to say is to deliver back to Parliament what it had asked the Swedish delegation to do. That's delivering. That's what I stand for. I think it is well done, and as a whole it was good. Then I think that Sweden's position in the EU should generally be about representing Swedish interests. We will stand up for the Swedish taxpayer, and we will ensure that we design a Europe that is as good as possible for Swedish interests. This applies to things that the Moderates and we often agree on – such as budget restraint and investments in the right things – and here Sweden will be a very active voice.
i-555a2b134126692e-309	Mr. Old President! When you have not been present at the hearing, it is very difficult to assess how the tone has been and how different countries have understood Sweden. We can nevertheless see that Sweden is one of the largest net contributors to the EU budget and that Sweden is thus important to the rest of the EU. We are involved in funding Europe, and we are putting more money into Europe than we are getting back. It gives Sweden a strong negotiating position – if you take advantage of it. That is what can be called into question, that is, whether the Prime Minister has really made good use of this. Compared with the participation of Anders Borg and Fredrik Reinfeldt in the negotiations on the last long-term budget for the EU, which started in 2014. Then they managed to negotiate the fee. I am aware that it was more difficult now that the British had disappeared, but I can still see that Sweden had a strong voice in the EU during the alliance years. My picture when I talk to people who are active down in Brussels and the EU is that Sweden's voice is not at all as strong today, and I find that regrettable. I fully share Björn Wiechels's view that it is important that the grants, and also loans, that are paid out from the fund go to the right things. I would therefore like to ask a very specific question, which we also touch on in our motion. Does Björn Wiechel and the Social Democrats agree that Sweden is voting against support for countries that do not meet the requirements of the Recovery Fund? Each country must apply for this, and it must be examined by the EU, by qualified majority, country by country. Do the Social Democrats stand up to be sharp and clear in the demand for other EU countries and actually threaten to say no if they do not meet the demands?
i-555a2b134126692e-312	Mr. Old President! Of course, we should push for everyone to live up to what is in the agreement and for the countries to follow the plans. However, how we vote will have to come back to when they are presented; it is not possible to say in advance. I imagine that the Moderates and the Social Democrats have a consensus here, much as we have on what Mr Ericson spoke about, namely the negotiations earlier and the negotiations now. Keeping the Swedish fee down and protecting the Swedish interests is a common approach, and I think it is a strength for Sweden that we have an overall consensus on the major issues when it comes to negotiations on the budget and Swedish interests in the EU. I also think it is important to say that this hearing was good as a whole. We do not know what that will ultimately mean for Britain to leave the EU. We already see that it is redrawing the map, and it will continue redrawing the map. Sweden lost an important ally and voice regarding what the EU wants to see, and a net contributor, when the UK disappeared. This will mean that Sweden will have to work harder for a development in Europe that looks like we have previously wanted and that we continue to want, that is, a Europe that creates jobs and well-being in the right way, has strict budgetary discipline and looks at common added value. I hope that the Social Democrats and the Moderates will continue to hold on to the Swedish line in the future.
i-555a2b134126692e-314	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating a very big issue. This means that there are difficult trade-offs at stake, and what makes this difficult, of course – apart from the huge amount of money – is that it is 27 members who will come to an agreement in the association we call Europe. This means that you have to weigh plus against minus and ultimately decide. I will present here the views of the Center Party and how we have reasoned in this balance – without resorting to upper words, which I think has been partly so far in the debate. It is also a question of balancing different principles that compete with each other. It is about securing the principle of Europe's long-term competitiveness, and it is about the principle of where the right to taxation should lie. It is also about own resources and how it should work for the EU, as well as about the generational perspective. It is also about the principle of being economical with the money and advocating loans instead of grants. It is also about the principles of the rule of law, which is something that has been very important for the Center Party. It is also about the principle of solidarity with the European Union. The Center Party's basic view on this issue is that Europe should not lose competitiveness. If you are not to do so, you need strong, successful and prosperous European companies. It's kind of the foundation. Sweden, which is a very small and export-dependent country, is completely dependent on its functioning for the rest of the EU. If we are to succeed in our recovery, Europe needs to succeed in its recovery. Mr. Old President! I'm going to go through some of the negative side that we've seen and the plus side that we've seen. I'll start with the negative side. The process itself around this has been rather boring and bad. When the EUR 750 billion recovery fund was presented, the Center Party expressed great criticism of it, and many parties had exactly the same entry point. We were called the frugal four, that is, the sparse quartet. At first, there were no criteria for how this money was to be used and who was to receive it. Another negative side is that, in the end, the proposal lands on about 50% grants and 50% loans. More than 50% of the contribution leads to the risk of irresponsible economic policy in Europe. It is also a facility that gives the EU a partial fiscal role, which the Center Party really does not want, because that role should remain with the Member States. We also have a new revenue component that we have doubts about. A large part of the discussion that we see minus is the future debate on tax law. The Center Party really wants to protect national tax law. That is the basis, and we will fight for that in future decisions so that we do not drift into an EU tax law. Of course, with the approach chosen, this means an impact on the generation perspective, which is also a negative factor. Clearly, we're shooting the cost of our children. That's what happens when you put these huge loans with repayments between 2028 and 2058. At the same time, however, we think it can be reasonable when we are now going through the biggest crisis since the 30th century. If you then analyse the plus pages, you can say that the Center Party continues to be in favour of a great deal of cooperation, which means that we are helping each other in the EU, this association. Then we think it is smart that we take joint action to rebuild areas and sectors that have crashed during the crisis. It benefits everyone, and it benefits Sweden in particular. We also believe that it is a big plus that Sweden as a small, export-dependent country, which actually had more than 60% of our exports to the EU before the pandemic, does not act as a brake block. We think it is smart that Sweden does not take on the role of brake block. Mr. Old President! We also believe that it is a plus that in the final proposal that came up there is a clear link as to what this money should go to and which countries should get it. We see that it is positive that these funds are linked to climate action with a requirement that at least 37% go to such efforts and 20% go to digitalisation. This means that this huge money can be a leap to a better future. What has been most crucial to us in terms of why we have chosen to support this is that we have received a demand for the principles of the rule of law. It is a new instrument that the European Union has been given, which means that we can now finally make demands, for example, of Poland and Hungary, for them to comply with the agreement. This, as we call the democratic lock in our daily speeches, was absolutely crucial for the Center Party to support this. We have long felt that it was quite provocative when authoritarian leaders in the European Union received billions after billions while dismantling democracy, closing television stations, withdrawing fundamental rights for both people and institutions and prohibiting women from having an abortion. So this has been the most crucial thing for us to support this. Mr. Old President! If you weigh all this together, you can say that the end product is not perfect. But we can see that it is much better than the first draft was in the summer of 2020. If you weigh plus minus is still plus s a clear consideration for Sweden, and so we support this. Finally, I can say that I find it a little gratifying to see that this deal was a deal in the broad middle field. That is exactly the way that the Center Party thinks we should work together forward, that is, the outer edges that believe less in cooperation are actually not in the settlement. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-555a2b134126692e-331	Mr. Old President! The issue we are discussing today, about the EU's own resources, is basically about what we think the EU should be – whether we believe that the EU is something that we should affirm and that we should solve problems and crises together or whether we should have the attitude that Sweden and other countries should deal with problems individually. For me and the Green Party, the answer is clear. We are stronger together than we are each one for ourselves. Sweden is good for the EU, but the EU is also good for Sweden. Europe is a prerequisite for the exports and the economy that we have today. The fact that the EU can work together in an acute crisis is important, but just as important is to be able to deal with the long-term problems of a pandemic that we now have. The EU is currently experiencing a crisis of a scale that is difficult to grasp. The pandemic has affected the whole Union and the rest of the world as well. Many Member States have been extremely hard hit by the pandemic of many deaths and high spread of infection. In addition, the restrictions have also created an economic crisis that is greater than any other crisis that the EU has experienced so far. In such a situation, the EU must unite and face the crisis together. Mr. Old President! Some EU Member States do not manage their economies as we see fit. It is frustrating to see, and we should not hold back criticism of the irresponsibility or inability of several countries to implement structural reforms. But that does not mean either that we should turn our backs on those countries when they are in crisis and need support. It would be short-sighted and stupid, and it would also ultimately bite Sweden's tail. The EU showed a strength that could face this crisis. Strong efforts are now being made to tackle the pandemic and to get out of the crisis as a better Union. Climate and digitalisation are the focus of the economic revival. We are therefore debating the rules governing own resources. It is something that has existed in the Union for a long time and something that acts as a kitt to keep the common economy together. The EU budget is a whole, and we cannot opt out of an individual part of it. Mr. Old President! A novelty is that our fee to the EU in the future will be based on how much plastic is sorted out in our waste management. It's an exciting new grip. It is a good thing that the Commission is developing instruments that encourage Member States to live up to their commitments to switch to a circular economy. What has been brought forward by previous debaters on the principles of the rule of law is also extremely important in this context. As a whole, the EU's long-term budget and the Recovery Instrument are good and crucial for the future of the EU. For this to happen, all parliaments in each Member State must approve the new own resources framework. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-RnytTSAzj9SM9cVW7oi13k	Mr. Old President! I support the committee's proposal. In times of crisis, we need more cooperation, not less. In times of crisis, the EU needs to switch up, not switch down. There is a belief that the Union is a zero-sum game. The Union is anything but a zero-sum game. It's a win-win situation. If you look at it from a wider perspective, peace and prosperity in Europe are the aims of the EU, and compromise, cohesion and solidarity are the way there. Nobody gets everything in the negotiations, but everyone gets something. For example, 1.3 billion have been released for Sweden from the re-starting fund to replace countries' expenditures caused by the coronapdemine, of which 800 million are via the EU's regional development budget. In the end, then, we must ask ourselves: What is the alternative to solving difficult situations together? Liberals' answer is that the alternative is worse. Sweden is a small and export-dependent country. Only in my county of Värmland does one fifth of the jobs come from global business. The largest exports from Värmland go to other EU countries, and the EU's internal market is an advantage for the forest industry and for small businesses. We are very dependent on what is happening in the world around us. In short, it can be said that if Europe is doing well, Sweden is doing well. You've heard that quote before, and it's more true now than ever. During the crisis, it has been clear that countries such as France, Italy and Spain have needed a lot of help and support in order not to crash. Had they done so, Mr. Age President, we in Sweden would have lost many jobs and thus welfare. Sweden needs the EU. How do we know this is a good deal for Sweden? It is, in fact, an important issue. That is why it has been important for us that it is not just about unconditional subsidies but about regular loans. All countries must take responsibility for their own economy. Each country must also bear its own costs. But we must also work together in Europe. The fact that we together have good economic development in Europe also benefits Sweden, of course. Firstly, large parts of the Swedish economy are doing well right now. This is, of course, due to the fact that the economy of several other European countries has gone much better than expected. There, the re-starting fund has played a major role. Secondly, we are an export-dependent country. This means that sales and exports are A and O. The EU is of great importance there. That's what creates revenue and jobs. That's what makes sure people have a job to go to, and that's what secures our welfare. Having said that, we would have liked it to have been more loans and less subsidies. But this is a negotiation in which, for example, countries like Germany wanted more funding. This is therefore a good and ultimately fair compromise, because it is important that countries such as Sweden, which have its finances in order, should not pay this in full. Thirdly, the Corona does not know any boundaries. In times of crisis, we need more cooperation, not less. In times of crisis, the EU needs to switch up, not switch down. It is about solidarity with all the EU Member States. It is about support for economic recovery for all Member States, and so is Sweden. Mr. Old President! We must do everything in our power to secure Sweden's economy and Swedish jobs. It is above all about securing Swedish jobs and our welfare.
i-555a2b134126692e-351	Mr. Old President! An occupational pension undertaking is an undertaking that carries out occupational pension activities and has key functions in risk management, compliance and internal audit. These occupational pension schemes can make different types of investment, including in long-term asset types such as infrastructure. The Government proposes in the bill that the capital requirement for market risk should include a sub-group for qualifying infrastructure investments and that these investments should thus have a lower capital requirement. In order for an infrastructure investment to be approved and thus have a lower capital requirement, the investment must be environmentally sustainable. The Government's aim of the proposal is to strengthen incentives for investment in infrastructure, but in practice the investments covered will only be those that meet the requirements of so-called environmental sustainability. Having said that, today's decision is basically about one thing: should we increase the risks in financial stability or not? It is not I who raised this question and not my party, but it is our expert authorities that we have given a responsibility for the financial stability of the kingdom. They raise the flag of warning and say that the proposal is a risk to the country's financial stability. I quote directly from the referral: a Financial Supervisory Authority does not believe that the capital requirements rules should be adjusted in order to promote objectives other than protecting policyholders and safeguarding financial stability, whether it is about sustainability or something else. The Authority considers that the capital requirements rules should not be a policy instrument. It is therefore not appropriate to lower the capital requirement in order to strengthen incentives for investment in infrastructure. ..................................................... It is about as powerfully expressed as it can only be expressed in bureaucrats' Swedish. And the Swedish Democrats trust Finansinspektionen and the Swedish National Debt Office, which have similar formulations, to a greater extent than we trust the Swedish government. As the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority emphasises, the ultimate purpose of the capital requirements rules is to protect policyholders and safeguard financial stability and not to pursue policy objectives in the first place. As a social conservative that highly values the precautionary principle, I would therefore like to say that I think it is deeply irresponsible to politicise an area that should protect us from threats to financial stability, because there is nothing today to suggest that green investments yield higher returns at lower risk, so-called risk-adjusted returns. There is no such evidence at all. On the contrary, this type of ministry activism helps to build up unreasonable expectations of green investments that ultimately risk draining confidence in them. These are the risks on which Finansinspektionen and the Swedish National Debt Office have pointed out, and this is what our concerns are based. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-555a2b134126692e-358	Mr. Old President! There is nothing to say that you do not take responsibility for pensions if you take responsibility for climate and sustainability. It's the other way around. Finansinspektionen recently had a major debate article in Dagens Industri, which called on companies to develop risks in their investments based on their impact on the climate, when it was very clearly stated that the risks will be significant. In addition, there are some international studies. Alecta has conducted a study that shows that if climate change occurs, the values of different stocks and securities will fall sharply. There's gonna be a big impact. The Left Party is mainly behind the bill. Infrastructure investment already has a lower capital requirement as the risk is lower and the cash flow is safe and predictable. However, what does not exist today are the environmental criteria for whether an investment can be covered by the lower capital requirement. The Government proposes in the bill that the capital requirement for market risk included in the risk-sensitive capital requirement should include a subset of the risk related precisely to qualifying infrastructure investments and that they should be seen as a limited investment risk that meets basic environmental sustainability requirements. The bill also states that the public interest in the investment being made shall be taken into account when calculating the capital requirement for the sub-group. The latter should surely be read as meaning that the government intends to lower the capital requirement for the investments that count as qualifying infrastructure investments and that it sets out a target for this. We welcome this. An environmental sustainability objective to classify it as qualifying infrastructure investment with lower capital requirements is reasonable. However, we believe that the objective should be tightened up. We want an addition that it will also contribute to a more transport-efficient society with lower greenhouse gas emissions. So we want to tighten up the target the government has in the bill. If the government lowers at one end, which may be reasonable if the risk is lower and the investment is made to protect climate and pension money, then capital adequacy requirements at the other end should perhaps be increased if the investment in, for example, the fossil industry produces more emissions. But it does not choose the government, which weakens financial stability. This should be reviewed by the government. Our reservation is therefore about tightening up the environmental sustainability target and also reviewing whether there should not be higher capital adequacy requirements for investments in, for example, the fossil fuel industry. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-555a2b134126692e-368	Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats join the expert authorities who have been given responsibility for the financial stability of the Reich. We are on the same side as Finansinspektionen, Riksgälden and the international research, which clearly states that there is no evidence that green investments have a systematically lower risk profile. In a situation where international research in this area concludes that they have a lower risk profile, I am prepared to discuss lower capital requirements, but until then the precautionary principle applies. We do not want to glamour with people's occupational pensions or the financial stability of the realm. Why do Ulla Andersson and the Left Party stand on the opposite side, contrary to the international research that exists and contrary to what the expert authorities say?
i-555a2b134126692e-371	Mr. Old President! I think it is reasonable to look at how to use the pension provisions that are made and that they are sustainable in an extension, not only for our generation but also for future generations. We can see that investments in, for example, the fossil industry will not be sustainable, and therefore Finansinspektionen recently urged all companies to review the risks of the investments they have made because the value of these investments will fall drastically. It was a great initiative by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The Riksbank also looks at how climate change will affect us all and financial stability. What the government is doing here is to look at how infrastructure investments, which provide safe cash flows and already allow lower capital adequacy requirements, can be complemented by an environmental sustainability requirement. That's a reasonable way to go. However, it is very carefully formulated in the bill, and we think that the goal should be tightened up. We also believe that we should look at whether there are capital adequacy requirements at the other end to be tightened up, that is to say for investments which today represent a great risk. It is untenable both economically and for pensions and future generations on this planet to have a society where it is constantly being reinvested in fossil fuels.
i-555a2b134126692e-375	Mr. Old President! The fact that research is being carried out on green investments and climate investments is something I am very positive about. I am in favour of all research as long as it can better describe reality and provide us with more adequate decision-making material. That's great. It is not possible to put a similarity between current research and lower capital requirements. Then you run ahead and make a decision that currently does not have support in the research. That is what the Left Party and the other parties are doing now, and it is distressing. A couple of weeks ago there was a debate article on DN Debate by four Swedish, prominent researchers with the title Did Ulla Andersson read it? I think it is important that, as a Swedish Member of Parliament, you take in this kind of information and do not base your decisions on emotional expressions or opinions. The four researchers say that expectations for green investments are not realistic and that they risk reducing future pensions but cannot be expected to make significant climate benefits. They further state that a strategy where you think you know better than everyone else is for activists and small hedge funds, not for our pensions. Why are Ulla Andersson and the Left Party basing their position on this issue on other than facts?
i-555a2b134126692e-380	Mr. Old President! I appreciate Dennis Dioukarev being for all the research. It is not all his party colleagues, as we can see in, among other things, motions in this House. With the rhetoric that Dennis Dioukarev uses in this debate, one could say that Finansinspektionen has run ahead because they have urged all companies to review their investments in the fossil industry and make risk assessments based on it if they have provided adequate capital adequacy. In that case, the Riksbank has also run ahead because they are also working to look at how climate-related investments and fossil investments affect their work and how they should act when it comes to investments on their part. This is a work that is going on internationally, and I believe that the Swedish Democrats will one day realise that it is really needed. What is being done in the bill is moving in the right direction, but I think that the target should be tightened up so that it becomes clearer that greenhouse gas emissions should also be reduced. I also think that we should look at how to increase the capital adequacy requirements for investments that are going in the wrong direction in order for us to meet, for example, the Paris Agreement.
i-555a2b134126692e-385	Mr. Old President! I shall confidently express the views of the Social Democrats on this matter. It is a review of the regulation of occupational pension companies. The background to the report under discussion is an EU directive aimed at harmonising, that is to say, creating common rules for, the internal market in occupational pensions. For the Swedish part, harmonisation becomes very special. Occupational pensions are complementary to the general pension and are an increasing part of the final pension. The vast majority of Swedes receive their occupational pension through collective agreements negotiated by the social partners, i.e. the workers through the trade unions and the owners through the employers' organisations. Occupational pensions, which are an important part of employees' conditions and which are based on working under collective agreements, are thus covered by the Swedish model. In this way, Sweden is different from other EU countries. The purpose of the Swedish Government is to implement the EU Directive while safeguarding the Swedish model. This has also been done, in two steps. First, after listening to the parties, the directive was adopted. The Riksdag then addressed an announcement to the Government with some clear points. These are the points covered by this report. The points that have been dealt with and which we are now debating are the following: 中 Investments outside the EEA, the European Economic Area, shall be facilitated for occupational pension schemes and pension foundations. 中 Infrastructure investments that meet essential environmental sustainability requirements shall be stimulated for occupational pension undertakings.
i-555a2b134126692e-393	For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: Insurance policies taken out for certain other persons are also included in occupational pension insurance. For the supplementary insurance class of the Occupational Pensions Companies Act, certain adjustments shall be made in respect of own funds and capital requirements. Mr. Old President! With this review, the government has again listened to and taken into account the parties. That's good. We protect our Swedish model, and it is important that it becomes a solution that works for the parties. The knots that existed between the EU Directive and the Swedish model have been solved. Thus, a potential concern for our labour market model is averted. We are happy about this. The report lays down rules on what occupational pension companies may invest in. Of course, occupational pension companies are looking for interesting investments that can produce good returns and thus good pensions. At the same time, it is important that investments contribute to different aspects of sustainability. Sustainable investment is becoming increasingly important, both for consumers, i.e. future pensioners, and for pension companies. Here it is important to find a good balance and to be able to steer towards conversion, without steering too hard. The aim is to be able to both produce good returns and invest sustainably. Here the government has largely landed well. In doing so, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-555a2b134126692e-398	Mr. Old President! Björn Wiechel says that the Social Democrats have taken account of what the parties have said on the matter. My question will then be why we have not taken into account what our authorities, who are responsible for the financial stability of the kingdom – the responsibility we have given them – say. They state clearly in the referral that the proposal supported by the Social Democrats and other parties is a threat to the financial stability of the Reich. It's a very strong expression in bureaucrat Swedish. Why is this not taken into account? Why is it not taken into account that Swedish occupational pensions are at risk? Why do they do this?
i-GNDiQm1LpnwGW64tZ1azNE	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Dennis Dioukarev, for the question. As politicians, we are responsible for taking on many points of view. We shall build a whole that is good for the citizens and for the country. When you create a whole, there are many views, many interests, many knowledge and many wills to take in. Mr Dioukarev spoke earlier about not making decisions on emotional expressions. Then one might wonder whether Sweden's social partners – unions and employers – are acting after expressions of emotion or whether it is something more than that and whether to listen to it. Then there are others who believe that climate change itself is a risk that we need to keep track of. It is therefore important that we create a balance and that we find a proposal that can handle several parts. It is interesting that we have the Swedish Democrats in one corner and the Left Party in the other corner here. We believe that the proposal is balanced, takes in the interests and manages both sustainability and returns.
i-555a2b134126692e-403	Mr. Old President! The only problem is that there is no evidence whatsoever in research that green investment involves a systematically lower level of risk and therefore deserves a lower capital requirement. Can Björn Wiechel present one such proof here and now? If he can't, he's gambling with Sweden's financial stability and with people's occupational pensions. It is on these facts that we base our position, i.e. on Finansinspektionen's and Riksgälden's views and on the international research that now exists. Can Björn Wiechel present a single piece of evidence or refer to a single study that unison says that green investments mean a systematically lower level of risk?
i-555a2b134126692e-405	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the question. Once again, we as politicians are responsible for taking in many aspects and landing in one whole, which is good from several perspectives. Here a proposal has been put forward which seeks to find a balance based on different interests. As far as Sweden's pensioners are concerned, it is not possible in this context to avoid thinking about what provides good pensions. It is that people have work, that people can work in a workplace covered by collective agreements and that they can be a member of a trade union organisation that can fight for them and ensure that they have good rights. Otherwise, there will be no pensions. If people are not covered by collective agreements and are not allowed to join the union, there will be low pensions. We have a party – the Swedish Democrats – which fights trade union organisations, which fight trade union membership, which makes it more difficult for people to be in the union and which makes the union less able to negotiate. This, of course, hits pensions directly. It is very important that we stand up for equal partners. We will ensure that employers are members of their employers' organisations, as well as workers' participation in their trade union organisations. This creates a sound whole. Then we cannot attack one party, because then it will hit the employees and their future pensions. If the Swedish Democrats want to look to pensioners, to the whole and to the economy, they should start by not attacking Sweden's employees and their organisations.
i-7TbKAPv6JF4iXUPLvKZXR3	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the Justice Committee's report 16 on Sweden's access to the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Today, almost all crimes can be cyber-related. This applies to everything from financial crime and data breach to fraud, trafficking and threats on the Internet. Combating cybercrime in a digital world is in many cases a matter of international police cooperation, where crime is easily committed across national borders. Cybercrime means that IT technology is used to carry out different crimes, while the crimes themselves may be of any type of crime. Today, a large part of all types of crime are cyber-related. Fraud is, for example, a common crime on the Internet as well as trafficking in illegal services, such as pandering and drugs. Child pornography crime is another crime that almost exclusively occurs on the internet, as child pornography images and films are distributed via email, file sharing software, chat sites and websites. Violent crimes can also be cyber-related. This may mean that the perpetrator uses the internet as a tool in planning a crime. Mr. Old President! As early as 1996, the Council of Europe's Steering Committee on Criminal Matters decided to investigate the issues of cybercrime. This resulted in the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime, signed by Sweden in 2001. The Convention has three main objectives. The first is to bring national criminal law in respect of certain acts closer together. The second is to ensure that each nation has the procedural rules necessary for investigating and prosecuting the offences concerned. The third is to promote international cooperation on combating cybercrime. Mr. Old President! It is gratifying that there is a broad consensus among the parliamentary parties on this issue. We have, in Swedish legislation, largely already complied with most of the articles of the Convention. However, some legislative changes remain to meet the requirements of procedural regulation and international cooperation rules. These include, for example, the introduction of the possibility of rapid security of stored data and certain amendments to the Electronic Communications Act. It is also proposed to amend the law on international judicial assistance in criminal matters in order to facilitate international cooperation in the fight against cybercrime. These are necessary steps to better combat crimes committed on the Internet. Mr. Old President! The Government proposes that Sweden leave a number of reservations at the time of the entry into force of the Convention. These are the real-time collection of traffic data, interception of content data and the call for intent to encourage hatred, discrimination or violence against ethnic groups. We Swedish democrats have a reservation because we believe that the government should submit a further reservation on access to the Convention. We believe that Sweden should make reservations about the Swedish special regulation of freedom of expression and printing offences. The freedom of the press and of expression is a foundation of modern democracy. The fact that certain pressures and speeches are criminalised results from the fact that the opinion of the same people seriously prevents others from exercising their own right to freedom of expression. We believe that it should be up to each individual country to formulate the restrictions on freedom of expression which that particular country considers justified. International cooperation should be aimed at facilitating the prosecution of crime by each country rather than at committing them to a certain amount of criminal law regulation. To commit to regulating freedom of the press and expression in a certain way is not appropriate, in our view. The EESC therefore believes that Sweden should leave a reservation under Article 3(2) and (2) of the Additional Protocol to the Convention.
i-555a2b134126692e-420	Mr. Old President! In 1980 it became a criminal offence to distribute child pornography and also to produce child pornography if it was intended to be distributed. Since 1995, the police have been able to seize material with child pornography content. Furthermore, possession of child pornography was banned in 1999. Since 2010, it is forbidden to look at a child pornography picture. For just under a year, the minimum sentence for serious child pornography offences was tightened from six months in prison to one year in prison. Forty years is a long time. Our legislation has, of course, changed during this time, but the perpetrators also find new ways. The development of IT during this time can be described as explosive. The legislators who decided in 1980 to make the spread of child pornography a criminal offence could not predict what spread 2021 means. Regardless of this, it is of the utmost importance that children are protected against violations, crimes, violence and other abuse. These things often happen online, which 40 years ago was an unknown concept. Why is she talking about child pornography, can of course friend of order think about when the matter being debated today is about Sweden's access to the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime. It's connected, Mr. Old President. I am convinced that almost everyone in our entire population thinks that child pornography is a disgusting crime and that anyone who commits these abuses of our children should be punished. But for that to happen, the police need tools to investigate the crimes. From a law enforcement perspective, it is problematic as Swedish police are prevented from searching data that a suspect has stored in a cloud service whose server is located outside Sweden's borders. In these cases, a prosecutor must request legal aid from the country where the server is located. Such a request involves a process that often takes time, which of course makes it difficult and sometimes impossible for the police to secure any evidence in time. One of these tools – a very important tool – is this proposal. Mr. Old President! The Cybercrime Convention is mainly aimed at harmonising legislation and simplifying international cooperation on cybercrime. For law enforcement authorities, it simplifies access to suspected abuse materials stored on cloud services whose servers are located in other countries. Electronic evidence is required in around 85% of all criminal investigations, and in two thirds of these investigations it is necessary to obtain evidence from providers of online services based in another jurisdiction. Furthermore, it is a matter of ensuring that there are national procedural rules that meet the need to investigate and prosecute the crimes dealt with in the Convention and other crimes committed using computers and the need to be able to use evidence in electronic form. A third aim is to lay the foundations for rapid and effective international cooperation in the fight against cybercrime. Surely today you can say, finally! Since Sweden is now coming to an end with the issue. Mr. Old President! Child pornography is a disgusting crime. For the sake of the exploited children, it must be stopped. Anyone who commits these crimes shall be brought to justice. Police and prosecutors shall have the necessary tools to effectively combat serious crimes online. As a society, we must do everything we can to protect these children. The committee's report contains an announcement on remote search. The law must be amended so that it is possible for the police to use it in the fight against crime. The Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, have chosen to make a special statement in this particular part, as adapting the rules on seizures and searches requires careful consideration. The government must now actively work to analyse the proposal of the Seizure Investigation and put a bill on Parliament's table regarding remote search. With this in mind, Mr President-in-Office, I support the committee's proposal in report 16.
i-555a2b134126692e-431	Mr. Old President! Digitalisation and the rapid development of technology bring with it very positive results. New services that we could not have imagined just a few years ago are emerging. We can communicate more easily with other people remotely. Not least in times of a pandemic that shuts down communities around the world, digitalisation has enabled many people to work remotely and to a certain extent maintain private relationships despite the fact that they cannot meet physically. But with the positive development there is also a reverse. It-based tools become part of or fulfil a crucial function for different types of crime. The previous speaker has well described the types of crime involved. Although crime as such is cyber-related, Mr President-in-Office, the children who are being abused, the elderly who are being deceived and the criminals who use digital tools for planning drug trafficking, robbery or murder. Those people are real in real life. Access to data on electronic communications is therefore often a prerequisite for investigating real crimes that affect real people. Since crime and information are often cross-border, effective international cooperation on these issues is important. In order to facilitate such cooperation, the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime, the so-called Budapest Convention, was adopted as early as 2001. The aim of the Convention is to harmonise the national laws of States Parties relating to cybercrime and to simplify international cooperation on these issues. To date, the Convention has been ratified by 65 states, including the other Nordic countries and the majority of EU Member States. Sweden is among the few EU countries that have not yet ratified the Convention. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we really want to emphasise the importance of Sweden being able to participate fully in the fight against cybercrime. It is therefore gratifying that Sweden can finally accede to the Convention. But it has taken Sweden an incredible amount of time to get to the point where we are today. In 2011, the Alliance government commissioned a special investigator to analyse the need and propose constitutional changes to enable Sweden to accede to the Convention. The report of the investigation was submitted to the government in 2013 and was referred to the same year. To a written question from the then moderate member Krister Hammarbergh, Minister Ygeman replied in November 2016 that the Government's ambition was to return to Parliament with a bill during the current term of office, i.e. no later than 2018. It is therefore remarkable that Parliament is only given the opportunity to ratify the Convention in 2021. In addition to Sweden's proposed accession to the Convention and its Additional Protocols, the Government also proposes a number of legislative amendments necessary for access, such as requiring the holder of an electronic task to preserve it through so-called freezing. The Moderates have no objection to the legislative changes proposed in the bill. On the other hand, it is a shortcoming that the question of remote search is not clarified in the bill. More and more of the information we use is stored in the cloud. Not least, it is about information in popular services such as Facebook, Snapchat and Steam. Today, only the information stored locally can be examined when, for example, a mobile phone is found. This means that valuable information risks being lost in criminal investigations. Theoretically, it would be possible to conduct searches at the locations where the servers are located. In practice, however, it is complicated. For example, it is often difficult to know where certain information is stored. The fact that the information is often not stored on Swedish territory makes it even more difficult. Both the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency have stated in their referrals that the legal situation regarding the search is unclear at a distance. In order to meet the requirements of the Convention, it is necessary to clarify that a study at a distance is permitted under existing rules or a legislative amendment that enables the search procedure to be carried out at a distance. ..................................................... The question of remote search has been addressed by the Seizure Investigation, which in 2017 proposed to regulate the matter. The investigation has been referred, and it has been prepared for three years in the Government Office. It is now high time for the government to deliver on this point. It is therefore gratifying that, later today, the House will approve motions from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, thereby sending an announcement to the government that the rules of search and seizure should be rapidly adapted to modern technology. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report as a whole. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to address a question to Maria Strömkvist, who represents the government parties in this debate. I respect the fact that the question of remote search means that complex balances need to be made. With this respect, however, I note that more than three years have passed since the government received the report from the Seizure Investigation on its table. My question to Maria Strömkvist is what measures the government has taken over the last three years to move the matter forward and when we can expect a bill from the government.
i-555a2b134126692e-445	Honored Old President! I'm sure there are many of us who took part in an Ekot review published on Monday. A young girl talks about how she has first been subjected to terrible abuse and then further is severely violated by the perpetrator – through a particularly regrettable gap in the law – being allowed to keep documentation on the abuse only because of how the material has been stored. I remember that in defence policy there is sometimes an unfortunate tendency to start from the last war fought and equip themselves for it, although the world is changing and the next battle will look quite different. Perhaps it is a disposition that is also to some extent affecting justice policy. All we know about the future is that we know nothing about it. But we can make intelligent guesses. We can and should also introduce better laws when conditions exist. As far as possible, we can seek to construct our regulations in a way based on principles rather than technology. Mr. Old President! Legal policy has a few serious shortcomings. I do not mean all the security problems that are increasingly present in many parts of our country, but more systemic problems, which in turn have certainly contributed to the growth of security problems. One of them is the lack of operationality. The Budapest Convention came into force 20 years ago. We only approve it today, despite the fact that the Alliance Government had a long way ahead of preparation for that process, which we have just heard from Mr Mikael's speech. The inquiry into remote search came in 2017. Every day without a new law coming into place, there are new violations of victims who are already severely affected. So, Mr. Old President, we can't have it. I understand there's a lot to do at the Justice Department. Something else would be indecent, given the major challenges that exist in the area of justice. However, if you claim to rule the country, you also bear responsibility for getting important legislation in place. Let me be absolutely clear: this is extremely important. Ideally, we would have already had a law in place, but since that is not the case, we should at least have been able to hope that the government parties could give notice today of when we can expect a bill. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case. I also note that representatives of one government party, the Green Party, are not taking part in the debate today. No shadow shall fall upon them. They've got a lot of work to do. In the small parties they often need to be in two places at the same time. But that is unfortunate, because I would like to ask why this urgent legislative proposal has not been considered a priority. We are getting a bit on our way today with the help of the Budapest Convention, but that is far from enough. As has clearly been shown, we need to change the law of search at a distance. However, we also need to create solutions to access evidence that may exist in countries other than those that acceded to the Convention. The challenges of this should not be underestimated, and that is precisely why international cooperation is so important. Instead of having to negotiate legal aid with each individual country, it will be enormously easier when common rules can be established. The EU system gets a lot of criticism, and sometimes it hits it really badly wrong. But there are also great opportunities to do good things. This and a lot of other things in the area of justice are extremely valuable. An important part of the Budapest Convention in the 2003 Additional Protocol is the criminalisation of acts of a serious racist and xenophobic nature by computer. I must admit, Mr President-in-Office, that I did not quite understand Mr Broman's reasoning in his speech on the question of why the Swedish Democrats do not want to tackle this serious crime that risks tearing our society apart and creating great contradictions. I would understand the objection if the convention was contrary to the Swedish constitution, but that is not the case. In fact, the same criminalisation already exists in Swedish law. We are not making any legislative changes now as a result of the Convention on this point. The question then becomes why the Swedish Democrats do not want to assist that point. Do the Swedish Democrats want to decriminalise the type of racist violations on the Internet that are already banned under the Code of Criminal Procedure, and if so why? These are questions you want to ask in this context.
i-555a2b134126692e-460	Mr. Old President! Today, as has been clear in the speeches, we are debating the bill on Sweden's access to the so-called Budapest Convention, that is, the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime, which entered into force on 1 July 2004. To date, 68 States have signed the Budapest Convention; Sweden signed the Convention on 23 November 2001. It has therefore taken almost 20 years for us here in Parliament to debate and this afternoon to decide on admission. One can really ask: Should this decision not have been possible earlier, and why has it taken so long? The Convention, as has already been mentioned in many speeches here, has three parts. It is first a matter of coordinating national criminal law. Secondly, it is important to ensure that procedural rules are in place to meet the need to investigate and prosecute cybercrime. The third is to lay the foundations for rapid and effective international cooperation in the fight against cybercrime. The Christian Democrats support the bill. However, the government misses an important aspect highlighted by, among other things, the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency and the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, namely the possibility of remote search. The seizure investigation submitted its report in December 2017. The investigation notes, among other things, that there is a very great need from the criminal investigation point of view for law enforcement authorities to have access to information which is not stored locally on a computer or mobile phone but which is stored elsewhere and which can be accessed via an information carrier examined during a search or after a seizure. This need will certainly increase further, as it is becoming increasingly common for information to be stored externally. This is done in storage or communication services that are often referred to as the cloud. The investigation said that it was therefore necessary to introduce the possibility of using an information carrier found under a search warrant or seized in order to gain access to information stored elsewhere. Furthermore, there is a need for an opportunity for law enforcement authorities to carry out an investigation into electronically stored information via communications networks and from their own technical equipment. Against this background, the investigation proposes to introduce a possibility for remote survey. The investigation was therefore completed already in 2017, but after that nothing has happened. The Government refers in the bill to the preparation of the proposal in the Government Office. That answer is not good enough. As both the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency point out in their referrals, the question needs to be clarified. The investigation was also very clear. It is proposed that remote search be allowed. The fact that it has not yet been taken care of is regrettable, and it must change. Mr. Old President! Like Mr Hedin, I would like to return to the beginning of this week. It was then a series of reports that highlighted the gaps in current legislation. For example, sex offenders can keep naked images of children who have been abused even after they have been convicted of crime by, for example, placing the images on a cloud service. There are shortcomings in the legislation that make it impossible for this type of crime to be investigated effectively enough, according to several experts. Even though the police had seized and forfeited, among other things, the perpetrator's computer and hard drive, he can manage to keep images of victims. These are pictures that he has been able to spread or threaten to spread online for several years. One problem that prosecutors highlight in the report is that they recognize this from countless criminal investigations. In practice, it would often have been quite easy for us to get to it, but we must not do what the law looks like in Sweden today," says the prosecutor in the report. Police can seize a suspect's computer. But even if the suspect is logged in via a cloud service, the investigators should not basically enter the accounts, as the information contained there is stored elsewhere and not locally on the computer. Experts say that the legislation has not been adapted to technological developments. To secure evidence from cloud services, therefore, a so-called remote search would have to be carried out. But, as I said, there is no clear legislation on this in Sweden. The interpretation by law enforcement authorities has thus been that today you do not have the right to access the suspect's account through a so-called remote search. Mr. Old President! I support the implementation of the Government's proposal in this debate, but I would like to stress that the Government must now listen to the announcement of further remote search possibilities, which are dealt with in the bill and which are based, among other things, on the motion of the Christian Democrats. Unfortunately, the reality shown in this week's report makes it clear once again that the government leaves investigations in the drawer without action for several years, despite the need for change in legislation to face a new form of crime. On the same day, the Minister of the Interior says that the report shows gaps in the legal system and that he sees a great need for the law to be changed quickly. But it is a fact that until now the government has not actually acted on this issue, despite the fact that the investigation has been in place since 2017 and changes have been requested by different law enforcement bodies. Mr. Old President! It would be better for Sweden if we had a government that acts on the basis of the needs of prosecutors and police officers and also goes ahead with legislation when investigations present what measures are needed to break an cybercrime under development. It is also remarkable that one gets upset about the situation and promises that the law must be changed quickly when the reality is that the government has had the opportunity to act for several years but despite an obvious and demonstrated need, no priority has been given to change. Despite the outrage, the Home Secretary was unable to answer when he believes that the law will be changed. Once again, Parliament must show the government that it is time to act. The investigation's proposal has been in place since 2017. We as legislators need to ensure that police and prosecutors have the opportunity to have the tools needed to stop cybercrime so that victims do not have to be subjected to repeated violations. I would also like to repeat the question to the representative of the government parties Maria Strömkvist: When will the proposal on the law come? If you are going to work actively, it should have been here already. My greeting is that it is high time that the government now carried out the mission announced today. This needs to be done with a greater priority and commitment than has been shown so far.
i-555a2b134126692e-481	Mr. Old President! Liberals believe that there are very strong reasons for Sweden to participate actively in international cooperation against cybercrime, not least in order to investigate and prosecute serious crimes such as child pornography in digital form. The Liberals therefore agree, as well as the government and the committee, that Sweden should accede to the Budapest Convention, which has been developed within the Council of Europe's framework for combating crime. After all, we work in Sweden, in the EU, in the Council of Europe and in the UN to find different standards for achieving efficiency. The more boundless the world becomes, for the benefit of citizens and our prosperity, the more crime can, unfortunately, move. And this has gained an extra power with digitalisation. As has been pointed out, work in the Council of Europe began in 1996. It was at the time when Göran Persson was Prime Minister in Sweden – it was actually the year when he succeeded Ingvar Carlsson. It was at that time that we started the famous Blocket service in Sweden, and it was at that time that we introduced a new 50. It has even been abolished since then. So this has been going on for a long time. These 1996 time cuts indicate that it was a different time. That was before digitalization. It was called ADB, if you remember, at first. It was before the world became connected, with great benefits for us citizens and our everyday life in terms of communication and transparency. However, we are now seeing how gross criminals have since and to this day exploited and exploited the possibility of rapidly moving their digital communications, or, for that matter, their criminal possession of property that constitutes crime in itself or crime tools. This was previously physical documentation, which it was very easy to seize. It was all about being right and there was a suspicion. It was enough to take away the criminal, such as the pictures and crime plans or whatever they had stolen. It can also be about intellectual rights in a positive sense. But now it is moved around between different media, not infrequently in constant motion. We need to work more together to protect freedom for the citizens, the decent, and not for the criminals who are engaged in exploiting the gaps in the law that exist. This quickly puts a lot of things in lightning. When the reserves from the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party are to defend their tenacity in taking up the issue of effective Swedish legislation in the area of remote search, they talk about balances that are difficult in terms of legal certainty, legal certainty and integrity. However, this is taken care of in the so-called Seizure Investigation, so you wonder why the reserves have been asleep for four years. We are not only seeing this on matters of seizure, confiscation and freezing, which are particularly relevant in this report. It applies to all electronic communications, camera surveillance and so on. It also concerns the highly topical subject we are hearing about on the news all the time now that the Swedish police have cooperation within Europol, and for that matter also partly Interpol, in order to be able to roll up the information received within the framework of Encrochat and crack that code and also the following Sky ECC. These tools are crucial to committing crimes. Criminal services and communication are stored in different places. But now this is broken. These are difficult issues, but the Liberals welcome the fact that we are now entering the Convention itself despite the time it has taken for the government to arrive. However, the Liberals also really want to criticise but also to appeal to the government now to do what it can to come up with legislation. Now we have solved the issue of saving and freezing things. But we must have a way for the Swedish police and Swedish prosecutors to have the right to access the criminal documents and documents and, for that matter, also the communication that is important in order to prosecute crimes effectively. Openness must not become the enemy of good. Mr. Old President! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-555a2b134126692e-493	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Government proposal and for reservation No 5 by S, MP and V on the prohibition of residence. In recent years, the Government and the Riksdag have taken decisions to increase security and security and to provide the judiciary with better conditions and tools to combat crime, but also to prevent and prevent crime and reduce the recurrence of crime. Correctional services have been given increased opportunities to take control and support measures for those who are released conditionally from prison. We have also decided in the Riksdag that the parole can be postponed to a greater extent for those who do not participate in or mismanage relapse prevention during their institution period. There are now opportunities to turn unpaid fines into prisons, and the Riksdag has also decided on increased order and security in the care of prisoners. In the Government's 34-point programme to combat gang crime, one of the measures is to investigate the prohibition of stay within the framework of the sanctioning system. With the change that came into force at mid-2020, the possibilities for control of the sentenced person are currently greater in the event of parole than in the case of probation. There are a number of similarities between these sanctions. It is about criminality with a criminal value at prison level, and in both cases it is prison care in the community that aims to exercise control so that the sentenced person does not relapse into crime. There is therefore a great value in the fact that aid and control measures follow the same decision-making regime. The proposals contained in the report provide for the possibility for the Prison Service to decide on a anklet to check compliance with regulations and to make the conditions for where the sentenced person may and may not reside clearer. They also mean that probation should be associated with supervision throughout the probationary period unless otherwise decided. In order to promote rapid and flexible management, it is also proposed that instead of the Supervisory Board, the Prison Service be given the right to issue decisions on supervision, regulations and measures in the event of mismanagement. In addition, proposals are made aimed at further strengthening the possibilities for the Prison Service to take control measures for those who are conditionally released from prison. The penal service, Mr. Old President, is the authority that has the best knowledge and competence to support and control the sentenced person who serves his sentence. It is therefore important that it has the means to adapt measures to the individual and to impose sanctions if necessary. As I understand it, criminalising the violation of a restraining order aims to increase the pressure on the individual for preventive purposes. However, I have doubts as to whether it will have the intended effect. If the offence is to be punished, it becomes a matter for the court, in other words expensive and slow compared to the possibilities of the Prison Service for faster sanctions. It also prevents the Prison Service's ability to work relapse prevention. In order to verify compliance with the stay ban, the anklet can be used. If the stay ban is broken, the conditionally granted freedom may be postponed by up to three months at a time. It is more effective than the criminalisation proposed. It also covers all those who are released on parole or sentenced to probation and are therefore not limited to meeting only gang criminals. As legislators in our area, Mr President-in-Office, we have a great responsibility to ask ourselves before every decision we make: does my proposal solve the problem we see? What is the purpose of a possible sanction? What kind of people do we want to see after they have served their sentence? How do we ensure that we get the best possible operations and outcomes at the lowest cost? Perhaps we should also ask ourselves the question: Is it the case that my solution to the problem creates other problems? Mr. Old President! It is our duty to ask these questions before, because the consequences of our decisions really affect individuals and society at large. We must and need to work with the hard and soft tools at the same time if we are to live up to our responsibilities in a legal society. We will work against the crimes and crime and with the people. It's not about seeing the perpetrator in front of the victim. Instead, it is about seeing the victim and doing everything in our power on the part of society to prevent more victims of crime and the consequences of crime.
i-2M7APPH2HhAoaPSYMDspRa	Mr. Old President! Today, we are debating the report on the Government's proposal for increased control and support opportunities for persons sentenced to probation. I shall begin by requesting the approval of reservation number 2. probation is imposed as an alternative to imprisonment, i.e. as a sanction for crimes the value of which actually corresponds to a prison sentence. In other words, the person gets an extra chance not to go to jail. The sentenced person is under the supervision of parole, and the probationary period is three years. The sentenced person must have regular contact with the care provider, who must check that the sentenced person is taking care, for example, of a treatment that is decided. The government's proposal means tightening up, and that is a good thing. Today, monitoring normally ends after one year, but with this proposal, monitoring will last for the entire probationary period unless otherwise decided. It is also good that the possibility of laying down conditions as to where the sentenced person may or may not reside is made clearer. The prison services should be able to decide on a anklet to check that the sentenced person complies with regulations. Instead of the Supervisory Board, the Prison Service shall be allowed to issue decisions on supervision, regulations and measures in the event of mismanagement. The aim of the whole change is to make decisions faster and more flexible. The government also proposes tightening up on conditional release from prison sentences. Mr. Old President! So far, it sounds like I think the government has done a good job. Yes, the proposals are in the right direction but far from sufficient. The government's proposal on mismanagement, for example, if the sentenced person violates a regulation, is far too weak, quite simply. In case of mismanagement, the Prison Service shall be allowed to decide on specific regulations or anklets. If it is not adequately assessed, the Prison Service shall be able to decide on a warning. Only when the sentenced person has seriously violated his rights shall a request be made to the prosecutor for the removal of probation. We believe that a stricter approach to the care of the sentenced person is needed. It is quite unreasonable that you should be allowed to misbehave several times without the removal of probation. The sentenced person has already had an extra chance at the sentence to get probation instead of prison, as I mentioned earlier. That is why it is a very good thing that we are being given an announcement to increase the scope for the removal of probation when a convicted person is misbehaving. It shall be sufficient for the sentenced person to break the law; it shall not be required to do so in a serious manner. Special prescriptions and warnings shall only be used in cases of poor care. Mr. Old President! We Moderates also believe that the Correctional Service should be allowed to take interim decisions on custody, which we refer to in our reservation number 2. In its referral opinion, the Prison Service has written that the authority must be given the opportunity to decide on care in case of mismanagement, or the Supervisory Board must be available 24 hours a day in order to be able to make such decisions. The prison service states that its ability to act promptly and effectively is extremely limited because the authority has no decision-making power on care. One example is if a convicted person is found to be in breach of the residence ban on Friday night. This may, for example, be the case of a person who is convicted of a violent crime and is not allowed to stay near the victim's home but still goes there. The prison services can then request the recovery of the police but thus lack the ability to retain the sentenced person. The sentenced person must be released, and there is no way of preventing further infringement. The convicted person can go back to and stay near the victim's residence on Saturday morning, be picked up again by the police, released, go back on Saturday afternoon, be picked up by the police, released, go back on Sunday morning – and so it may continue until Monday morning. It is only for the Correctional Service to wait for the Supervisory Board to reopen on Monday morning. This is unreasonable and could put the victim at great risk. One might wonder where the victim's perspective is. This must change. We Moderates believe that the Prison Service should be given the opportunity to take interim decisions on care which, for example within three days, should then be submitted to the Supervisory Board's review. Unfortunately, there will be no announcement of this today. The government apparently thinks it's good that a terrified victim becomes a prisoner for a whole weekend until the Supervisory Board opens on Monday morning. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about introducing a restraining order as a special and own sanction. In order to combat criminal groups, we want to introduce a new sanction for the person who has committed a crime, namely a ban on residence. This can be used for persons associated with criminal groups who have been guilty of repeated crime. The stay ban shall prohibit staying in a given geographical area for a certain period after the prison sentence. The violation of the restraining order shall be punishable. The Parliament has previously decided on an announcement regarding the prohibition of residence. Let us hope that the government does not drag this along, as it has done with many other announcements that the Parliament has decided on. It is urgent that the ban on residence should come about in view of the serious crime that is only growing and growing in Sweden. The government, led by Morgan Johansson, often says that it will destroy the gross criminality and boast of its actions. It doesn't work very well. In 2020 the shootings became everyday crime in Sweden; it was basically one shooting per day. Nowadays, they are so common that people just think, one more, and shrug their shoulders when they hear of shootings. Morgan Johansson also says that the government is doing everything in its power to combat serious crime. No, actually, it doesn't. The quantity discount is still in place. There will be no double punishment for gang criminals. On behalf of the Moderates, we have a lot of other proposals that the government does not take hold of but ignores. Instead, the government intends to introduce measures that will make it more difficult to find serious criminals. A very topical example is that the government wants to introduce maximum time limits for detentions. This is the wrong way to go. This is also the view of prosecutors and police officers who work every day to combat serious crime in Sweden. We Moderates have many proposals regarding legal policy, and I very much hope that the people of Sweden will ask themselves at the elections next year if they are satisfied with the development of crime in Sweden. At least it's not me.
i-555a2b134126692e-524	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 4. We are debating today more control and support possibilities for probation judges. The measures in the Government's bill are intended to prevent the group of probationaries from reoccurring into crime, something that is particularly important to counteract. The report contains a number of positive proposals, but I intend to focus on two of the measures that the Swedish Democrats see as important in order to prevent those on probation from falling back into crime. First of all, the Swedish Democrats believe that it should be investigated whether the monitoring boards, which today decide on measures for people who misbehaved during their parole or their parole, should be dismantled. In the bill, the Government proposes a number of revisions of the RACs' competences regarding which decisions are to be taken. This may be considered reasonable, albeit insufficient. An example of this is what the government states in the bill regarding care and collection. Among other things, the respondents noted a problem with the competence of the RACs to take decisions. Other bodies point to the problem of simply transferring the right to certain decisions to the Prison Service. Madam President, I would like This should demonstrate the need to transfer skills to the Prison Service and avoid problems with a number of decision-making bodies on these issues. We Swedish democrats therefore believe that there is a reason to further examine whether the RACs as a whole should be dismantled and all decisions transferred instead to the Prison Service, or to another authority where appropriate. Secondly, Madam President, I would like to say something about the requirements for the removal of probation. The proposal requires serious breaches of the regulations that have been issued in order to address the removal of probation. Here, like the majority of the committee, we want to go further and therefore, unlike the government, we believe that all infringements, unless they are minor, should form the basis for the removal of probation and for a prison sentence instead to begin. This should be seen in the context of probation, namely that it concerns persons convicted of crime. Precautionary supervision should be used restrictively, and the specific restrictions should always be respected. Even frequent minor infringements may form the basis for the removal. Finally, I should like to mention briefly that it is very gratifying that there is a majority committee to impose a ban on residence as a new sanction. Much more needs to be done in the fight against crime, and every step in the right direction is positive.
i-555a2b134126692e-532	Madam President, I would like The Center Party welcomes the fact that the government is now putting forward proposals for increased control and support opportunities for persons sentenced to probation. It is reasonable that crime prevention measures should correspond as a starting point to those available for conditional release. All the proposed legislative changes are steps in the right direction. If we look at the statistics for a moment, we can see that 60% of those on probation return to crime within a three-year period. In connection with cases highlighted in the media, it describes how persons sentenced to probation continue to commit crimes during the sentence period. Persons convicted of, for example, sexual offences against children online have been able to continue their criminal career in front of the computer during the period of service of probation. Already ten years ago, the judges who then replied to a survey from the Crime Prevention Council pointed out that the sanction should be reinforced by electronic surveillance. Electronic supervision in probation has therefore been in demand for a long time. Madam President, I would like The question of infringements and mismanagement of probation generally raises questions. Figures from 2010 show that almost a quarter of those sentenced to probation were reported to the Supervisory Board for mismanagement but that only 3% had the sentence removed and replaced by prison. Since then, unfortunately, the mismanagement of probation officers has increased and become more serious. In 2018, 17 per cent of those sentenced to probation mistreated their sentence to such an extent that the Supervisory Board notified the cases to the Prosecutor's Office for a review of the sentence of probation. Nevertheless, the result has not been the elimination of more probational sentences and the replacement of prison sentences. The credibility of the sentence of probation has, to say the least, been eroded. The Center Party is pleased that instead of the Monitoring Boards, the Prison Service is now given the opportunity to take decisions on many of the measures in the event of mismanagement. The change will hopefully speed up and simplify the process. Being sentenced to probation must be seen to a greater extent as a chance to manage an opportunity for freedom under responsibility. Mismanagement should therefore have consequences more directly and to a greater extent than today. Madam President, I would like Let us remember that probation is an alternative to prison. The person sentenced to probation has thus committed a crime whose penalty is at prison level. As a reason for sentencing probation instead of imprisonment, it is stated in the legislative text that there is reason to believe that probation instead of imprisonment can contribute to the sentenced person abstaining from continuing crime—that is, without being in prison. Here, therefore, the sentenced person is given the opportunity to serve the sentence without a custodial sentence. Instead, it can be about day fines, regulations on community service, and more. Criminal services will be given increased opportunities for monitoring, including electronic surveillance. Having said that, the principle of no mismanagement should apply at all. It is therefore a good thing that the Riksdag now states that the sentenced person should not break in a serious way what applies to the removal of probation. It should be enough for the person to have violated regulations. If the sentenced do so, the sentence remains to be served in prison. Madam President, I would like The possibility of combining probation with the condition of a restraining order is also a very important measure, not least in order to safeguard and increase the security of victims. The introduction of a restraining order under the sanction system is part of the 34-point programme against gang crime that the Center Party has been involved in negotiating. The measure is important not only in terms of curbing gang crime. It is particularly important for victims who have been victims of relationship violence – women and children – who in many cases live under a much longer-term threat. The possibility of a restraining order or instructions as to where the sentenced person may or may not be, as well as electronic surveillance, has an important signal value: it is the perpetrator, not the victim, who should be prevented, limited in his or her progress and get his or her life cut around. Madam President, I would like The very long-term threat that may exist for many victims means that the Center Party believes that an even more extensive restraining order should be introduced. The risk of relapse for the convicted but also insecurity and danger for victims can persist even after the end of the sentence. The fact that the sentenced person can then for a further period of time be prohibited from staying, for example where criminal gangs normally reside or where the woman whom the convicted person has abused lives, we believe is a measure that can both be crime prevention and provide security for victims. I am very pleased that a majority wants the government to come back on this issue. Madam President, I would like The focus on probation must be on whether the convicted person has the potential to refrain from continuing crime. In any case, it is not a question of seeking a non-convictory penalty for crimes that are actually at prison level on the scale of penalties. There must be a clear idea in the individual case that a minor penalty has a crime prevention effect, and the sentenced person should be willing and able to contribute to a change in behaviour. The focus shall not be on granting conditional freedom to persons who commit crimes of less than one year's imprisonment and thus the possibility of continuing to commit crimes. Madam President, I would like The proposed legislative changes are a step in the right direction, but the need for a more comprehensive and accurate system of probation sanctions remains. I therefore request the approval of reservation 3.
i-555a2b134126692e-546	Madam President, I would like You should be able to trust Sweden. Regardless of where in the country you live, it should be a matter of course that you should be able to get a job, have access to the welfare and feel the security of the police being at your side. This is not the case everywhere in Sweden today. Since 2014, the proportion of people who feel that they have been exposed to crime in the last year has skyrocketed. According to the National Security Survey, several categories of offences against persons are increasing. Threats increase by 37 per cent, harassment increases by 37.5 per cent, fraud increases by 39 per cent, assault increases by 28 per cent, sexual crime increases by 140 per cent and personal robbery increases by 100 per cent. The latest police survey shows that there are 61 vulnerable or particularly vulnerable areas in Sweden. These are areas where people cannot live in freedom and security and where criminal groups characterize the local community. These meet the police by force. And they blackmail traders and other local actors. Madam President, I would like The Government has submitted a proposal to the Riksdag regarding what is commonly called a restraining order, i.e. that a convicted criminal should be prohibited from staying in a given area. The government does so after the Christian Democrats in 2019/ 20 pushed through an announcement with such a requirement. The Christian Democrats also demanded that a restraining order be included in the gang talks held in autumn 2019. These talks collapsed after the government was unable to deliver proposals for sufficient measures, but thanks to the proposals introduced into the talks they nevertheless led to a full list of actions. This is dealt with in the bill that the Government has now submitted to the Riksdag. This is a shining example of the government's lack of action in criminal policy. The proposal submitted is far from sufficient and will not be fully effective in tackling crime. A restraining order is a crime prevention measure as well as a relapse prevention measure. The main reason for introducing a restraining order is to access the locally-affiliated criminal gangs located in the suburbs of major cities, which are primarily responsible for the massive increase in gun violence in Sweden. This would mean that persons convicted of locally-affiliated crimes could be prohibited from returning to that place. They would then be kept away from their criminal gang, which in itself would weaken the gang but also make it more difficult for the individual gang member to return directly to a criminal lifestyle. It would also contribute with a breathing hole that promotes rehabilitation. Therefore, it is with great surprise that I read that the stay ban should apply only to those who are on probation or are on parole. 75% of the sentenced in Sweden are in prison for a year or less. That means a parole period of a maximum of four months. The fact that the person who belongs to a criminal network is to be kept away from his criminal environment for just four extra months will hardly mean the blow to the gangs that the government believes. In addition, what was proposed in the Bill Reinforced Relapse Prevention in the event of conditional release has recently entered into force. What is proposed in the bill A clearer link between conditional release and participation in relapse prevention measures will also soon enter into force and means that conditional release can be postponed in more cases. This means that the more neglect a person shows in prison, the shorter the parole will be. In the long run, this means that the more misbehaved a person is, the shorter the person's stay is prohibited on release. This becomes counterproductive because it is reasonable to assume that the misbehaver in prison will also relapse into crime at the time of release. Madam President, I would like Instead, the Christian Democrats advocate a different model in which the length of the stay ban is determined when the penalty is measured. The prohibition of residence shall also be valid for longer than the period of imprisonment. Police efforts to recover particularly vulnerable areas will take many years. It shall be reflected in the length of the stay bans. The Christian Democrats also want a different model for parole, where the probation period is to be determined when the penalty is measured. There should always be a transitional period between the time in prison and the time in freedom. If a person misbehaves so seriously in prison that much of his parole is consumed, the time under the supervision of the Prison Service is also consumed. Therefore, an extended possibility for post-prison detention and surveillance measures should also be explored in these cases. Such a measure shall be predictable for the individual and communicated in connection with the judgment. It should be made clear that care and surveillance measures will be applied even if the individual is not released on parole. The system advocated by the Christian Democrats is similar to the Danish system. There is the ban on staying at least one year and at most ten years. Those who violate a restraining order risk up to two years in prison, but the normal sentence is 60 days. It would have been fun to discover if the government had gathered knowledge from the outside world, which is customary to do a in redeployment is under the national look. However, it is lacking in the redeployment which forms the basis of the government proposal. It is not a hidden knowledge, but it is widely distributed in Sweden through the media. However, the government has once again chosen a very moderate criminal policy path. Madam President, I would like There are two announcements in the report. The first is that the Prison Service should be responsible for the possibility of eliminating probation. We support the announcement. We are also in favour of reservation 2, and I am in favour of this reservation, which is that the penal services should be given more opportunities to take interim decisions on care. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that there is support for the second announcement. The proposal put forward in the proposal to clarify the possibility of providing for conditions as to where the person who is on parole or sentenced to probation may or may not be present is certainly a step in the right direction, but in our opinion, and a majority in committee, this is not enough. The Swedish Parliament has previously issued an announcement to the Government on the introduction of a more extensive prohibition of residence in order to counter criminal groups and to access the locally-affiliated criminal gangs located in the suburbs of the major cities. As I have explained in the past, we Christian Democrats believe that a restraining order is a tool for dealing with criminal developments, often gang-related, as we see in our society. It is positive that a majority in the committee shares this assessment. Against this background, there is reason to make a new announcement to the government, which involves a mission to the government to return with proposals for increased possibilities of stay bans. Madam President, I would like I support the motion by the Christian Democrats and the declarations proposed by the majority of the committee, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-555a2b134126692e-562	Madam President, I would like I asked for a reply when I listened carefully to Mr Kihlström, who described the probationary period for a sentence and that the subsequent period of the stay ban is short. Mr Kihlström argues that this can only be a trial period of four months, but that is not true. It is a false premise that the probationary period is only about the time you have left. A convicted person always has at least one year's parole, and the sentenced person can thus be banned for at least one year – not the shorter time that a member of the Kihlström reported. I would like clarification on this point.
i-555a2b134126692e-564	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Carina Ödbrink. I'll admit my lack of ability to answer, and I'll check the question. The information I have says a maximum of four months, but I can respect that I may be wrong. Nevertheless, it is important to raise the issue of the relationship between parole and mismanagement. There is a risk that the new proposals will mean that the period of parole will be short, and then the ban on stay will be correspondingly shorter. Does Mr Ödebrink see a risk that decisions on supervision will also be affected if a prisoner is misbehaved in prison?
i-555a2b134126692e-568	Madam President, I would like I do not see the risk pointed out by Mrs Kihlström, but I think it is important to keep track of developments and to adapt legislation to developments. Now we are making changes that mean that there will be a similar decision-making system when it comes to parole and probation. The possibility of controlling a restraining order should be increased. That's good. But I also think it is a good thing that, when you are in the speaker's chair, you have access to data that is consistent with what it looks like in reality. In conclusion, however, I would like to ask Mr Kihlström, in relation to the prohibition of residence, whether it is more important to have a strong policy of symbolism or placards showing that they are prepared to take tough measures or whether it is more important for measures to be taken by the Prison Service in relation to control measures and sanctions for those who violate a restraining order. What's more important? Madam President, I would like Member Kihlström describes it as the gang talks collapsing. I would rather call it that the Christian Democrats were unable to stand up together to take responsibility and find broad solutions to these important and complex problems.
i-555a2b134126692e-572	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Mr Carina and the undersigned have different views on how we face crime in Sweden. We note that after you have been in government for one and a half terms of office, crime has not been broken. We can also see that the gang talks that were held made few concrete proposals. Much of the policy taken by the government rests on proposals that have come from announcements. This is also the case in this situation, namely that the background to the proposal on the stay ban comes from a declaration. We want to be a party and act, and we believe in the solutions we present. It's not placard politics. Placard politics is about taking credit for what is being carried out and at the same time saying that what is not being implemented depends on the former alliance government. We are open to suggestions that are taking the journey forward so that we meet the gang criminality that exists. I believe that the ban on staying in the current proposal, based on the report's announcement, is a clear step towards meeting the increased gang crime that exists in Sweden. Unfortunately, the government has not made the necessary decisions to deal with the problem. We hope that the government will listen to the announcements. By the end of the next election, we can have a government that takes crime seriously.
i-555a2b134126692e-576	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that we are getting a little hot when we are debating criminal policy. I invite you to the lines of everyone present! Madam President, I would like Prudential supervision is an important sanction. It is not as you might think, as sometimes simplistically, that you are either in prison or not in prison in Sweden. The idea is that there is a breadth in the sentence to make it effective. There are times when people, who live on the shadow side of society for various reasons, end up in crime. The cause may be evident in the form of an abuse; gambling, alcohol and alcohol abuse or drug abuse. But it may also be that the person has a reduced impulse control that makes him prone to violence. Then there is probation with contract care. Protection can be combined with fines and imprisonment for up to three months. Then it becomes more a question of the person getting help and support with the standards and rules that it has been difficult to adhere to, which can be due to an in the worst case completely underlying disease, addiction or problems with all sorts of things. Alcohol, violence, gambling and addiction go together. Protection supervision is therefore an important sanction, which is also based on the fact that we invest heavily and have incredibly good people in the Swedish penitentiary – in this case not least the parole – who work with these people and try to motivate them to come out better after the sentence. They should stop, maybe continue their treatment and then come back to life. Liberals welcome this bill. We think it is very good, not least because we ourselves pushed on through the years to get more clarity and rigour in this issue of probation. There is an announcement here, which the Liberals are supporting, that we should be somewhat stricter in our view of how to behave. Of course, we shouldn't take any probation away from a person who rides against red. That is not even punishable, Madam President. But we will make sure that it is as clear and as simple as possible and that there is a number of rules to stick to in order to encourage this person to behave. We do not think there is any reason to skimp that clarity in this legislation. That is why, together with others, we have announced to the government that it will have to come back with a stricter view of carefulness, which must be stated directly by the law. We have a reservation from the Liberals, where we think that if the individual who is the subject of probation is not being treated properly, one must be able to act in a flash with great clarity and give the Prison Service the interim confidence to immediately pick up this person. It may then be subject to review, either at the premises of the supervisory body or in the courts, as appropriate. We also want the government to come back with this, but there is no majority there. I support that reservation, Madam President-I will come back to what it is. Then there is the question of a restraining order. Here too, I think it is a good thing to announce to the government, which the Liberals are behind, that we must make it very clear that people can be functional in another environment and in another geographical area. What it looks like now, described in any trial involving gang crime, is the pressure on the vulnerable people who end up in crime to deepen their criminality. It will be very much easier for those with a stay ban. If they are released for probation or, for that matter, come out after served prison time at the Prison Service – this applies broadly – they should get to, yes, why not Norrland and plant forest? There is a shortage of people who do so in Sweden. But they should not hang in the environments and areas where they have previously committed crimes and destroyed the lives of others and themselves at furious speed. It is very good that we announce to the government that it must return and work more broadly on the issue of a restraining order. It's good for the convicted, who to make things easier for themselves and others should not stay there. However, it is also a good protection for victims, as mentioned earlier in the debate. We make sure that people who have been victims of crime do not have to meet people who may have abused them severely. There are advantages to this from a victim perspective as well. Having said that, Madam President, on behalf of the Liberals, I am in favour of Amendment No 2 on interim decisions on care and otherwise of the proposal.
i-555a2b134126692e-590	Madam President, I would like Chemical substances are fundamental to our society. They are part of all materials and goods and are inputs for all branches of industry. But they can also adversely affect people and the environment. In the past, industrial emissions and high concentrations of single hazardous chemicals dominated. Now risk management is about lower concentrations of many complex mixtures of chemicals that are diffused and to which we are constantly exposed via food, water and the indoor environment. Limiting the risks of chemicals is complicated. These are many thousand subjects where the need for knowledge is great. An individual country finds it difficult to evaluate and regulate substances and products on its own. That is why work at European level is important. The EU has a comprehensive chemicals regulation, REACH, but also rules in areas that do not fit within REACH such as pesticide regulations. Sweden's line in the EU-wide work on chemicals has been clear and consistent for a long time. This follows from the broad political consensus that exists here in the Swedish Parliament on the importance of the safe use of chemicals for people and the environment. In particular, it concerns the protection of children, young people and pregnant women as they are particularly sensitive to chemicals. The target for Sweden's chemical work is a non-toxic environment. In order to achieve this objective, an effective EU-wide regulatory framework is crucial. In October last year, the European Commission presented a new chemicals strategy that tightens up the current rules and their application. The strategy holds a high level of ambition and has clear Swedish footprint. This includes the ambition to treat dangerous substances in groups according to common characteristics and to focus more on chemicals in goods. Madam President, I would like In our review report, we in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture highlight a number of issues that we want to give the highest priority in the future action work. The phasing-out of particularly dangerous substances must be speeded up. It is necessary not only to protect human health and the environment but also to enable circular flows of materials. It is therefore appropriate to prohibit the use of those substances in all uses. EU legislation remains largely focused on exposure to individual substances. It is important for the Commission to give more priority to work on the group management of similar hazardous substances. Steps have been taken in the EU for a group assessment of substances, for example for PFAS, but this development must be much faster. Hormonal disruptors have a particularly serious impact on human health. Yet the use of these substances in society is increasing. These developments require urgent and vigorous action. Madam President, I would like Non-toxic cycles are a prerequisite for a circular economy. EU common legislation needs to be developed to take better account of chemical aspects throughout the life cycle of products. In addition, incentives are needed for the green transformation of the EU chemical industry. The chemicals strategy includes measures to support innovation and research into safer and more sustainable chemicals and materials. In this way, important steps can be taken to achieve not only circular solutions but also enhanced competitiveness. Sweden has for several years been calling for stronger information requirements in the EU regarding chemical content in goods. It is therefore positive that the Commission now wants to drive forward the work on product information for consumers. Digital product passports are an important component of this work. Madam President, I would like EU chemicals legislation needs to take much more account of the risks of so-called combination effects. This work has been slow in recent years but is now taking off as the Commission has now undertaken to assess how the REACH Regulation can work with mixtures of substances. The strategy also proposes a new approach – A more coordinated and transparent process is a good thing, we believe, but it must not lead to delays in implementing the chemicals acquis or limit Member States' ability to take initiatives. The growing e-commerce and new technologies enable us consumers to shop directly from manufacturers in countries outside the EU, which legally means that consumers become importers and thus responsible for the product's compliance with the legislation in force. The Commission, ECHA and national authorities must work together to address this challenge. Madam President, I would like If the EU is to have a chance to achieve a non-toxic and sustainable environment, chemical work must be integrated into all relevant legislative areas. The aim of a non-toxic environment cannot be a trace of the chemicals strategy itself, but must also have a place in several of the Commission's other strategic efforts. Sweden has repeatedly called for action at EU level to increase environmental concerns in pharmaceutical manufacturing. The Commission shall address pharmaceutical issues within the framework of a pharmaceutical strategy for Europe. We believe that environmental issues must be given a prominent position in this work. We also want to highlight the importance of promoting a non-toxic environment in the future strategic framework for health and safety at work. It is extremely important to minimise the risks to workers exposed to high or long-term chemical exposure, and the EU needs to establish further measures to address workers' exposure to dangerous substances. Finally, the EU needs to act globally for a new post-2020 agenda for chemicals and waste, and it is positive that the strategy includes efforts to drive forward the international work on chemicals. Madam President, I would like Sweden has had a great influence on the EU's chemicals policy. A clear political will has been fundamental. The formation of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, scientific support and a strong commitment from both environmental movements and progressive companies have also played a role in the progress. In the implementation of the EU chemicals strategy, we will continue to be a strong force and drive a non-toxic environment.
i-555a2b134126692e-611	Madam President, I would like We are in fact in complete agreement with this review report, which I also support. But we still need to talk about this with an increasing use of chemicals. With increasing use of chemicals, there will be greater responsibility for which chemicals we spread and how these affect the environment and people. Some chemicals have been shown to affect us negatively with substances that can cause cancer and allergies or affect the possibility of having children. It has also been shown that children are particularly sensitive to the effects of harmful chemicals, as they are still growing and their organs are not fully developed. It is therefore important to reduce the risk of our children being exposed to harmful chemicals found in certain toys, sofas and kitchen utensils in preschools, for example. Here the Alliance has laid a good foundation for a chemicals policy that will hold for the future. Perhaps it is time we took another step in this particular area. Madam President, I would like Products on the Swedish market must comply with applicable legislation and must not pose a risk to people or the environment. Market surveillance is therefore necessary to maintain healthy and fair competition. It is also a guarantee that products that do not comply with EU requirements are not allowed to compete out legal alternatives. Market surveillance shall be resource efficient and thorough. These checks are currently carried out by means of planned visits to manufacturers, importers or retailers, but only a small proportion of goods and products are checked. The problem of non-compliant products appears to be greatest among products imported from third countries. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate compared 87 equivalent products, which showed that the proportion of products with banned substances was highest among products from e-commerce companies outside the EU. 43% of the goods purchased from companies outside the EU contained banned substances. For me as a parent of young children, this is extremely important. You get fed ads for how to buy toys online and so on, but the goods may contain prohibited substances. Now I am myself trained in the field, but the question is whether everyone has sufficient knowledge. This is an EU-wide problem. Increased cooperation between national regulatory authorities is therefore essential to ensure that goods imported into the EU meet essential requirements and safety. This is a jungle. We all know how many people order goods online, perhaps from Wish or from some other instance. We need to get to grips with this and try to find appropriate measures to take. Moderates believe that consumers need to be more aware of the risks in order to be able to make more informed decisions. Therefore, we would like to commission our own chemical inspection or other relevant authority to inform the public about the presence of banned chemicals in products imported from third countries. It is therefore also positive that the EU highlights these issues in its work. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention something about the approach to toxins. We are constantly surrounded by toxins in nature through animals, insects, plants and more – natural toxins that we humans make as synthetic copies and also used when we produce our own innovations and inventions. These are both naturally occurring and man-made substances that can have a toxic effect, and they often have a function or purpose. It is therefore also essential to examine whether the removal of a product or service can be carried out without creating new problems, which in turn may even be greater and more serious than the original problem. Some toxins are dangerous even in small doses, while others are taken care of and broken down in the body or by organisms in nature as long as the dose is not too high. Small doses of poison may be necessary in medicines, for example. Some substances are dangerous in a given form or in combination with other substances, while otherwise they are harmless. One such example is zinc, which is vital to many organisms and is used as a marketing argument for walnuts, but it can be harmful to aquatic organisms. Another example is chromium, a metal that for man is nerve damaging but becomes a harmless alloying substance in steel. With this in mind, one cannot generally say that all toxins are dangerous or that we do not want them around us. Even unwanted toxins can be acceptable if they do not lead to harm but are useful. It is more about the ability of man and nature to take care of the substances, break them down and purify them. This plays an important role for which poisons we can accept to have around us. Madam President, I would like Neither humans nor nature's ecosystems should be adversely affected by toxins by the human factor. That is why we should aim more at using concepts such as a non-toxic approach or a risk management approach rather than a non-toxic approach. Perhaps we should think about it when we discuss these issues. Poisoning should be seen as one of several tools to achieve the goal of not poisoning man or the environment. We must be able to distinguish between acute suspicions and proven problems that need to be addressed directly and hypotheses that can be further investigated before action is taken. Today, too little distinction is made between scientific facts and hypotheses in certain areas, and this may have unforeseen and negative consequences. Sweden shall be a country characterised by well-informed decisions based on scientific facts. That is why the cooperation we have today through the European Union is so important, as is the opportunity to examine, influence and look at the various areas. Madam President, I would like There is, as I said, considerable research into the impact of chemicals on the environment and human health. But the research that exists is usually done on one subject at a time. The fact that research has so far looked like it does depends on the structure of the legislation. Therefore, research on so-called combined effects is largely lacking – what happens when several different chemicals cross. The chemical mix to which people are exposed today is becoming increasingly complex. It is therefore a good thing that the European Union too sees this and gives priority to these issues, which are also highlighted in this opinion. We must set high standards in order to reduce the amount of dangerous chemicals, not least for our children's sake. We need a sustainable chemicals policy with a toolbox containing various measures to achieve the goal of a non-toxic everyday life. Together we become strong when we work on these issues.
i-555a2b134126692e-627	Madam President, I would like When the Committee on Environment and Agriculture recently presented its report on the vulnerability of agriculture, it became clear how broad perspectives we as politicians need to think into different contexts. Securing agriculture and increasing food security is about so much more than bringing plant protection products and feed to animals. For the individual farmer, it is also about access to skills, robust electricity supply, broadband and navigable roads, but also about the profitability of companies, which makes investments possible. These are important lessons. I am thinking, among other things, of how the problems of long-term environmental permit processes affect companies as well as the environment and thus our welfare. Madam President, I would like Public procurement is a powerful tool for change that we politicians can control. Thanks to large and long-term purchases, the public, if the right requirements are made, can steer consumption in a more sustainable direction. At present, environmental requirements can be imposed on procurement. However, we believe that this should be done to a greater extent and that knowledge of these opportunities should be disseminated. This is not so widely known. Today, for example, a bid can be evaluated on the basis of a life cycle analysis. It's very interesting from a climate point of view. But, as I said, everyone may not know about it. Our ambition and belief is that the public must strive to act in a climate-smart way. Then it is also a question of there having to be instruments that work together with this. An example of the opposite was when an authority last year would buy in 1 000 used monitors. That's a good ambition. They turned to a company that said you could deliver but had to import some of the displays because there was not enough in Sweden. However, the monitors imported are subject to a special tax on electronic products, even though they are used. Then the imported displays became so expensive compared to brand new that the authority did not think it was worth the price but instead chose to buy brand new pieces. In this context, it is important to know that a monitor requires about 520 kilos of carbon dioxide, as much as a flight Stockholm – Rome. Another issue that is important when discussing companies' opportunities is ownership. There are probably many who associate Moderates with that question. That is quite right – we believe that you care for and manage what you own and that you want to leave a well-maintained product for future generations. However, not everyone knows that this is also considered a human right, which is protected by both the form of government and the European Convention. Ownership rights thus have a very strong legal protection. It is also explained that, in the interests of the general good, there should be a principle of proportionality, which means that infringements must be balanced against the damage caused to the victim. This sounds good. But what is serious is that more and more landowners and entrepreneurs, especially in green industries, believe that ownership is being eroded. This is particularly true in forestry. These are signals that several parties in Parliament have noted, and therefore both the Committee on the Environment, Agriculture and the Constitutional Committee have in recent years called on the government to review this and strengthen ownership rights. We were therefore many who had high expectations of the forest investigation that was to be presented and that came last year. Unfortunately, however, it did not live up to expectations, not even to its nickname, the Ownership Investigation. The National Federation of Farmers even believes that the proposal of the investigation risks weakening ownership, and the Center Party, which has been proud of the investigation and its directive in the January agreement, has declared that they are disappointed. In the next step, I connect to this with permit processes. Many companies today testify to long processing times when applying for environmental permits for activities that could create environmental or climate benefits. Uncertainty and long waiting times lead to higher costs but can also affect companies' willingness to invest. It thus hits Swedish growth and competitiveness, but also the environment. In West Sweden, for example, a major industrial company wanted to change its environmental status in order to reduce its environmental impact. But it took them years to get a necessary decision that included setting up solar cells and investing in it. They did a similar process in another country. In that country, it was only six months before the permits were in place and they were able to start improving the environment and climate for all of us. This is, of course, unreasonable. The Moderates are therefore pushing for activities that choose to invest in climate and environmental improvement measures to meet a process that is simpler, more predictable and more efficient, while at the same time preserving environmental protection. We believe that the red tape and long processing times today limit companies wishing to take greater environmental responsibility. Actually, that's what it looks like. This applies, for example, to Överuman Fish in Storuman. They wanted to move their fish farming to a new place in the same water system because it would be better for the environment. This would also mean that they located the fish farm a little further away from local residents. That state of affairs process has been going on for seven years so far. This has still not gone through all the instances. It will probably also be tried in the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal. What will happen to the flagship Hybrid and fossil-free steel production? Both SSAB and H2 Green Steel have said that the new climate-friendly steel will be on the market in a few years' time. But the other day, Swedish power grids clouded the joy when they said: Since the new steel plants will mean that Swedish electricity production will increase by 50 per cent, it must go to new power plants, and an extension of the lines and grids must take place. This is expected with work and permit processes to take about twelve years. But then we know that the task of time may not be likely. I'm just saying the Southwest Link, where by now the start date has been postponed 20 times. The issue of permit procedures and environmental testing is, to be honest, an issue that involves all parties in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. But we Moderates do not see very concrete results. We started to address this issue in 2016, and then there was a majority in the Riksdag for the government to take action. Now there is an investigation that will report its mission at the end of the year. Consider the legitimate demands of businesses for simplicity, efficiency and predictability. I'm a little concerned about what happened to the ownership investigation. This is what we want for the sake of future generations, the environment and our welfare. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 5.
i-555a2b134126692e-641	Madam President, I would like We are debating today a somewhat fragmented report which contains many important issues. I will confine myself here to a few of the issues in which we in the Swedish Democrats also have reservations. Madam President, I would like It is now over 20 years since the Environmental Code was introduced, with in principle today's licensing system. Just a few years after this was decided– I think it was the year 2000– the problems and shortcomings began to be addressed. We can now see that in recent years the Riksdag has issued an announcement almost annually about the need for faster and simpler permit processes. However, work has been slow and the measures have largely failed. Sweden constantly needs investment, not least in order to cope with the transition to more sustainable production. And it is not least a question of a living countryside. At the same time, many entrepreneurs are witnessing major problems in balancing environmental interests with investment needs. A proper balance must be found between investment and environmental legislation. And the environmental requirements must have a positive impact on the environment, which is not always the case today. For the same reason, permit granting processes for new and expanded operations should be speeded up while ensuring equal treatment regardless of country or authority. Smaller companies should not have to have contact with more authorities than an absolute minimum in order to cope with or expand an activity. In addition, we believe that all authorities that work against entrepreneurs in the country should be given promotion tasks, where they strive to help entrepreneurs and at the same time facilitate compliance with environmental legislation. An investigation is now under way to deliver its conclusions in December this year. We look forward to the conclusions and hope that this will lead to progress, but it will take a few more years. We in Sweden are proud of our industry and our export industry. But the question is: Would we have had this industry in Sweden if it had previously been as difficult to do business as it is today? It takes a long time to get permission to make investments. I am very doubtful whether we would have had the industry we are proud of today if we had had this legislation in the past. Madam President, I would like We also want to highlight the issues of property rights. It is worth emphasising that the presence of a local population is what creates access to nature for visiting people from near and far. Without existing agriculture and forestry, businesses would not be in place. Above all, there would be no road network. In addition, a countryside without fields, pastures and animals has much less attraction. A living and farmed countryside is needed for many of the species that live in Sweden as well as for developing tourism. Profitability in the agricultural industries is therefore crucial. We therefore believe that land should be excluded from farming only after a very careful examination. Decisions imposing restrictions on use must, of course, be subject to appeal by the landowner. Expropriation as well as restrictions on the use of private owners should be avoided at the longest, as it damages the confidence of landowners in long-term self-investment. The state is a big landowner. In our opinion, generally owned land should be used primarily for public purposes, such as nature conservation. Just as important as compensation is to be paid with the shortest possible delay after the decision on restricted use or ownership has been taken. Where compensation is not paid within a given time frame, the decision shall be deemed to be revoked. The government should set appropriate timeframes for this. Madam President, I would like In this context, it is worth mentioning the very generous compensation paid to the environmental and nature associations lobby in Sweden. While these organisations are largely financed by the state, they use their resources to process against government decisions – decisions that have often given landowners the right to hunt or carry out forestry. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency annually receives a contribution from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to process the issue of wolf hunting in court and to pursue the issue in the EU. We believe that this payment should be stopped by the Government giving directives on this to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse Amendment No 15.
i-555a2b134126692e-655	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of my speech, I would like to support our reservation 13 under paragraph 10. Madam President, I would like We often boast in Sweden of being a forerunner in the environmental field in terms of our ambition to build a society where we have as low an impact on nature as possible and our ambition to hand over a society without environmental problems to future generations. We also boast of having done much of this work earlier. We often say that we have come a long way in Sweden, but we want to go further. Madam President, I would like That's probably in many ways a truth with modification. There is still much to be done in the Swedish environmental work. Of course, we are an example to many countries that may have taken very few and short steps towards a sustainable society. Of course, we are an example for countries and communities that do not have expanded waste management systems and that do not have regulations in place to deal with environmental damage or threats to the environment. But there is still much to do in Sweden. Above all, Madam President, there is much to do if we want our work to protect the environment to go hand in hand and work seamlessly with the development towards an even richer and better society. There are a lot of these challenges that we are discussing in this debate: how will Swedish environmental work play with economic development, with the companies that operate, with the companies that want to develop natural resources in Sweden and for those who use Swedish nature? This debate is largely about using without consuming, and here, Madam President, there are great steps to be taken. Unfortunately, I think that we are increasingly getting caught up in a discussion where we see the practice as a problem, something harmful, where we find it difficult to take in the profits that exist with long-term use. We seem to see a lot of activities that benefit society as something that is environmentally dangerous and fundamentally harmful. I and the Center Party do not think this is a sustainable way of developing a sustainable society, Madam President. There are some examples in the report by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. A large part of what we have debated in committee and a large part of the proposals that we are dealing with are about more efficient licensing processes. How do we deal with those who want to carry out an activity that can have an environmental impact, or where at least you need to ensure that we do not have a negative environmental impact or that we minimize the environmental impact, something that I think we all think is self-evident? How do we ensure that the safety valve of the process and control does not become an obstacle to growth and does not become an obstacle to anyone who wants to build a better and richer society? It is no secret that we have a lot of concerns about this, and that is why I am glad that, as a result of the January agreement, we have had an investigation that looks at these very issues. It has been asked many times by Parliament and I do not think anyone in this House is against it. But I'm glad it's actually coming to the fore now. As I said, the goal is that the state process, the safety valve, should not be a lock, but a safety valve. You should not look at these state processes with concern, but you should be able to know how it is done. There should be a certainty regarding the expected outcome, and you should know how to provide the information that allows you to get as fair and accurate an assessment as possible. There are things to improve here. Madam President, I would like We have debated the environmental system many times before in this House, and I think that my colleagues are getting rather tired of what I say here, namely that when we set the Swedish environmental objectives, the goal was that we should not hand over environmental problems to future generations. But as I usually say, Madam President, the next generation is already in the speaker's seat. We're already here. It is me and my yearmates who are the coming generation who would not get environmental problems in their laps. What is important, Madam President, is to ensure that the next generation does not end up in this situation, and here we have a lot of challenges to face. We have jointly tried to address some of these challenges through the Environmental Objectives Committee's report, the Sea and the human being, which was delivered before Christmas. We are now moving from marine environmental issues to looking at climate emissions and emissions from our consumption. I think this is welcome, Madam President, because here we have some of the major challenges in which we see that things are not moving in the right direction. Having said that, there is one thing that I and the Center Party think needs to happen for the next term of office, and that is that we stop looking at the Swedish environmental objectives systems and the international goals of Agenda 2030. We have to stop dealing with them in different processes. In this House, we are inspired by the Swedish environmental objectives system. It's praiseworthy. If we meet our colleagues who work locally, they are inspired by the sustainability goals of Agenda 2030. That is where you have the living political work. That's where you trigger the living political force. Madam President, I would like It is not reasonable for us to work in different systems and to measure on the basis of different yardsticks when we also know that we have the EU's environmental ambitions as a third track in this. We should realise that this is an unnecessarily complex situation, and if there is anything that I think we need to do when we look at how we develop Swedish environmental work and environmental protection systems, it is more linking these three tracks. There are approaches to this in the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but we did not come all the way. The best thing would be to have the same grounds for judgment and let these play with each other. Above all, in the Swedish environmental policy system, we should also reflect on the ambition of several dimensions of sustainability contained in Agenda 2030. It is not only about ecological sustainability but also about social and economic sustainability. We must be able to balance different conditions. It is not just about the ecological conditions, it is not just about the economic conditions for people, it is also about the social conditions. It's a whole. It could also have meant a more sensible basis for assessment just when we look at permit processes and how we should look at businesses and companies in our society. One must be able to balance the different dimensions of sustainability. It does not help to save the ecological conditions of a country if we then make it impossible to develop the living conditions of those who live there. It is not enough to just look at how the companies are doing in a part of Sweden if we at the same time forget about social and ecological sustainability. This is a unit, and this should also be the case in the Swedish environmental work. Madam President, I would like It's time for me to round off. I had hoped to be able to say a few things about noise, which is what I have called for in our reservation. But I'll have to save that for another day.
i-555a2b134126692e-671	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for another performance! It is always very interesting to listen to what Magnus Ek has to say. This time, too, I agree with a great deal, perhaps precisely with regard to Agenda 2030 and whether it can be incorporated in some way into the environmental objectives system, just like the steps we took in the study on the Sea and Man. We started, but we did not come all the way, as the honourable Member points out. This is something that even we from the Moderates bring up. In fact, we believe that the Environmental Goals Council should be tasked with simply identifying these environmental objectives in order to bring those who run counter to each other. Then we can get a better structure to work after so that we can coordinate the target structures. We very much agree with that, and I agree, as I said, with what Magnus Ek made further. There's one thing I'm still tinkering about. Magnus Ek says here that we often promote the use as something harmful, that we should use without consuming and also that the use must not become an obstacle to growth. There is one area in which I find that the Center Party does not stand up for these principles, and it is about peat. The peat is currently used for energy but above all as a growing substrate for 280 000 or if it is 380 000 forest plants each year. If we do not use domestic peat, we must import coconut fibre, which is devastating for rainforest plantations but also for the climate. Why not peat, Magnus Ek?
i-555a2b134126692e-675	Madam President, I would like It is kind of Mrs Malmberg to say that she thought it was a good speech. One could imagine that the honourable Member has started to tire out after we have worked together for almost three years, not only in this House and in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, but also in the Environment Targets Committee and locally at home in Östergötland. Thank you for that. I shall then turn to the questions. I'll be back in the peatlands. But I'm gonna stay a little bit by this by getting out what's going on. I believe that this is a good ambition. If we have an ambition to try to sort out the environmental objectives, which may run counter to each other – that is, when we have goal conflicts there – we should realise that the goal conflicts do not stop at the environmental objectives themselves. What we have to deal with and what we often fail to deal with is the conflict between the three different sustainability dimensions: social, economic and ecological sustainability. That's where I think we have the real challenges. This applies, for example, to individual forest owners where we find it difficult to balance this and where there is also an enormous frustration for those who want to use without consuming. But now it feels like authorities don't have this confidence in users anymore, and in this case for foresters. This also applies to larger companies. The Balancing Commission has been set up for this, that is to say, how we can resolve conflicts of interests that arise in a more sensible way. Target conflicts often exist between the environment and climate, but they can also be between the environment and economic growth. And we from politics have a responsibility to help with that. As far as peat is concerned, I do not know whether we are in any way opposed to the use of peat. The big discussion has been about how this is to be defined. Is it a renewable resource or not, or is it something in between? From the Center Party we have said that we are trying to follow and value this. We are very pleased with the initiatives that exist, for example, to offer to re-weigh parts that are broken up while continuing to use them. Member Malmberg is absolutely right that Swedish peat is very important in horticulture and forestry. The alternative is not only coconut but also really bad fossil alternatives from, for example, the Netherlands.
i-555a2b134126692e-681	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mr Ek's view that this is not just about when there is a collision in the environmental protection system, but actually when there is a collision between the other three sustainability dimensions that we usually forget to talk about, which is very unfortunate. So there's no water grave in between. I am also pleased that Magnus Ek here points out that peat residues may have significance. Although Magnus Ek has not followed this discussion, you support the committee's position at this stage. And the committee's position actually says that this is not something we should concern ourselves with. For peat, too, it is a matter of permit processes that can last for tens of years. Here, too, it is a matter of being unpredictable. We hear that they are definitely not effective. They're not easy either. I am not standing up because it is only a matter of peat use here that is important. It is also a question of disseminating information. Today, it is in the course of the journey that when peat is consumed – you just take peat on ditched land, not on new land – you restore it by making wetlands or making climate-friendly solutions in other ways. Somewhere here, I think the message does not go forward, which is unfortunate. We have peatlands in Östergötland. This peat use has a value that we actually have to take on board.
i-555a2b134126692e-685	Madam President, I would like I believe that Mrs Malmberg has described this in an essentially correct way. We obviously do not agree with today's report where we take different positions. It's clear to everyone. I give that point to Mrs Malmberg, so to speak. There is also an important point to make here, namely that concrete environmental benefits can be found here when looking at the peatlands that have been ditched. The peat industry is not a unit, but it is relatively unanimous in that there is a lot to work with when it comes to rewetting straight off. The industry has said that it is willing to reinvigorate some directly and be able to continue to use what is already ditched and then restore it at the end, as Mrs Malmberg mentioned. To be honest, the Center Party wants to find ways to solve this. That is the position we have taken on this issue. We have a rather tricky discussion linked to the European processes concerning precisely the definitions of what is renewable and what is not. Here I know that parts of the peat industry have a different view and think that one should be classed as something more renewable. I do not think we are going to sort this out in the Chamber today. But it is worth noting and pointing out that we are seeing this debate and following it. Just because you do not classify a certain thing as entirely renewable does not mean that there should be no room for sustainable use of this resource in the ways that Mrs Malmberg has talked about. There are a couple of other things that I would also like to raise here. This is one thing that we have not emphasised so far, that is to say the environmental values that require use. It is about what I mean that I think we are slipping wrong when we always see it as an injury. A large part of the species that we have on the Red List depend on a landscape and, above all, an agricultural landscape that is claimed, that is, cultivated. The fact that they are on the red list is not about us having used too much, but about the fact that agriculture has changed so that we usually do not have enough. We argue in a different way, or we claim less than we did two generations ago. I don't go with a lie, but my grandfather did. How on earth do we meet that challenge? That is something that the policy has not yet responded to.
i-555a2b134126692e-690	Madam President, I would like As we have heard earlier in the debate, the system of environmental objectives needs to be changed, not least in order to achieve it. When the new environmental objective structure was developed, the proposal wrote: Assessments of the possibilities to achieve the environmental objectives should be made from an overall perspective. When the achievement of the target is now evaluated by the authorities, it is noted that the targets are practically impossible to achieve, despite the fact that Sweden, regardless of the government, has conducted a very ambitious environmental policy. In the most recent environmental objectives follow-up, only 1 out of 16 environmental objectives was considered achievable with agreed instruments. At the same time, the achievement of objectives is assessed independently of other societal objectives. And an unattainable goal unfailingly leads to proposals for new instruments, despite the fact that such instruments often run counter to other social objectives that have not been specified at the same level of detail. The environmental objectives thus become superior other societal goals, and not infrequently on a collision course with them. The authorities that decide on and work on the issues that determine the achievement of environmental objectives are the same ones that evaluate the environmental objectives. It is inappropriate for the authorities to assess their own activities in practice, especially when it has such major societal implications. An independent organisation, independent of other environmental authorities, should be required to evaluate how environmental objectives are to be achieved. Another problem is that environmental objectives are defined in such a way that they cannot be achieved in practice. For example, the clarifications are interpreted as meaning that no species should be threatened. For various reasons, it is impossible to achieve with Artdatabanken's definitions of endangered species. Many species are threatened because they are rare, and rare species are naturally lost in all ecosystems. With the interpretation of this and other clarifications, the objectives cannot be achieved, even in theory. For example, there are currently no measures that could be taken and that lead to the environmental objective of living forests being considered to be achieved. Under the current conditions, the system loses credibility. It is therefore important to review the environmental objectives in order to ensure that they are actually achievable. Environmental objectives also need to relate to other societal objectives and take into account the overall picture in the evaluation of the objectives, as stated in the bill. Madam President, I would like When asked what is the most important means of managing the transition, the forest industry is clear – a secure ownership. In recent years, ownership in the forest has come to be threatened in several ways. The application of the Species Protection Regulation and the key biotopes concept as well as the investigation proposal on the right of associations to appeal against logging decisions are examples of this. The Aarhus Convention, which Sweden has implemented and which aims to ensure public participation in decision-making processes and to provide access to justice in environmental matters, attaches great importance to distinguishing between the public and the public directly concerned. The Aarhus Convention is incorrectly interpreted when it is not the directly concerned public that is heard, but organisations that do not live and work in the field at all. Unfortunately, a few weeks ago we received a judgment in the Land and Environment Court pointing in the completely wrong direction. Here it was an activist organisation that had notified the landowners after submitting a logging notification. Thus, the judgment states that individual organisations with very clear agendas can review the rights of both private and private companies regarding the use and ownership of their own forests – but also state authorities' decisions regarding the land use of private individuals and companies. It is baroque, Madam President. This, if anything, points out very clearly that the over-implementing of the Aarhus Convention which we have been trying to get the government to grips with for a long time now needs to be addressed. The government seems to want to say to the landowners, it's okay if you own the forest but not that you use it. In this way, the Swedish forest is secretly socialized, something that must be resisted. Since 2007, the Species Protection Regulation has been in force. In recent years, the authorities have interpreted this regulation more and more extremely. As the Species Protection Regulation is written, it is possible for an authority to stop virtually all forestry measures. The Species Protection Regulation is issued with the support of the Environmental Code. This means that the authorities can restrict the use of their land by forest owners in principle unlimited and still not be obliged to pay compensation. The right of the landowner to fair compensation must be guaranteed, Madam President. We have to change, and we have to do it now. There is a great deal of consensus on this. An important factor in this, as many point out, is to identify opportunities for short industrial condition processes. Here, not least, industry is really on its toes because it wants to change, but then the state is slowing down instead of giving industry a boost on the road. Industrial conversion is one of the most important pieces of the puzzle, and the government knows that. It is recognised in the budget proposal that the need for shorter processing times for environmental permits in trials against the environmental code is important, but it is very slow. There's an announcement ready since the Parliamentary Session 2016/17, so just go ahead. But the government is holding back and blaming you for having to collect statistics. Industry is not asking for statistics, Madam President. Come on, let's go! In 2011, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management was established. The agency took over tasks from the former Swedish Fisheries Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and is responsible for the management of fisheries resources and environmental objectives for the seas, lakes and watercourses. During the Authority's short-lived life, initiatives have been taken that should be seriously questioned. Among other things, the Authority wanted to introduce a state tax on individual sewers despite the municipalities exercising adequate supervision over sewers. For many years, the Agency has been working to introduce mandatory traceability requirements in fisheries, and in 2019 it entered into force, albeit after considerable delays. The Agency's work has been based on an over-interpretation of a Regulation establishing a system to ensure compliance with the common fisheries policy. No other country has introduced a mandatory traceability system. The effect has been that Swedish fishing companies have had major problems. In daily consumer goods trade, some operators have had to refrain completely from selling products covered by the scheme. As a result, consumption has been directed towards fish caught in third countries. Madam President, I would like We would need to have a full debate only on how the authority acts on issues relating to dams and hydroelectric power plants. The provisions of the Basic Law on ownership do not seem to apply to small-scale hydroelectric power plants either. The water management authorities have for a long time pushed individual power plant owners and stretched the application of the legislation, to the limit that the parliament had to make new law. This is clear that the authorities are to amend their guidelines and regulations so that Sweden fully applies all simplifications and exceptions permitted by EU law. In addition, it was decided to introduce simplifications for small-scale hydroelectric power. All of this was assigned to the water authorities as a three-year mission already in 2017. Now the mission would have been completed, but unfortunately we can see that very little has been done in terms of simplification. On the contrary, it has been made more complicated than before. Water authorities completely ignore what the legislator has decided by blaming the Maritime and Water Authority, which in turn blames the water authorities and the EU. No one wants to take responsibility for the current situation, but everyone blames everyone. A year ago, we took a new decision in the Riksdag to facilitate and promote small-scale hydropower. This time the government has not complied with the majority of the parliament either. Madam President, I would like As far as the water authorities are concerned, we Christian Democrats believe that the possibility of transferring their activities to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Agriculture Agency should be investigated. The related missions should incorporate a promotion mission towards the industries operating in the sea and water. The promotion mission should clarify that the activities should not only verify compliance with rules but also facilitate and support businesses. With this, I would like to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation number 20.
i-555a2b134126692e-710	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report MJU13 Horizontal environmental issues. As several of the previous speakers have mentioned, the report deals with general exercise time. It's a great variety of questions. The bonuses concern environmental permits, environmental testing and supervision. They also concern property rights, green infrastructure, public procurement and the organisation of public authorities. Democracy issues related to justice are also affected, as are contributions to environmental organisations and the work to prevent environmental crime. Madam President, I would like When the Environmental Code was created by the S-led Government under Göran Persson, it was done in broad collaboration with the then parliamentary parties. Then the environmental code was intended – and it is now – to be a tool for us to be able to test the impact of different activities on the environment, other activities and third parties. At the same time, the Environmental Code is an important tool for us to be able to achieve the environmental objectives set by the Swedish Parliament. On the climate issue, the responsibility for climate and climate policy has been a feature of this House's work for some years. It has also been expressed for some time in Swedish law, adopted in broad agreement here. We believe that it is extremely important to shorten the processing times in permit trials and clarify supervision, in order to increase equivalence. Therefore, the S-led government assigned a special investigator to review all relevant legislation, including the Environmental Code, so that the agreed climate policy would have an impact. The aim is to create better conditions for Sweden's environmental and climate goals to be achieved. The mandate shall be finalised on 15 May 2022 and an interim report shall be presented on 1 December 2020. The Government has also appointed the investigation A modern and effective environmental review, which will review the current environmental testing system and propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental review. The study will focus in particular on measures to facilitate investments that contribute to climate change or that reduce the environmental impact. This applies, for example, to the modification of product processes, reduced energy consumption and reduced emissions, which is crucial for us to be able to change society, make the industry greener and together get a more sustainable focus. The investigation shall, inter alia, assess whether the scope of permit testing changes and notify changes that contribute to the reduction of the environmental impact of existing activities may be extended and, where appropriate, propose the changes necessary to achieve a green track. The investigator shall also assess whether, under certain conditions, a notification procedure can replace the authorisation procedure where an activity or change in activity cannot be presumed to have significant environmental effects. The investigator shall also evaluate certain aspects of the role and organisation of environmental assessment missions, such as issues of process management and whether it is appropriate to concentrate the examination of certain types of cases on a smaller number of environmental assessment missions. The investigator may also propose other changes to current environmental testing systems that enable and contribute to a green transition through more predictable and efficient permit granting processes. The mission will be presented to the government by 15 December of this year, 2021, so we will return to this House with the questions. According to the budget debate for 2021, when we debated Category 20, we, i.e. the parties included in the government base, particularly highlighted the importance of the authorities' work on licensing. In this year's budget, we have also increased the funding to county administrative boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for the important work. Madam President, I would like The Government decided on 11 March, on the same day as we amended the report, to instruct a special investigator to review the review processes and regulations in order to ensure a sustainable supply of innovation-critical metals and minerals, which is crucial for the green industry's transformation. The mineral industry is an important part of Swedish industry, is the basis for Swedish exports and is of great importance for Swedish jobs, companies and welfare. It is also of great importance for the development of special parts of the Swedish manufacturing industry. It is also particularly important in order to achieve credibility in order to cope with climate change. As green and smart technologies become increasingly common, there is also an increasing need for many innovation-critical metals and minerals necessary for wind turbines, cars and electric cars, plasma screens and other electronics. It is now in demand and will be increasingly demanded when the world changes to a fossil-free society. At the same time, mining and minerals often have a significant impact on the local environment, and the mining and minerals industry often encounters conflicting landowner interests in the affected areas regardless of where in the country it is located. This is why it is particularly important for policy to be decisive in terms of competing land interests. We need these innovation-critical minerals and metals. Nor can we credibly continue to import such minerals from developing countries or from China that do not meet our requirements on working conditions, labour law and, for that matter, environmental impact. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to bring about these changes in review processes and regulations so that a greater proportion of the value that comes from the mining and minerals industry will also benefit the country and the climate transition. As an example, we would like to highlight the need to clarify what should be included in an application. In Västerbotten there is an application for a mining company that seems to have been on the county board's table for 36 months. The reality is that it has been on the county board's table for four months. After four months, the case was referred back to the applicant for additional information requested by the County Administrative Board under current legislation. The company has not returned to the county administrative board, and it is therefore only four months that the application has been lodged with the county administrative board. We need to clarify what is actually to be included in the application in order to shorten the time. A clear and good example is Northvolt's application for environmental testing for the Northvolt factory up in Skellefteå, where in so far the shortest time for this type of facility has been granted all permits granted by the review authorities. This is because the applicant has been responsive, prepared, aware of the demands made and has been very helpful in submitting the supporting documents to the review authority that the authority has requested. That's how we think it should be done. One should be prepared for what is actually going to happen, and we need to clarify what is needed. Another important issue concerns the testing of wind power. The Government commissioned a special investigator to investigate, among other things, the municipal veto. We can see that the municipal veto may not be the problem, but it is the predictability of wind power processes that is the problem. We need short periods of time and to ensure that the municipalities have an early influence. We also need to ensure that long processes are not stopped at the end. I note that there is a reservation from the Left Party here, but since they are not in the debate, they will not ask for it to be approved. But we want to make it clear that we stand up for municipal influence in this area. When it comes to motions on forestry and property rights, work is now ongoing between the January parties on the basis of the ownership inquiry that is currently being prepared. We will come back to this in this House, and that is for sure. These issues are important, not just for the Center Party. I would like to remind the House that the division of the party by the Social Democrats in 1917 was largely due to the view of ownership. We want to make it very clear that we stand up for the ownership and constitutional purpose – the clear instructions of the constitution in this area. With that, I can see that there is much to do and we have a lot to look forward to. Thank you for the floor.
i-D9DNwCRwKs3Q1CtAQMYQWj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for your speech. It's not without a feeling that the government intends to stack investigation into investigation. Isak From told me here about how to work with, among other things, environmental trials and permit processes, and I wonder if I didn't get it together, when I listened, to three different investigations that are going on in parallel. A friend of order remembers that it looks the same in the water area where investigations are carried out in parallel. But the problem is that at some point these must be synchronised. What does it look like? I think it is interesting, when we hear this now about various directives and everything, that there is something called processing times. That's a lot of what it's all about now. The processing times are completely inconspicuous. Even in Sweden, which is one of the main nations in register management, there has not been an opportunity to get to this. I'm surprised. Politics must come to decisive decisions. Yes, I totally agree with Isak From that! We need to land these investigations. But how are the issues dealt with? How will the government ensure that there is actually something concrete to consider so that these investigations do not run counter to each other?
i-ND8wtLrrqkiCjQF8cxTdqF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the questions! We can see that the alliance government often had high objectives. But it also managed very clearly to create conflict-of-laws, disputes that have been expressed in a number of court proceedings. Often when this House tightens up the objectives of Sweden's environmental work, it takes a number of years before it ends in long court proceedings, and we have undergone and are currently undergoing a number of such. That is why we in Sweden have adopted the basis for legislation that we have. We are going to investigate what we are going to do, we are going to have a broad consultation procedure and then the policy is going to take a stand. Right now we have a new political situation here in Sweden where we have to relate to the cooperation we have with the Center Party, Liberals and the Green Party. We need to take a position on these issues together. And it is, as Betty Malmberg says, a basis for many investigations now. Another reason is that we cannot have the situation that we actually have. We have therefore taken hold of this and set up the investigations to actually get some order on the croft.
i-Nicfkaf3dagcsZzT9M2foA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for your answer. The fact that the alliance government would be the problem in terms of the fact that there have been target conflicts may well stand for Isak From, but I do not think there is any evidence for that. The thing is that the Social Democrats have now been in power for many years, but they have not grasped the issues, even when there has been a majority decision in parliament that has appealed to the government to do something. In 2016, 2018 and 2019 there is a majority decision that the government should return with something when it comes to permit processes and environmental trials, but did not say Nicke. There the government has turned a deaf ear, and that is what causes problems. To now try to correct the state of things and get a better order by adding investigations to the right and left is also a challenge, I would think, as I follow this in the water field. Isak From says here that you only need to have better ground. For Northvolt, it was like it was on rails. They all got their permission. But I see here that on 19 February 2021 Beowulf Mining says that it is 14 years since they submitted their first permit application. If no one has been able to guide them with what premises should appear in their application, it is disastrous. I would like to ask Isak From a question. Now we have Hybrid, SSAB and H2 Green Steel Mining. When does Isak From believe that they will be able to process their fossil-free steel, which Sweden and the climate really need? When, Isak From?
i-555a2b134126692e-745	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty. We were on the issue of ownership and can of course note that the Alliance Government presented the Bill Borders in Forests, which highlighted the mountain forest as particularly worthy of conservation. This rendered 2015 in the so-called Änokdom. It was rendered in a long number of damages proceedings against the state, which this government now manages within the framework of the January cooperation. As far as environmental permits are concerned, especially in the case of mines and mineral mining, we received a judgment in the Supreme Court linked to an application from North Kärr, which actually changed the conditions quite radically. Now the application needs to describe, according to the Supreme Court, a significantly larger area of influence. This means that in principle no application could be granted. This is also why Ibrahim Baylan has initiated an investigation to ensure that we can mine minerals in Sweden, that new mines can be opened and that this should be done in a long-term sustainable way. When it comes to Hybrid, LKAB, H2 Green Steel in Boden and Northvolt, it depends on whether they have all the data when submitting the application. If they can answer to the review authority, they will receive the permits.
i-555a2b134126692e-747	Madam President, I would like The policy of the Green Party is based on solidarity with animals, nature and the ecological systems, but also with future generations and all the people of the world. Environmental policy is the basis of our policy. At all times, we want to prioritise the environment and climate to create the conditions for our children and grandchildren to live a good life, have access to fresh air, clean water, a climate in balance and a nature teeming with life. I would like to begin by calling for the draft decision to be approved and thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate in place of my colleague, Maria Gardfjell, who has been prevented from attending. I have a background as an environmentally-driven municipal politician. Even in my role as a member of the Transport Committee, climate and environmental issues are what I work with most. Sweden has systematically developed environmental work, which has developed over the past 50 years, and the last six years, with the Swedish Green Party in the government, the pace of work has increased. The clearest examples are that the climate policy framework has been decided, that a multi-annual environmental budget has been adopted, that strategic cooperation with industry to create roadmaps for climate change is formed and that Sweden has strengthened its role in international environmental policy. Not all measures and decisions always produce immediate results. It might be good to keep in mind. But effective environmental work should produce long-term results. Sweden, Madam President, will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Collaboration is a key to success. Active environmental work carried out by government and parliament as well as regions, municipalities, industry, organisations and individuals is well placed to be successful. And it always needs, of course, committed environmental parties. We know that from experience. It is we who put the question first when everyone else in the room sees it as a question among everyone else. Environmental target work is the basis for strong environmental work at all levels in Sweden. The environmental objectives define the ecological dimension of the UN's global sustainability goals at national level. The environmental objectives are the environmental objectives adopted by Parliament for systematic and comprehensive environmental work. Evaluations show that several of the environmental objectives are difficult to achieve. That is why environmental policy needs to be refined, developed and, not least, tightened up. When the global sustainability goals are reviewed, it has been shown that maintaining and developing nature's ecosystem services is a prerequisite for achieving other sustainability goals. In particular, objective 14 on marine and marine resources and objective 15 on ecosystems and biodiversity are fundamental to achieving other objectives, including those on social and economic sustainability. Conservation of biodiversity is also the basis for achieving the climate target. It shows a scientific report from IPCC and Ipbes. There is a great potential to improve coherent governance towards environmental objectives. The structure of the objectives is described in the report as well as the instruments in which the authorities evaluate the objectives, where overall evaluations are made of the Environmental Objectives Committee and the Environmental Objectives Council. That's very good. Through monitoring and evaluation of the government's performance report, the Committee on Environment and Agriculture has for several years taken a very active part in this work, and this is positive. In the latest in-depth evaluation of environmental objectives, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency points out that work on climate and biodiversity needs to be a priority of national environmental objectives. There is a need for both rapid and vigorous action on both climate and biodiversity. What we in the Green Party want to highlight is to work to implement environmental policy in a broad sense and not to put a stop to it by setting one environmental objective before another. We can see how business players now have the ability to reconcile ecological and economic sustainability and not set the climate target against economic development. It is a fundamental approach that is also needed in the political debate. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a knowledge-intensive and export-dependent country that can greatly benefit from achieving global sustainability goals by actively participating in international collaborations, contributing knowledge and innovation, inspiring others and setting high demands on import products. The prerequisites for achieving a larger export market are an important incentive for business players to invest in climate- and environmental-driven business development and innovation. We can be forerunners and lead the way. Once the Environmental Objectives Committee has begun its new policy, the role of industry to export climate benefits is one of the issues of consumption-based emissions that will be discussed. The Moderates therefore entered open doors the other week when they wanted to give the Environmental Goal Investigation a mandate it already has in practice. The policy we implement will not just mean a change for us as a green welfare country. It can also be a green tear start that can reproduce in the rest of the world. In the previous economic crisis, banks were saved. Now the focus needs to be on the environment and climate and to secure the living conditions for future generations. Madam President, I would like Wind power today has an important role in Sweden's energy supply, and that role will have to grow as the transition to a fossil-free society progresses. It is the right of municipalities to decide what kinds of activities are appropriate in different parts of the municipality, and it is an unwavering part of municipal self-government. The new study on how to streamline the assessment of wind power is about municipalities being able to steer at an early stage through their plans and not through arbitrary veto decisions. While wind power contributes to energy production in the national system, we in the Green Party believe that the climate transition must be fairer, and therefore we are pushing for the property tax paid by wind power to be transferred to the municipalities. It is money that can make a big difference in the local economy. We hope that more parties will join that line. Madam President, I would like During the year, several irregularities in waste management have been highlighted. The government is pushing for order and disposal of the waste. Illegal waste management is both dangerous and totally unacceptable. Sweden should have an environmentally and health-friendly waste management that safely takes care of hazardous substances so that we get a non-toxic circular economy where resource-efficient and non-toxic cycles are a starting point. The rules need to be tightened up so that individuals and companies cannot make money from inadequate or illegal waste management. It must be made easier for regulators to intervene when they suspect that the legislation is being used and thus be able to reduce the risk of taxpayers having to bear the cost of recovery measures when operators go bankrupt. It is important for the municipality or individuals not to bear large costs if a company goes bankrupt. Mr President, I would like to Citizens' right to environmental information, participation in decision-making processes and access to justice are key elements of the Aarhus Convention. Since Sweden ratified the Aarhus Convention in the late 1990s, we have stood up to increase participation. Now we see how individual parties here in Parliament work against openness, dialogue and participation. It is frightening with this environmental resistance now 50 years after the Stockholm Conference and when many believed that there was a consensus on environmental policy. We in the Green Party stand up for the opportunity of environmental organisations to contribute to our joint work for a better environment. Of course, we also stand up for an increased dialogue with the business community in an orderly manner. Fossil-free Sweden is an initiative to achieve a broad consensus and climate-driven development where many different actors participate. The Green Party is needed in Swedish politics so that together we can move towards the more sustainable future we long for.
i-555a2b134126692e-770	Mr President, I would like to This matter is particularly important to me. It is about young people who are in a very difficult situation. It can be threats and violence, addiction and addiction as well as other things that are destructive and destroy. It destroys for the kid, and it risks destroying for other people. Being placed in a special youth home is not a first-hand measure when it troubles the young person. It is when all other support measures have been tried and are not sufficient that placement in a youth home becomes necessary. So the kid has a lot in his luggage when a Sis placement becomes relevant. I have met many of these young and especially Stefan, who was housed in my family, with my parents, for some time. He had a close life-long experience of contributions from the public, but still there were recurring Sis placements. He often escaped and again ended up in a merry-go-round of abuse, violence, and criminal acts. There are many who have had it like him, and many have it like him today. There is much we need to do from the public to provide early support and help to parents. More coordinated action must be taken so that the meshes in the protective net do not grow and become large holes. We have many and good efforts, yet we do not always succeed. We must succeed with all children and young people. They're our future. Mr President, I would like to The matter we have gathered in the Social Affairs Committee concerns efforts at Sis' special youth home. Later this spring, we will come back and discuss the various actions of social services and what is needed to strengthen prevention, early intervention and good support as problems grow and coordinated action is required from many different quarters. Today, however, care at youth homes is the focus. Mr President, I would like to For a long time, the Social Affairs Committee has seen shortcomings in social care for children and young people. We have called Directors-General and the government to the committee many times. It's not about isolated events. These are structural deficiencies in the operation. We must therefore do greater, more thorough work to improve the conditions for young people who are placed in special youth homes. If you're placed in Sis juvenile care, you're supposed to be better off. However, there is violence against places, violence between places and violence against staff in several youth homes. It is a situation that requires strong action, and it must happen now. It is the lives of young people who work there, and the staff who work there must have a good working environment so that they can do their job in the best possible way. A united social committee has listed a number of areas in which we believe that the government must take action. Much has been done, but it is not enough. We want the government to return to Parliament no later than 1 August and then present what it intends to do and a timetable for the measures. Anyone placed in a special youth home usually has a difficult problem. Neuropsychiatric disabilities, addiction, and co-morbidity are common. This means that the staff must have the necessary skills to provide care to those placed in that situation. Staff must also be provided with continuous, high-quality training. The basic skills need to be reviewed, and more skills are needed than today at youth homes to cope with the problems faced by young people. Mr President, I would like to In particular, the situation of girls must be taken into account. Not least, there are differences when coercive measures are used and differences in, for example, separation that need to be examined. The aim must be to avoid the need for coercive measures. Children's rights perspective must be strengthened within Sis. Young people should have knowledge of their situation, and a notification of abuses must, when it comes, always be followed up. You have to reconnect with the young so that they see that it matters when they react. The Sis school activities have been developed and good development must be maintained. School is important for all children and young people. If they miss the school, there will be far-reaching consequences. Sis also needs to strengthen leisure activities, which must be there when the school day is over and on weekends. The placement time should be as long as necessary based on the young person's situation. A coordinated post-location plan must be carefully prepared and followed up for a long time. Aftercare and support should be provided for a longer period so that the young person has a lasting improvement. They'll be better off. Oversight also needs to be reviewed as well as several other things. I am pleased that we have taken this initiative jointly in committee. We have listed a large number of areas where change is required. The government is now going to tell us by 1 August how to get a better youth care. Investing in children's growth provides the best future. We need to invest in every child's upbringing. It is my hope that this broad initiative will help to improve the placement of young people in special youth homes.
i-555a2b134126692e-785	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Today we are debating the situation of children and young people located in youth homes within the State Department Board, Sis. Sis offers care and treatment for forced-placed young people aged 13 to 21 years. Sis is also responsible for young people sentenced to closed youth care, which is known as LSU. Mr President, I would like to Being placed at Sis-hem means that you have been the subject of many contributions from social services in your own municipality before being placed. There have been various kinds of support, in school, in the family and directly towards the child or youth, efforts that have not given the change that was desirable, so when the youth is finally placed in a Sis-home there are many failures behind. There is a lack of confidence in the adult world, and many times they have been betrayed. Sis therefore has a difficult mission, but an extremely important one, in which it is important to build confidence in young people so that it can contribute to a positive change. It means a lot when treatment is successful and youth regains faith in the future and progresses in school and can break with a destructive life. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, it has emerged that several Sis homes do not live up to what is expected of them. Children and adolescents are mistreated, and instead of being strengthened, young people are broken down. This is something that has been brought to the attention of television and the media, which is a good thing, but such shortcomings must be stopped immediately. That is why a change must be made. During a visit to the committee, the Director-General of Sis has described that there is extensive work going on within Sis to strengthen security, but also to provide security for both prisoners and staff. These efforts are very good and in the long term create greater stability in operations. But the young people who are currently placed in Sis homes and mistreated cannot wait. Therefore, a proper overview of the entire business is needed in order to redo and do the right thing. Mr President, I would like to Staff should be the most important resource in this work, but unfortunately too many people at Sis homes do not meet expectations. It has emerged, for example, that in several Sis homes there have been staff who have violated, beaten and locked up children for long periods of time. These are frightening examples of staff misused their trust and powers. Sis-hemmen certainly have a right to separate a placed youth who is a danger to himself or the environment, but to use separation as a treatment method in a routine manner does great harm. The staff's competence needs to be increased considerably, and Sis needs to work much more with values issues and special training the staff in client work so they have the right tools to meet the young people. The status of working in Sis must also be increased, and greater support should be created for those employees who are doing the right thing and providing good treatment, in terms of career paths and perhaps even increased wages. Mr President, I would like to The second thing that needs to be improved is, just as the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs was on quality monitoring. Then I am thinking primarily of internal control. It should not go so far as to violate young people, but to create a culture so that managers who are close to them quickly tackle the problems that arise. Lex Sarah notifications must be followed up, and IVO supervision must be strengthened so that abuses are not only pointed out but also addressed. Sis must also create opportunities for young people to point out abuses. When we have a Convention on the Rights of the Child and the work of the Social Services is to be characterised by placements based on the best interests of children, there must be tools and systems within Sis that allow you to listen to the young people placed. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, cooperation between placement social services and Sis needs to be strengthened. Social services must continuously monitor treatment and monitor how it works for young people. It is not good enough, as has happened in some cases, that social services have no contact with young people for several months, sometimes even up to six months. Cooperation between social services and Sis is also required to make it a functioning life for young people even after a Sis placement. Here the care plan needs to clearly describe the objectives of the treatment and what a functioning lockout and aftercare should look like. Are young people really going to return to their home environment? There may not have been any change in the family or the environment in the district. In order to succeed after treatment, young people may need their own apartment or move to a family home in another city. All of this must be there for a treatment to succeed. Mr President, I would like to In addition to social problems, many young people at Sis-hem also have diagnoses and needs for bup treatment. Here the care chain needs to be strengthened so that the youth does not get rid of their bup-contact at the moment he or she is placed in Sis-hem. Mr President, I would like to Like the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I also understand that school activities are working very well. That is something we should really continue to invest in, and in fact Sis is doing a pretty good job today. Comprehensive and upper secondary education is one of the most important health factors for all young people and not least those placed within Sis. My own experience from the profession is that about 5 percent of the young people who have been placed in the department take the student. There are too few. All in all, it must be pointed out that the task of community care must always be to put care and treatment before punishment. The young people who grew up in poor families have not chosen this themselves, and the focus of community care should be to give people a compensatory effort that can repair a broken up childhood. A location in a Sis home should be the end of a destructive life and not a continuation into deeper crime or mental illness.
i-555a2b134126692e-802	Mr President, I would like to Participating in this debate arouses many and strong feelings in me. I am happy as well as sad and frustrated. I am pleased that we in the Social Affairs Committee have been able to reach a complete agreement on demanding the government's response to the efforts required, on the one hand, to ensure that the care of the Special Youth Home of the State Department Board is safe for both the young people placed and the staff, and, on the other hand, to ensure that the young people placed are given the care and treatment to which they both need and are entitled. I am saddened by the background to the report and the debate, namely that care in Sis' special youth home is too often neither sufficiently safe nor of sufficient quality. The shortcomings and problems are numerous and serious. In addition, there are serious abuses, which were recently highlighted in SVT's and the Commission's programme on the shutdown of the youth centre Björkbacken in Gothenburg. Mr President, I would like to I am extremely frustrated that the problems and shortcomings which we are debating today and which we describe in the committee's report have long been well known, but nevertheless have persisted. Among other things, there is a high incidence of violence and threats, a lack of skills, care chains such as shortcomings, lack of follow-up and excessive use of coercive measures. These are shortcomings that the government has known for a very long time after reports from, among others, Statskontoret, the Inspection for Care and the Ombudsman for Justice, as well as alarms from unions and other organisations such as Save the Children, Unicef and Maskros children. The government has by no means done enough to remedy these shortcomings. So what really concerns me and obviously the whole committee, including the representatives of the two government parties, is either unwillingness or inability to deal seriously with the shortcomings and misstatements of the government. The government has certainly done some good things, such as the addition of resources to Sis and some legitimate government assignments. A good government commission gave the government to the National Board of Health and Welfare in 2019. It's about what Mats Wiking was into. The National Board of Health and Welfare, together with Sis and a number of regions, was then tasked with carrying out a pilot project on an integrated form of care to meet the needs of many young people, especially young girls, who are cared for within Sis also by interventions from psychiatry. But, Mr President, so much more is needed than just pilot projects. A proper action programme must now be developed and implemented. At the same time, major organisational and regulatory changes are also needed. Among other things, the Moderates have highlighted the need for a new law on compulsory care, which has now also been announced by the Riksdag. Speaking of announcements, the Riksdag has addressed such a message to the Government that a special unit within the Prison Service should assume responsibility for the young people cared for under LSU, the Act on Closed Youth Care. The government has announced that it will have to investigate the closed youth care system, and the investigation must, of course, include this important issue. We Moderates are convinced that the responsibility for young people convicted under LSU needs to be moved from Sis to the Prison Service for two main reasons. Firstly, Sis is not equipped to face the fact that those sentenced to closed youth care today are increasingly very serious criminals with a large amount of violent capital. The fact that there were 26 escapes last year from the end of Juvenile Services clearly shows how poor security today is unfortunately in Sis. In order to remedy the serious safety deficiencies, the responsibility for LSU needs to be transferred from Sis to the Prison Service. Secondly, the responsibility for caring for serious criminal youth needs to be moved from Sis to the Prison Service in order to give Sis better opportunities to improve the quality of the main activity, namely to provide young people with major psychosocial problems and healthcare challenges, according to LVU. Mr President, I would like to As has been shown by my speech, I am strongly critical of how the youth care system in Sis works today. At the same time, I would like to say that in Sis there are also activities that work well and that the agency has a lot of both competent and committed staff who are passionate about Sis living up to its vision of being a place for change. My main criticism in this debate is not against Sis, but against the government. It is ultimately the Government that is responsible for the activities carried out within Sis. It is the government that, through its governance and leadership, must take responsibility for remedying the shortcomings and problems that exist, as we agree in committee. It is the government that must give Sis better conditions to shoulder its very difficult and complex mission as well as change the mission if you see that it does not work. But the government has failed in its responsibilities. That is why we have today's debate, and that is why this committee initiative is being taken. Once the Riksdag has made its decision, the Government is obliged to return with a response to how to improve safety and healthcare in Sis. But above all, the government owes a reply to the young people who are cared for within Sis. It is ultimately the government's responsibility that these young people are safe and receive the care and treatment to which they are entitled. Now the government has to face up to its responsibilities.
i-555a2b134126692e-816	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg talks about the issue of responsibility. I admit that it is of course the government that is responsible for the issues. It is always a government that is responsible for making improvements and taking responsibility for important issues. I myself, who have worked for a long time on these issues, can see that for a fairly long period of time there has been a lack of responsibility in this area. This was true even during the time of the bourgeois government. Youth care has also changed over time. Today, young people are being placed in the institution more and more later, which makes it difficult to manage. Whatever government we had today, we would have faced the same problem. We need to raise the skills and the security rating. As the honourable Member says, the government has made some efforts, and more is under way, such as the safety rating and creating security and peace of mind for young people and staff. The Director-General also talks about a training programme that seeks to raise skills. However, we are not there yet, and there are many stones to turn over. I believe that the Director-General will do a good job. The reason we support this is because we see the problems as they actually are. We need to join forces to move forward on this issue. We need to support the government in its work and show that we are a united committee that has competence and wants to move forward on the issues. What I would like to ask the honourable Member, Johan Hultberg, is about the transfer of LSU young people to another type of institution, namely the Prison Service. We think there are shortcomings in Sis-hemmen in terms of staff skills. But what competence is there in the Prison Service that is missing at Sis-hemmen?
i-CzV6CMmKywswztdwgGyQwx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Wiking, for the speech and the question to me. Let me begin by commending the Social Democrats and the environmental partners in the committee for daring to give their own government proper criticism, because that is exactly what we are doing in the report. We in the committee are frustrated and dissatisfied that the government has not been able to address the problems that we, Statskontoret, IVO and a wide range of civil society organisations have pointed out. It is therefore a good thing that we can tell the government unitedly that this is not good enough. A proper action programme must now be put in place, and we must have it on Parliament's table by 1 August. I would like to thank Mats Wiking and the Social Democrats for their support. The second question was why we Moderates think it is important to transfer responsibility for convicted young people from Sis to the Prison Service. It is primarily for safety reasons. We see that Sis is not at all equipped to deal with these young people. Young people, Mr President, are a truth of modification. We know that the vast majority are over 18 years old. Last year, we saw 26 escapes. It is a huge figure when we know at the same time that in closed juvenile care, only 70 places are involved. The major part of Sis is to provide care according to LVU. We think it is important to make this move as the Prison Service can safety. Well, obviously Sis can't. We also want to give Sis better opportunities to develop its activities and to remedy the shortcomings that a united social committee now points to. This therefore depends both on the safety and the quality of the activities of young people. Then, of course, it is important to exchange experiences from Sis to the Prison Service in order to learn from what Sis may have done well when it comes to giving input to those who are convicted.
i-555a2b134126692e-825	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Hultberg for his reply. I feel this way about the Prison Service taking over juvenile care: It's still children we're talking about, although they're very far gone in their criminality, their addiction or whatever they're doing. They really need care and treatment. My experience is that the Prison Service is doing the best they can with care and treatment, but that Sis is, after all, a straw sharper when it comes to youth treatment. I'm a little worried that the Moderates and some other parties are driving young people into criminal thinking. There is a lot of experience and research that shows that it does not produce the desired results. You think that you can punish young people to become better citizens, but what is needed is care and treatment. I would like to hear a little bit what Mr Hultberg says about this. What kind of care and treatment is it that Sis does not provide today but that the Prison Service will provide?
i-555a2b134126692e-828	Mr President, I would like to The move is, of course, first and foremost about overcoming the totally unacceptable safety deficiencies that we are seeing today. If you have 26 escapes in a year with only 70 places, it is quite obvious that you are unable to maintain sufficient safety. Correctional services can do this. Well, obviously Sis can't. What is now taking place within the State Department Board is that an enormous amount of work is being started to catch up. The Director General talked about the fact that they were at least ten years behind the Prison Service in the security work. We are now going to recruit intelligence workers, diversify and move young people so that they do not mix those who are convicted of having committed crimes with those who are treated under duress but are not convicted, you remove free weights and so on. I am rather concerned that there is now an extreme focus on increasing security, because it is addressed in the media every two weeks and it is so obvious what major shortcomings one has, but loses focus on overcoming all the other shortcomings that we highlight: that one does not have sufficient skills in the staff, that one does not follow up the business well enough and so on. Then it is important to say that what we are proposing on the part of the Moderates, Liberals, Christian Democrats and Centers – this is an initiative that is also supported by SD – is that it should be a special unit within the Prison Service. We also think it is important to separate these young people from the other clients of the Prison Service. But, Mats Wiking, of the 67 who served in closed youth care in the autumn of 2020, 45 were over 18 years old. It is important to include it in the description. So it is not some children we are talking about, but unfortunately it is often gang-criminal young men who have come very far in their criminal path and that Sis is not equipped to meet.
i-555a2b134126692e-833	Mr President, I would like to There are probably few who have escaped recent media reports of a number of abuses in our youth homes, not least the Björkbacken youth centre, and few who are left untouched. That is one of the reasons why we are standing here today as a united committee. I also dare to say that there are many of us here who genuinely want to improve the situation. The issue is therefore highly topical. We need to bring about concrete and important structural changes with better procedures, supervision and governance, but above all legislative changes in this area if necessary. The reports that reach us show such grave problems that they cannot be ignored, and we should not ignore them. It is high time that there was a workshop. This time we cannot content ourselves with talking about the problems and sending papers, but now we need to bring about a change that makes a difference for our children and young people. Mr President, I would like to Six years ago we read about the girl from Jönköping who has been locked up in different treatment centres without receiving the care she needed. For three years she was moved around between different homes 13 times. This means that the girl moved on average every three months. Given that she was taken care of in the care of the state and under its responsibility, this is an enormous failure and a tragedy without equals. As a result, Sis notified itself. But now, six years later, we are in the same place with the same description of the problem: our young people who are being cared for in government care do not get the help they need and in any sense do not suffer. Yes, it's a complex situation. Many young people feel bad and have not had a dance on roses. But that's not an excuse, but it places high demands on our accommodations. It requires staff who are trained and who have the knowledge to meet young people with different needs. It places high demands on young people to receive the care and support that is relevant and requested and, above all, to be met by people with good morals and an ethical approach. It simply requires good competence at all levels. To illustrate this, SVT News reported in December 2017 that 75 per cent of those working at Sis-hem lacked post-secondary education. Treatment assistants are the largest professional group. They are responsible for daily contact in a broad perspective. It is everything from laundry and cleaning to monitoring but also, if necessary, managing search and lockdown, i.e. separation. Despite the alarm about shortcomings in treatment and competence, the requirement for post-secondary education was removed in 2016. The extension was then made until 2018, and in some sense this still hangs on. On the other hand, I cannot see that reduced requirements would help. Instead, I am in favour of strengthening the requirements. It will be attractive, and we will have more staff with good competence, so that we can avoid events that have been reported from Björkbacken. Competence and knowledge can meet young people in an adequate and professional way instead of strength and power structure. These are people we're dealing with. In the Netherlands, for example, academic training is required for these jobs. On 1 February this year a thesis was presented by Peter Andersson, a new doctorate in social work. He had interviewed 59 treatment assistants about how they view their work, young people, violence and emotions. One conclusion Andersson draws is that there is a workplace culture at Sis-hem where strength is rewarded before weakness. If you show fear, you risk your colleagues not wanting to work with you. We also need to change this culture. Another report, published last summer by the Guard Service, has identified several cases of sexual abuse. Staff offers girls cigarettes and drugs for sex. Girls testify to a culture of silence – staff who have seen and heard dare not tell. Girls have also been interviewed in the media. In fact, I would like to use my entire speech to quote them in order to really emphasise the importance of these issues. Mr President, I would like to In this context, a couple of homes differ, including Björkbacken, which is now closed. On 16 March 2020, an IVO notification was received from an operational developer at Sis. It describes how staff take on young people when viewing and closing. Among other things, a former employee in a notification from 4 March 2019 describes that the business is permeated by an unhealthy girl's vision. As I said, Björkbacken is now closed. However, we cannot have state institutions where girls and young people get hurt and where violence and sexual abuse occur. Every abuse and every case of sexual harassment taking place at Sis homes is one too many. In the reports and letters I have read, the picture is quite telling. Statskontoret's government analysis of Sis shows, among other things, that those placed do not receive equivalent care, that there are large differences between the different departments and between the care offered to boys and girls, that employees at Sis-hem treat young people badly, that they find it difficult to offer adapted care and that target groups are mixed in a way that impairs the conditions for individuals to develop in a positive direction. In any case, it is good that the government is starting to act and that the National Board of Institutional Affairs is also on track. However, I can't help but be a little critical that the government, for example, didn't take advantage of the investigation that was on the table already in 2015, where, among other things, care is lifted. This announcement is therefore about the need to strengthen skills, which I have been talking about in general. However, we also point out that care for the placed child must be strengthened and made clear. We cannot forcibly place children and young people without then providing them with the necessary support. We need a substantial boost when it comes to meeting the young people's different needs for care. A clearer interaction between regions to ensure good health care would be a step in the right direction. Finally, I would like to point out that in this context, as in all other contexts, we have youth homes that make good efforts, with a skilled and committed staff. These are not my criticisms. It's more of a proof. But in the cases I have just described, it is clear. We simply tear apart souls that are already broken down. We really need to get to grips with that. I agree with the committee's announcement.
i-555a2b134126692e-847	Mr President, I would like to We have been monitoring developments in Sis, the National Board of Institutional Affairs, special youth homes for a long time, due to reports of violence and threats to young people, between young people placed and staff, and shortcomings in the treatment of young people placed within Sis' operations. The picture we have received over the years cannot be accepted, and it is clear that substantial changes must be made. It is not just a matter of isolated events here and there, but it has happened time and again. Now it is not just that we need to make changes and reinforcements in individual places. Now we really need to take a strong grip on everything from improving the skills of staff to strengthening lock-out and post-care. There are many shortcomings, and the shortcomings are serious. Mr President, I would like to When a society takes over responsibility for a child, as Sis does, responsibility weighs heavily. This responsibility must be borne 100% by the state. The State must be able to shoulder this responsibility. Unfortunately, over the years we have seen the opposite. Time and again, the state has failed to shoulder this heavy responsibility. Because I cannot interpret the maladministration that has been reported to us in any other way than as a major failure on the part of the state. Despite years of alarm reports, we have still not succeeded. Although we have been standing in this House on several occasions debating the situation at Sis-hemmen, we have still not got the results that we actually want to see. What is causing the debate today – or perhaps what this time caused the cup to run over – is the mission review report on maladministration at Björkbacken's youth home in Gothenburg, where young girls were in the state's forced care. At Björkbacken they must have been threatened and subjected to violence and sexual abuse by the staff. Management has been alerted about the situation for several years, yet the abuse has continued. What I ask myself is: How is this possible? How can this happen in Sweden at all today? Why has it not acted and reacted in the past? Children's stories, cries for help and complaints must be taken very seriously. These are children who have been abused in the name of the state, and we can never accept that. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the complaint mechanisms that exist must be developed and made well known to both children and staff. In addition, they must lead to actual changes in the best interests of the child. Activities such as Sis must be imbued with a child law perspective, which is why malpractice must never occur. As previous speakers have emphasised, the shortcomings are many and very serious. This is an issue that we have raised here for debate on several occasions. I am therefore grateful, Mr President, that the committee is now working together on this issue and instructs the government to come back by 1 August of this year with a letter assessing the efforts needed to ensure that the care provided by Sis is safe for both the young and the staff placed and what is needed to ensure that the young person is placed in the care and treatment required. This should not just be a report describing the problem. We have already established that. The letter to be submitted by the Government shall also indicate the manner in which the measures are to be implemented. Now we have to start seeing real results. We need to see a change. It's not good enough as it is today. We must be able to do more for our children and young people. I therefore call for the committee's joint proposal to be approved.
i-555a2b134126692e-856	Mr President, I would like to It is with the deepest respect and gratitude that I begin these speeches today, to all young people who have taken the courage to talk about their lives and how they have been treated in the care of society. It is thanks to the strength of these young people that we have become aware of the abuses that are taking place. They are the ones who have ensured that it must not continue in silence. However, it has taken an extremely long time. Year after year, placed children have tried to make the outside world react to what they are exposed to and how they are treated, but nothing really changed. But now perhaps the voices have become too many and too strong. Now it may no longer be possible to explain away, to blame them. Now perhaps the outside world is actually beginning to understand that this is totally unacceptable. Because as a wise person working on this said: It feels like something actually happened. It is about the fact that, thanks to the increased voices of all young people, we are now facing a momentum and that something really is changing. The actions of the Committee on Social Affairs here today are proof of this to me. In fact, it is a great thing that a fully united committee today is putting forward a direction that shows that we have decided that no youth should be abused in the name of society, and that Sis-hem should not be a place of storage but a place of care and treatment. Mr President, I would like to These are very heavy stories that young people have told, which make it difficult to feel that we have a juvenile care system that we can be proud of. Stundom is the story so crude that it is almost impossible to take in. It just hurts too much. It is terrible testimony to isolations and closures that have been used systematically. We have received stories of violations, harassment and abuse. It is crude and brutal testimony that is painted about young people who are locked up without the possibility of either getting out of there or alarming and who have repeatedly been subjected to completely inhumane treatment. It is young people who are even subjected to serious crimes and abuse, all in the name of society. Although it is now that the voices of malpractice have become stronger and stronger, I must say that it pisses me off that this is not really new. It's been going on forever. The media, children's rights organisations, employees and social services have on several occasions sounded the alarm. Sis, IVO and politics have known about it. Yet not enough has been done to remedy the shortcomings. The worst part is that these are abuses that are happening here and now because no one really stopped. Perhaps it is so simple, Mr President, that the lack of reactions actually reflects the view of young people placed on Sis. It is an increasingly harsh human view where the person placed in a home is a dangerous person who should be treated with a harsh hand and punished for his actions, rather than counseling you to remedy their cause. This is true even though they are still children in the sense of the law. Basically, this attitude is a completely deadly and divisive surrender to society's ability to actually contribute to influencing and changing people's — even children's — life situation. I had to tell me about a bunch of young guys who shared their experiences with their placements. It is bad that in the public sphere is often painted as aggressive and dangerous. It showed how awfully bad the guys were. They testified that the time at Sis completely broke them down and that they felt so bad that they sat alone in their rooms and cried and were tormented by tremendous anxiety. But outside their closed doors they could not show anyone how bad things really were. They had to hold up a hard front so they wouldn't show themselves vulnerable, so no one would know how incredibly bad they were. They knew that their only way to survive was to get out of Sis, and it would not be possible if someone in the staff had understood how bad things really were. Then they'd still be locked up. That can't possibly be how our concern for young people is supposed to work. It cannot be that someone seriously believes that this is going to make for positive change. In all the stories we hear and which we highlight here today, there is not a single opportunity for young people to say that these harsh methods helped them. No one says that isolation was what made them feel good – that the hours in a naked cell dampened their anxiety or strengthened their self-esteem. No one claims that the girl began to look brighter on her future only after seven adult men violently pushed her down to the floor with a knee on her back. No one says that it was when they were called insulting words that young people's holes in their hearts healed. Nowhere do we have evidence that this will give the young people better opportunities. None of us sitting here today would accept that our own children were treated in this way. Mr President, I would like to What is so incredibly important when listening to young people who have experienced abuse themselves is to understand that many have also experienced the opposite within the same authority. One girl tells us that when she was first forcibly placed, no one seemed to want to understand that her self - injury and anxiety had been caused by years of abuse in her family. She says that her outward behavior was answered with her being abandoned and isolated so many times that she lost count. Finally, she felt so bad that she even tried to kill herself, only barely 14 years old. The girl becomes after an escape placed in a new institution. She says that she had expected to be received with a search, but instead she is met by staff who take her to a room set up for her. On one occasion, she gets so much anxiety that she becomes violent in her new room. But the staff do not close down, they call in to her and ask if she will harm herself. When the answer is no, the staff wait outside until the worst is settled. There will be no isolation, but instead the staff will go in to the girl, hug her and sit there with her for hours. They sit there and show in their profession the girl that they take her pain seriously and that they are there to help. It's the incident that this girl thinks helped her. This is how care works when it is at its very best. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Committee on Social Affairs is acting as we are doing here today shows that we are actually facing a momentum when it comes to Sis. In what we are asking for, there is a belief that we as a society can provide the conditions for people to get help with the right care and interventions. There is a clear approach here that we no longer want to see methods that do not have an effect – methods that can be likened to torture. In the task we are now giving to the government, the entire Social Affairs Committee is clear that we believe that with the right staff, good treatment methods and treatment, adequate knowledge and good aftercare, our young people can get the help they need. Society can lay the foundation for vital change. We are a fully united committee, from left to right, which jointly sends out the strongest signal that the aim should be for the use of coercive measures to cease altogether. It is a great victory for us in the Left Party. I began my speech in the debate by thanking all the young people who have had the courage to speak. I would like to conclude by thanking the members of the Committee on Social Affairs for the fact that we have now chosen to act. We are behind the announcement.
i-555a2b134126692e-876	Mr President, I would like to Children must be recognised, respected and protected as holders of rights with an individual personality, personal needs and interests and the right to privacy. This definition is taken from the general comments of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. It also shows that no violence against children is justified and that all violence against children can be prevented. Anyone on the other hand? As a matter of fact, yes. Sweden is one of the few countries that actually allow violence against children. This is the special power of separation available to the National Board of Institutional Affairs. People in state youth homes are allowed to intervene physically, hold on and hold down. As a consequence, bruises, difficulty breathing, broken teeth and dislocated knees occur. Separation is violence with legal support if the props are fulfilled. However, legal as it is, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is a bad thing and no violence against children is justified. This week I was talking to a young woman. We can call her Maria. Throughout her childhood, she was subjected to domestic violence. She was taken care of and later placed in one of Sis youth homes. Maria told of the nightmares that followed her and of the violence she suffered as a child when she pleaded for help. Maria describes how she needed love and a supportive person with much patience. Instead, she was locked up, separated, and isolated for long periods of time. Maria puts words on how the physical and mental torture she was subjected to is still chasing her today. Today, for the first time, Maria has been helped to deal with the abuse that took place both at home and at the home of the state. Together we have a huge responsibility for all the powerless children who carry similar experiences as Maria. We have a responsibility for all the children who are currently placed in Sis youth home and do not receive the help they are entitled to and need. Following the mission review's latest report on violence and violations at the youth centre Björkbacken, a number of children's rights organisations urged the government to stop the violence. After a long silence, a brief statement was finally made by the minister responsible. There she legitimises violence against children and shows a deep incomprehensibleness to the problem. Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren believes that it is naive to believe that the children placed within Sis could be cared for without separation. I wonder whether it is the UN Committee on Children's Rights, which has called on Sweden to ban all children's isolation without delay, which is naive. Or is it the UN Committee on Torture, which states that isolation constitutes inhumane treatment, which is naive? Is it all scientists, social workers, psychologists, former Sis employees and children's rights experts that the Minister claims to be naive? In 2018, the then Social Democratic Government formulated the ambition to remove separations in the long term as the authority of Sis. Is it even Hallengren's own government that has been naive? Let us be clear. The number of physical interventions on Sis has increased rapidly over the last three years. This means that violence against children has increased, and it is not the older gang-criminal boys who are exposed, but twelve-year-old girls with autism spectrum. They have the right to action under the LSS, but they are cared for in locked institutions and subjected to violence. This is how the separation powers have come to be used, despite the fact that audits of Sis' activities show that it is rather the staff's response and the culture that prevails in the institution that is the problem. I say it again: any violence against children can be prevented. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is now a law in Sweden. This means that all children have the right to be protected against violence and violations, including children who are in great need and who are in state forced care. That's where it's most needed. This means that the legal system must ensure that children have their rights respected, even when they are detained. We bear a responsibility for children at Sis to be treated humanely and with respect for man's inherent dignity and in a way that takes into account the needs of the child. Moreover, the health and basic safety of a deprived child must never be jeopardised. It is important that everyone who comes into contact with children has the skills needed to meet the individual needs of children. It requires an understanding of what it is like to be children in different life situations and how these can affect children's development. It is also important that there is knowledge of the responsibilities of other actors in relation to children and that interaction between these actors can be strengthened for the benefit of the child. Ultimately, it is about leadership and signals. Is there a government here that strongly rejects violence against children in Sis? Is there in the Authority Sis a management that is powerfully acting to reduce the separation rates and that does not mix the cards away by talking about higher fences and more monitoring for young guys who have committed serious crimes when the issue concerns separations and violations against twelve-year-old girls with autism? Can we at least stick to the point? We Liberals support the committee's proposal for a committee initiative that the government should return to Parliament with a letter concerning the care of children and young people in Sis. It is amazing that we can all agree on the importance of this. However, the Liberals have a special opinion and we reserve the right to come back to this issue. We are extremely concerned about what has emerged from the reporting in recent years, with a particular focus on the very youngest children placed in state youth homes. Now I very much hope that together we will ensure that the acquis is amended and that children are protected from violence.
i-555a2b134126692e-887	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs to be approved. Mr President, I would like to Society should see every location on Sis as a failure. Investments are really an example of late and expensive efforts for children. They are often seen from the child's perspective as another betrayal in a long line of betrayal from the adult world. We need to find ways where we work with past and preventive measures in children's lives. It is possible to prevent more, and it is possible to prevent better than we do today in society. I touched upon the staff in a previous speech in this House. Sometimes we want to find simple ways to point to problems and shortcomings. If we look at the whole of social care, especially that of children, from school health care to curators, teachers, social services and child and youth psychiatry, we can see that much of these activities are characterised by high staff turnover. If it is something you have learned as a parent, and something we know about children, it is that continuity and security in relationships are key words to achieve, above all, trust if it should fail in any way. The number of investments in late and expensive operations will be marked by a high turnover of staff then. The testimony is innumerable. When you talk to social workers, preschool teachers and BVC nurses who have flagged because a child, a family or a mother needs support, you know they don't get a hearing. Somewhere they can stand it. Preschool thinks that in a year's time the child will start school, and that's not preschool's problem anymore. The low school teacher thinks there's only got to be a little order in the class, and in a year's time, the kid starts in middle school, and then someone else takes over. Finally, it is thought that when the State Department Board or the Prison Service takes over, you will not have to take responsibility. It is important that we start talking about these issues from the perspective of looking at children as something we should invest in. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the preventive measures in relation to the staff situation and the continuity of staff, which we need to highlight more on the part of the committee, there is now a unanimous committee behind a report that points to the needs of the State Institution Board. Staff need more knowledge to do a better and more professional job, and it will meet our children and young people with respect and in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this context, I would particularly like to point out something that all staff involved in children should learn and have knowledge of, namely low-impact treatment. So we should not face everything with a higher tone, more violence or more muscle power. Perhaps the problem with the board of institutions is not that children run away, but that we lock up and separate children to a greater extent. That is where we need to put more effort into reducing the number. Mr President, I would like to In the beginning of January, we were able to take part of, as many have testified before me, Mission review elements from Björkbacken. It was testimony that was totally unacceptable at all levels. It is therefore a good thing that the report puts pressure on the perspective of children's rights and that the State Departmental Board should receive support. Children cared for by the State must be treated and cared for on the basis of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I would also like to emphasise the importance of the school. It has been highlighted here. A lot of these institutions are good at school, but the school is also the most important vaccine against lifelong exclusion. It's about finding school forms that work. Many of those who end up in institutional care have years of school failure behind them. This requires extra responsibility for the educational situation in all institutions, whether they are run by the National Board of Institutional Affairs or by the Prison Service. Having said that, I am in favour of the proposal.
i-555a2b134126692e-897	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate a motion report on maritime issues with a lot of good proposals on how Swedish shipping can become better and more competitive. Maritime transport is important for Swedish industry. A significant part of our imports and exports are transported by sea. Maritime transport is also important if we are to achieve our climate change goals. Freighters have the ability to carry large quantities of goods as well as really large objects in a way that is difficult to do on the road. This applies, for example, to cranes and machines and, to take a rather spectacular fall, to the new bridge to Slussen that came by boat from China. The crowd on our waters is considerably smaller than on roads and tracks. Maritime transport is important and is likely to become increasingly important in our increasingly globalised world. Sweden has more than 50 ports and a lot of inland waterways, a fairly untapped resource that provides good opportunities to relieve the road network and reduce fossil emissions. The advantage of shipping, as with aviation, is that it only needs investments in its destinations. In between, no investment is required because the infrastructure – in the case of shipping seas and lakes – is already in place. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe in research and innovation. The development of engines powered by fossil-free fuel is currently taking place very quickly. New ships are planned that will be powered by wind power. The Swedish ports must therefore be equipped for a new, modern, green, sustainable and accessible shipping. One example of the under-utilisation of shipping is barge traffic. This means that inland waterway transport can be used to replace large parts of the transport currently carried out by lorries. It is important that we can increase competitiveness here. There are many good proposals from the national coordinator Pia Berglund, but now the government must move from words to action and create rules and conditions for barge traffic in Sweden. It is therefore important that Sweden does not create special rules that make it difficult for shipping companies to operate on our waterways, unlike those in the rest of Europe. In autumn 2016, the Swedish Parliament decided on a Swedish tonnage taxation system. The aim was to increase the competitiveness of the Swedish merchant fleet and increase the proportion of Swedish registered vessels. The new rules entered into force on 20 October 2016 and were applied for the first time for tax years starting after 31 December 2016. We would like to see more Swedish-flagged ships. The tonnage tax is a decisive factor in making it possible. It is therefore important that we review this tax and see if it had the effects we wanted to have enough or whether we need to make a review and changes to the system in order to have more Swedish flagged ships. If we want to improve shipping conditions in Sweden, in addition to good economic conditions, we need a long-term perspective and predictability. Maritime aid affects the economic conditions for Swedish shipping. Over the last ten years it has been an average of 1.7 billion per year. According to the Swedish Transport Analysis Agency, this support for shipping companies is a prerequisite for the ships currently in the Swedish Register of Ships. An aggravating circumstance is that it is difficult for shipping companies to obtain an advance ruling and a long-term perspective. Therefore, we Moderates believe that it is important for the government to investigate a model for providing advance rulings so that the shipping industry has more predictable conditions. In order to improve opportunities for shipping, we should also review administration and bureaucracy. It is important that we start from the shipping companies and their preconditions, not from the state and municipal bureaucracy. Therefore, from a moderate point of view, we would like to see a solution found in the form of a one-stop shop for government contacts with a way into the Swedish Government. This would facilitate and reduce administrative procedures. In addition, in the transport sector as a whole, but perhaps most of all in maritime transport, it is necessary to look at digital solutions, both for shipping itself and for administration, in order to facilitate and streamline and also reduce costs. Mr President, I would like to The goods and persons transported by ship rarely have the port as their final destination. Accessibility to and from Swedish ports is important for Swedish shipping. Then it is important to see the transport system as a whole, but there it is currently lacking. The state and municipalities are responsible for different parts, and cooperation needs to be improved. A clear example of when things go really wrong is Stockholm Norvik Hamn in Nynäshamn. It's a very nice new port, where you've made a lot of investments. The port is ready and receiving ships, but the infrastructure to and from the port is flawed. In the current national plan, the government deleted Cross-connection Södertörn, which was a key for efficient transport from the port and further out into Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Swedish shipping plays an important role in achieving more sustainable transport. In order for shipping to be able to switch, the state must contribute to building a functioning infrastructure for fossil-free fuel in connection with the Swedish ports. It can be about biofuels, LNG and methanol, but also about expanded electricity infrastructure. The state should not point out a specific fuel but instead create incentives for a growing market of fossil-free fuels in connection with the Swedish ports. This requires a long-term plan in which companies and states work together. It should be easy and profitable to do the right thing for companies and shipping companies in the transition from fossil to fossil-free. Today, the Swedish Maritime Administration can provide environmental discounts. However, this system needs to be developed and the fairway charges reviewed to ensure long-term and predictable benefits for fossil-free powered vessels. The Government should instruct the Swedish Maritime Administration to develop such a model. A majority here in Parliament wants to see a review of the Swedish Maritime Administration's funding and organisational form. As a business, the Swedish Maritime Administration must increase its revenues in order to balance its budget. The only way the Swedish Maritime Administration has to increase its revenues is to increase its fairway and pilotage fees, and this leads to a loss of competitiveness in Swedish shipping. How does the government want to resolve this, and when does it intend to address the issue? There is an announcement from the Riksdag, but so far we have not seen that anything has been done. Mr President, I would like to Talking Swedish shipping without mentioning icebreakers is difficult in the situation we are in now. We have age-old icebreakers who need to be replaced. It's patched and fixed. There are not even spare parts for them today, which, if it wants to hurt, means that ice mining does not work in northern Sweden in winter because it takes so long to produce new spare parts. A design project is currently under way with Finland. It ends in the summer, and Finland intends to order new icebreakers. There is therefore every reason to take this opportunity to join Finland. We need new icebreakers if we are not to have to close the ports in northern Sweden, at worst 130 days a year. Mr President, I would like to A minor issue related to shipping is the watercraft. Now we're approaching the summer season – in the days we've noticed that it's getting really hot, although it may still be a little too early to start running jet skis. At present, there is no effective regulatory framework for personal watercraft. Many testify to the fact that they are a problem for humans and wildlife. There are also many examples of drivers failing in judgment and directly endangering people. The water forwarders need a working regulatory framework with requirements for driving licences and clear rules for where and in what way to drive. There is a complete investigation, but the government has now unfortunately signalled that no regulatory framework will be put forward. So we have another summer season ahead of us as there will be no clear rules. The risk is that this can end with more people losing their lives or being seriously injured by watercraft. It is unfortunate that no proposal has been made before the beginning of the summer season. That concludes, Mr President, by calling for the approval of reservation number 9, but we naturally support all our reservations.
i-555a2b134126692e-922	Mr President, I would like to We support all our reservations, but in order to save time at the vote, we only ask for the approval of reservation number 7. Mr President, I would like to Was it better before? Until the middle of the 20th century, coastal shipping was of great importance, but today it hardly exists. There was a great belief in the future, and canals were dug for shipping. Göta Canal from the Baltic Sea to Kattegat is Sweden's largest building project of all time. Today, the channel is threatened with closure if it is not upgraded. There were yards in a row that repaired ships, and the ports were full of life. Today there are hardly any laps left. Mr President, I would like to There is much today to compare with what it used to be like. Is it worse or better? You can say that again. However, I can see that things can be better than they are today. Consider an example. About two years ago, I joined the Minister for Infrastructure Eneroth in celebrating the 100th Swedish flagged ship. The joy was great, and now it was time to work to strengthen Swedish shipping. Now, two years later, I am standing here in Parliament's pulpit and can see that nothing has improved. We still have 100 ships under the Swedish flag. The government has said that there should be a transfer from land to rail and shipping. A good strategy has been set up and an eco-bonus has been introduced, but this has given a small, if any, shift to rail or shipping. The Government has also received two announcements from the Riksdag – one about investigating the Swedish Maritime Administration's form of operation and funding and one about investigating environmentally differentiated fees. It was over a year since these announcements were made, and what has happened to them? I'm waiting for answers. Mr President, I would like to As early as 2014, Sweden was given the opportunity to operate inland navigation – a fantastic opportunity to transport goods on protected waters, for example between Gothenburg and Lake Vänern and on Lake Mälaren. No new traffic has been created thanks to those rules. In 2018, a national coordinator for domestic and short sea shipping was appointed, a six-year limited-term assignment. Now in 2021 I wonder: Where is the traffic? Where are the barges that could have been in the protected waters? VTI has analysed freight transport, and the analysis is that the shift of freight transport from road to rail and maritime transport has so far been marginal. The share of freight transport by mode is also expected to remain relatively constant by 2040. In other words, no special transfers have taken place. The analysis by VTI shows that the government's work on moving goods from road to rail and shipping is not working. Is this about slowness from the government? Or is it an unwillingness to make the changes needed to move goods? For example, a national coordinator cannot be appointed without giving him the tools to make changes. Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going to give the government tips on how to really get shipping going. For example, to get more Swedish flagged ships, you can change the stamp tax and convert it into a stamp fee. In this way, the thresholds are lowered in order to have a Swedish flag for a ship. That would not be a major cost to the state. We can also go into the tonnage tax. It has now been so long that we should be able to evaluate it and review the possibility of allowing more vessels to benefit from the tonnage tax system. We could reintroduce the net model. The principle of the net model is that shipping companies with Swedish-registered ships receive 100 per cent of the tax and social security expenses. When the tonnage tax system was introduced, the government indicated that the scheme would be financed by the State giving back 99% of tax and wage expenditure. So it is only a small percentage to restore the net model. Furthermore, the Government should follow the announcements received from the Riksdag to review the Swedish Maritime Administration's form of operation and financing, as well as environmental fairway fees. As it is today, Mr President, maritime transport is burdened with charges, which tend to increase in order for the Swedish Maritime Administration to manage its economy – an economy which is also on a very sloping level. The Swedish Maritime Administration has little opportunity to influence its income except through increased fees for shipping. With regard to the future, there are concerns that ships choose to sail to Sweden to a lesser extent instead to stop in Germany or Denmark and carry the goods on to Sweden by rail or by lorry. If the government wants to, we can bring about a change and increase shipping significantly. By means of changes, we can get coastal shipping and inland navigation going. The ports have spare capacity and welcome more shipping traffic. Why doesn't more cargo go on ships? Let me take an example, Mr President. In Stockholm's new port Norvik there have been experiments with ship traffic between Norvik and Mälarhamnar. I did not think I heard correctly, Mr President, because with fees it costs 100 000 to take a ship this small distance. It is clear, Mr President, that it is then difficult to make ends meet. Coastal shipping, which was used a lot in the past, has great potential when it comes to transporting domestic goods in our elongated country. Coastal shipping is burdened with fairway charges, which are charged when ships enter a port. A new fairway fee is thus charged in each Swedish port, a ship enters. This means that it is unprofitable to enter a port and pick up goods, unless it is very much. This results in ships choosing not to enter a port if it is not enough cargo. You can compare with having a bus line where the bus pays for every stop where it stops and picks up people. You can imagine that many people would have been pissed if the bus went by because there are only three people waiting. Madam President, I would like Pilots are a great cost to ships. However, the pilot is very important and needed. Technical tools can reduce the use of physical pilots and help through digital control to a greater extent. The need for pilots is greatest when the weather is at its hardest. It is also then that it is most dangerous for the pilot to board the ships, which makes it even more important to have distance pilots, like what is happening today in an air traffic controller's tower. Of course, pilots shall be on board ships if necessary to navigate the ship safely in port. However, we should not forget that ships are becoming more and more technologically advanced and that pilotage needs are decreasing. Several shipping companies also show that it is becoming more difficult to get a pilot at the right time and that ships can lie on the ship and wait for a pilot on duty. This does not benefit traffic. Lots is also a shortage profession, and large retirements are to be expected in the future. This makes it all the more important to enable remote piloting to ensure that ships can safely enter port. We can't talk about shipping without picking up icebreakers. Icebreakers are a prerequisite for shipping to work in winter. As I have pointed out earlier in this speech, the Swedish Maritime Administration's economy is an economy in free fall. The Swedish Maritime Administration is not able to finance new icebreakers, but the state is obliged to provide funds. Without icebreakers, there are few ships that can operate in northern Sweden, and the industry finds it difficult to transport its goods in the winter. Should the Swedish Maritime Administration charge the cost through fairway fees to finance icebreakers, there is a great risk that the ships cannot afford to enter Sweden. Ports are an important factor in maritime transport. There is spare capacity, but in order to further make shipping attractive, the infrastructure to and from ports should be reviewed and optimised. Then I am thinking both of the road infrastructure and of the railway infrastructure. It shall be easy to transport goods to and from shipping and to tranship the goods from ports for further transport into the country. I would like to conclude my speech by calling on the government to continue with important measures to help ships and shipping companies during this terrible coronatide, when cruise ships in particular have been hit hard and support such as short-term lay-offs and maritime aid is extremely important. The cruise companies have been hit very hard and need all the help they can get.
i-555a2b134126692e-947	Madam President, I would like Maritime transport is an industry with a very long tradition and has been and is very important and important for Sweden's imports and exports. Shipping helps each year to be a link for people and goods to and from Sweden. The maritime report, which we are now debating, is important, and on this basis it is of the utmost importance to us in the Center Party. We believe that the government should develop a green Swedish coastal transport strategy that highlights both the Swedish maritime strategy and the national freight action plan. One good example we would like to highlight here is Norway, which recently adopted a green coastal strategy aimed at reducing CO2 emissions, creating green jobs and stimulating green technology development. This strategy includes operators in the shipping industry, municipalities and national authorities as well as transport buyers. This strategy has also been accompanied by a budget from which green investment funds can be sought. The Center Party believes that it is worth pursuing the approach that Norway has taken in this plan, i.e. to bring together relevant actors and take a holistic approach to the green development of shipping. We also believe that the potential for enhanced competitiveness and more efficient and better-analysed environmental management in shipping, including intermodal transport solutions that stimulate cross-transport modes of freight flow and transfer of goods to shipping, should be reviewed. Shipping is important for the whole country. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Maritime Administration collects fairway fees and pilotage fees. The Centre Party notes, however, that the Authority has unfortunately had difficulties in distinguishing the fees from the environment in a satisfactory manner. Today, for example, ships with electric power, and thus zero CO2 emissions, are subject to increased charges. The Center Party believes that the Swedish Maritime Administration therefore needs to take a holistic approach to this issue. We want to see a broad review, and advocate a developed bonus – the malus model. The Center Party also considers that the Swedish Maritime Administration is lacking in its analysis of the impact of increased fairway charges on the possibility of transferring goods from truck and rail to shipping. This criticism is unanimous from Transportstyrelsen, Trafikverket, Trafikanalys and others. Against this background, we believe that the Government should commission the Swedish Maritime Administration to better analyse the effects of its existing fees and charges and develop environmental differentiation with regard to its effects on the transfer of goods to shipping. This is particularly important in the context of the pandemic and because we continue to want good shipping throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The icebreaker fleet is getting old and should be modernised. Icebreakers are important to ensure access to ports and thus reliable transport for business. Sweden should shortly consider more clearly how the existing icebreaker fleet will be phased out and when and under which conditions a new icebreaker fleet will be procured. We want the government to move forward on this issue as a matter of urgency, but we want this to be done in a broader perspective, which recognises all the needs of the base industry in close dialogue with transport buyers, authorities and others. An additional aspect that can be included is the need for international cooperation to optimise procurement and operation. This can be done in close cooperation with Finland. We therefore believe that the government should be clearer in terms of how the procurement of new icebreakers can best be carried out based on different needs of industry and authorities. New icebreakers are important for the base industry in the north. They influence so that jobs can be created and developed, and it benefits the whole country. Madam President, I would like Scandinavia and Sweden are surrounded by water, and the shipping industry is therefore of central importance for our prosperity and trade. The Center Party would like to point out here that shipping is a relatively environmentally friendly form of transport with great potential to further reduce its environmental and climate impact. As regards international shipping, the IMO decided in spring 2018 on a strategy for reducing greenhouse gases from international shipping. The Center Party is pleased with this. Sweden should be a driving force for the fulfilment of these commitments. In this context, we would like to stress the importance of Sweden being a driving force within the IMO and the EU to ensure the implementation and enforcement of international agreements aimed at ensuring that shipping bears its own emissions and climate impact to a greater extent. Madam President, I would like It is clear that electrification needs to become a more integrated part of shipping and that ships should use land current instead of sleeping with engines running in port. The Center Party would point out here that one way to steer towards more use of electricity in port is to introduce environmental zones. This means that only those vessels that connect to shore currents can enter city-by-city ports, while vessels that continue to idle may lie down in outlying ports. This would provide clear incentives for cruise ships, for example, to invest in connecting equipment. Against this background, we believe that maritime environmental zones should be introduced in order to steer towards land-side connections for ships in port. Madam President, I would like With the right conditions and rules, shipping can be strengthened and developed and compete better for transport. Many people think that shipping is only important for municipalities and towns that have ports, but how wrong you are there! I, who are from the Sjuhärad district, meet at every company visit, not least in the textile industry, entrepreneurs who point out that shipping is the most important piece of the puzzle when it comes to getting their goods out into the world. Even if you do not see the port or ships on a daily basis, the whole country, all people and all businesses are affected by a strong and competitive maritime sector. Shipping is important for the whole country. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 3.
i-555a2b134126692e-960	Madam President, I would like There is much to be said about the importance and role of shipping in the Swedish transport system, about fairway fees and pilot fees, about the Swedish Maritime Administration's economy and organisation, about the fact that new icebreakers and the operation of ice mining should be included in the national plan, about long-term conditions, not least during the pandemic, about the fact that we want to increase the flag, about the importance of moving freight from road to rail and shipping, about the need for shipping to change and become even more climate- and environmentally friendly, about ports and so on. However, I am absolutely convinced that these things will be discussed by the other parties. I am content with these parts, just today, to say that shipping is important to us in the Left Party. But for us it includes those who work on board, so today I will address the working environment and working conditions of the employees. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse the Left Party's Amendment No 24. The legislation and supervision of the working environment at sea is a patchwork of rules and exceptions, which are also lagging behind the legislation applicable to the working environment on land. It is time for the Riksdag, the Government and the responsible authorities to take a holistic approach and ensure that the right to a good work environment applies to all Swedish workplaces, including those at sea. Madam President, I would like The Work Environment Act applies to any activity in which employees carry out work on behalf of an employer, with several exceptions for ships. Normally, it is the employer's responsibility to comply with the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations that apply to the operations, but within the shipping industry it is the Transporstyrelsen that announces which regulations the shipping companies must comply with and which they do not need to comply with. This means that rules sometimes do not apply at sea for several years. For example, the regulations on the organisational and social working environment for shipping were introduced several years after the regulations came into force at all other workplaces in Sweden. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has supervisory responsibility for all Swedish workplaces. The only exception applies to ships, where it is the Swedish Transport Agency that has the supervisory responsibility. However, the Swedish Transport Agency's inspections of ships focus on the ship's seaworthiness and maritime safety. It is the authority's and inspectors' area of expertise, so it is entirely reasonable. In other words, the working environment is not a priority. There is no competence for the inspection and evaluation of the social and organisational working environment. This also applies in many cases to the physical work environment that is not directly related to maritime safety. The Swedish Transport Agency does not have, and cannot be expected to have, all the skills required for the supervision of the entire working environment. The Left Party believes that the Government should draw up a plan to allow the Swedish Work Environment Authority to take over responsibility for the employees' work environment in accordance with the Work Environment Act, which otherwise applies in Sweden. But this would then be done in collaboration with the Swedish Transport Agency, which would also continue to be responsible for maritime safety and seaworthiness, what is their expertise. Madam President, I would like In addition, the Swedish Transport Agency has chosen to delegate much of its supervisory responsibilities, including in relation to health and safety at work, to so-called classification societies. These compete with each other, and criticism in oversight may result in a class society losing mission and hence income. In addition, certain checks are carried out via shipowners' self-checks where the shipowner decides whether it meets certain requirements. The Left Party questions the appropriateness and impartiality of delegating public health and safety oversight to private actors. The Left Party believes that what is the responsibility of the authority and the exercise of authority should be carried out by the responsible authority and that the Government should give the Swedish Transport Agency a directive not to transfer supervisory work concerning working conditions and working conditions to private operators. Madam President, I would like According to the Work Environment Act, safety representatives at Swedish workplaces are appointed by trade unions, but workplaces on board ships are exempted from this rule. There is a special legislation that does not allow the union to appoint safety representatives on board ships. On a ship with more than five crew members, employees may appoint a safety representative. But the rules also give the employer the right to do so, as often happens. This may mean that a seasonal or hourly employee is appointed as a safety representative without knowing what the mission entails, without the support of the union and without the possibility of questioning, filing or negotiating, for fear of losing the job. This order completely eliminates the basics of work environment work collaboration. The Government should make proposals to amend the Ship Safety Act as soon as possible so that trade unions are given the right to appoint safety representatives in the workplaces on board and that regional safety representatives have the same rights at sea as on land, in accordance with the Work Environment Act, which they do not currently have. This is an example of the wide-ranging sectoral legislation applicable to the working environment and working conditions of maritime transport, which has a major negative impact on work environment management and which entails a lack of regulatory oversight. We in the Left Party believe that the government should carry out a proper review of the sectoral legislation on the working environment and employment conditions in shipping and minimise it. Madam President, I would like Maritime cabotage is a word you don't hear very often, but it means commercial sea transport of passengers and goods between ports in a country. Cabotage rules in Sweden are based on legislation from 1724. It is the oldest legislation in force in the country. Of course, large parts are obsolete. For example, Finnish ports can no longer be counted as Swedish. However, EU rules have opened up to foreign vessels flying the flag of EEA States, but the legislation of 1724 still assumes that only Swedish-flagged vessels are allowed to carry out cabotage in Sweden. For foreign vessels working in Swedish waters, the flag State principle, not the host state principle, applies. It is therefore the law of the state in which the ship is flagged that applies on board. This opens the door to problems, not least in terms of maritime safety, health and safety at work and employment conditions. This means that foreign ships are not subject to Swedish laws and regulations and Swedish supervision even if their work is mainly carried out in Swedish waters. Also, for many of these ships, international conventions do not apply, as they are too small for these conventions to apply on board. The situation and the gap in legislation can give rise to unfair competition, where shipowners gain competitive advantages by using substandard tonnage and by dumping the conditions for employees and the requirements of the working environment. In the long run, this also means an increased risk of marine accidents and damage to the environment. The Left Party believes that it is self-evident that foreign ships used in domestic Swedish traffic should be counted as part of the Swedish maritime market and that they should be treated as if they were Swedish ships regarding supervision and rules for maritime safety, employment conditions and working environment. No employer should be able to escape their responsibilities by flying their ships dirty and thus try to escape the rules Sweden has regarding safety and safety at work and basic working conditions. It is about equal opportunities for competition, about maritime safety and about employees. The Government should make proposals for a coherent legislation for maritime cabotage in Swedish waters, in which all vessels carrying out cabotage in Sweden are subject to Swedish laws and regulations and the supervision of the Swedish authorities, regardless of the flag state. Madam President, I would like Maritime transport is a global market, and there are many problems internationally regarding working conditions and working conditions on board ships. In some cases, slave-like conditions prevail on board. According to us, state-owned companies, businesses, works and public authorities must have a special responsibility for ensuring that their operations are sustainable in terms of climate, environment and social sustainability. Several state-owned companies, such as LKAB and Sveaskog, make use of maritime transport without imposing demands on the working environment and employment conditions on board the cargo ships. The Left Party believes that all activities that the public in some way govern, including through ownership, should lead by example. The Government should therefore mandate in its ownership mandates and directives to state companies, works, businesses and authorities to use only maritime transport certified under the Responsible Shipping Initiative. Madam President, I would like Of course, workplaces at sea should also be subject to the laws and regulations that we have on working conditions and working conditions. It's time it came true.
i-555a2b134126692e-979	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 11. The documents state that there is a maritime debate in this House today. I would like to start in exactly the same way as I have done in several previous debates on shipping by saying that a maritime debate is more than just a debate on shipping. A maritime debate is a debate on jobs, on the conditions for all the hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on us trading with others. A maritime debate is a debate on the environment, because shipping is an efficient and relatively environmentally friendly mode of transport. A maritime debate is a debate on national security, because a large and diversified Swedish merchant fleet is a prerequisite for necessary transport in the event of a crisis or war. The fact that we are creating good conditions for shipping is about so much more than just shipping itself. Madam President, I would like There is broad agreement in the policy of increasing maritime transport. But a policy is also needed to achieve this goal. The most important thing we can do to achieve the goal of more transport at sea is to simplify the conditions for shipping. To do so, we must create competition neutrality. Shipping must be allowed to compete with other modes of transport on equal terms, and Swedish shipowners must be allowed to compete with foreign shipowners on equal terms. Anyone who operates in Swedish waters encounters a phenomenon that is unusual from an international perspective, namely fairway charges. This is an example of Sweden providing worse conditions for shipping than most other countries in the world around us. There are other countries that have fairway charges. Finland is an example, but it is about a level of contributions that for some years corresponds to about half of our levels. The Swedish fairway fees have also been significantly increased over a number of years. The reason for this is that the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances must go together. We cannot continue on the course with continuous, substantial increases in fees for shipping. For this reason, several parties took the initiative last year to announce to the government to investigate the conditions for finding a better agency organisation and funding than the current one. This would mean a very important improvement in shipping conditions in Sweden. Unfortunately, we have to say that it has soon been a year without the government having taken up the issue, and I have to say that this is under any criticism. The government must get started on this as soon as possible. The Christian Democrats' vision is that the Swedish Maritime Administration should be funded and given the opportunity to work even better to strengthen the role of shipping. This would be a very important step to take in order to really achieve the objective of increasing sea transport, something on which we agree across all party borders. Madam President, I would like The Swedish winter, as it is usually called in political languages, is a challenge. Not least, it is a challenge for our different modes of traffic, as winter requires that you are prepared to handle winter road maintenance. This applies to road traffic, rail traffic and, of course, maritime traffic. Sweden has five icebreakers to handle the winter traffic. They are a prerequisite for northern ports to remain open throughout the year. As a result, they are also a prerequisite for Swedish competitiveness in key industries such as steel and the forest industry. The problem is that several of these icebreakers are growing into years and need to be replaced. We believe that funding for icebreakers via fairway charges would have a very negative impact on shipping and our companies. Against this background, we believe that funding for new icebreakers should be made through appropriations. This should be announced by the Parliament today to the Government. Madam President, I would like Long-term and stable conditions are fundamental for many companies. But for investment-heavy companies such as shipping companies it is particularly important. Therefore, it is very unfortunate when conditions that have long been stable change. This happened last autumn when maritime aid, what is commonly called the net model, was reduced. I believe that it was a major mistake for the government to abandon the principle that used to apply, because it creates uncertainty for the future. This deterioration risks causing shipowners to ask themselves what principle should be abandoned next. Could there be any further deterioration? In the long run, they ask themselves why the business should be located in Sweden and why the ships should be Swedish flagged. If the shipowners ask these questions it is bad for Sweden. When the January parties deteriorated the conditions for shipping by abandoning the net model, we Christian Democrats kept the full amount in our budget. We have done so also in the budget we proposed for 2021. With our budget it would have been a restorer of the net model. Industry must have long-term prospects. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that it is high time to start developing our tonnage tax system and minimise the restrictions and uncertainties that exist for shipping companies in the current system. In other countries, the system is continuously turned on to make its own model the most attractive. We Christian Democrats also want to investigate the abolition of stamp duty. Investing in ships requires a large amount of capital, and this usually means that a loan is needed. A loan requires a security guaranteed by a pledge. When a pledge is issued, a special stamp duty is levied. When it comes to investments of hundreds of millions of crowns, the stamp duty becomes a significant amount. And since climate-smart technology is often more expensive than conventional technology, it also means that the tax on these investments is extra high. So it is not enough that we have a tax on investment. In addition, more tax will have to be paid on an environmentally friendly investment. So it works exactly the opposite of how it should work. It is precisely for this reason that the removal of stamp duty must be investigated as soon as possible. Finally, Madam President, we must work to ensure that Sweden is the best country to operate in. Then we must realise that rules on taxes and charges and levels of taxes and charges play a role. Our ambition must be that these should be designed in such a way that the conditions for investing here and operating here are not only good but actually the best. This applies, of course, to all companies in all industries. But it is particularly important when it comes to sectors where there is great international competition, such as shipping.
i-555a2b134126692e-997	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating shipping. I would like to start by saying that we are in favour of all our reservations, but I choose to ask only for reservation 21 on environmental and climate issues. The Corona virus has for a year had a strong impact on Swedish shipping. Restrictions have hit passenger traffic hard in particular, while freight traffic has done much better. It is important that passenger traffic continues to be supported in order to be ready when adequate vaccination has been carried out and people can move freely again and want to start travelling. Hopefully it will be by summer. Before the pandemic, Swedish passenger traffic transported 30 million people by ferry every year to and from Sweden. It increases people's freedom and creates jobs. That is why we need to get back to these levels. Madam President, I would like Sweden has large raw materials assets and world-leading companies that export most of their production, such as wood products and vehicles, to all parts of the world. This gives good income to Sweden, which also finances our welfare. Maritime transport accounts for 90% of our transports into the world. Therefore, the industry's development is very important for Sweden. Our inland waterways are an asset that is not being used enough, even though we are approaching the capacity ceiling on our roads and railways around the country. Only 3% of our domestic transport goes on our inland waterways, despite the fact that there are good conditions. The EU framework for inland waterways allows Sweden to set its own rules, because our waterways do not cross another country. We should therefore step up the pace of introducing the EU's regulatory framework for our inland waterways. Tray traffic provides energy and eco-efficient transport, and barge transport in our cities and regions can reduce the number of heavy goods vehicles. We believe that the regulatory framework for inland waterways needs to be examined with regard to barge traffic in order to identify the legislation that prevents barge traffic, as we believe barge traffic will have good prospects in the future. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Maritime Administration is central to the development of shipping. The Authority is mainly financed through fairway and pilot fees from merchant shipping. The goal is to have a long-term economy in balance. However, the work has for a number of years had a strained economy that worsened in 2020. A further increase in fairway charges could jeopardise the competitiveness of Swedish shipping, especially as our neighbouring countries during the pandemic have reduced or removed their fairway charges. We therefore want to see a dialogue between the Swedish Maritime Administration and representatives of the maritime industry on how a tariff system can be designed, where transport efficiency and incentives for wise environmental choices govern and where the Swedish Maritime Administration's long-term economy is ensured. An important parameter in these discussions is that Sweden must remain competitive towards its neighbours. The impact of pilotage charges on the competitiveness of different ports is also a parameter that needs to be taken into account. Here digital pilotage can be a measure to reduce costs in the future. Madam President, I would like The Swedish icebreakers urgently need to be replaced. Icebreakers have an important function to keep Swedish ports ice-free, so that companies can plan risk-free for ice-free exports of products via our ports all year round. This applies not least to those companies that want to move over to shipping after having previously sent their products by road and rail. It is important that the procurement of icebreakers is carried out and that it is done from a broad perspective that takes into account different government needs, not least from a defence point of view, and at the same time cooperates with Finland. These are heavy investment decisions that will be made in the future. In view of the pressures of the pandemic on the system, and not least at the Swedish Maritime Administration, and the subsequent increases in fees, the need for specific funding for the financing of icebreakers should be examined. In order to succeed in the transfer of goods from road to shipping, there must be an increased focus on infrastructure to our ports. Roads, railways and public transport must work. This applies not least to the railway to the Port of Gothenburg, which is Scandinavia's largest port. Seventy percent of the estate goes to the West Main Line. And when the dredging in the port of Gothenburg is completed in 2026, the goods can increase significantly. But it is important then that the Western Main Line has sufficient capacity, because Gothenburg cannot accept all this goods if it is going on a truck. Finally, Madam President, it is positive for the climate to transport large flows of goods on water rather than on the road. Climate investment in shipping is important to further reduce emissions and the number of road transport while maintaining our competitiveness. There is a need for incentives for maritime transport to reduce its emissions. The environmental impact of fairway charges is important here. This could involve improving the efficiency of ports and other places where goods are transferred from road and rail transport to maritime transport. In my view, those who are involved in switching to sustainable and transport-efficient transport should also receive a reduction in charges. In order to reach Sweden's target of 70 percent CO2 reduction in transport by 2030 and fossil-free transport by 2045, we also need to increase the investment in electrification of smaller ferries and ships. Biofuels also need, as far as possible, priority to be given to shipping, among other things, in order to facilitate the industry's transition to fossil-free transport. We need to invest in research into hydrogen and electrofuels and their infrastructure in the future. In addition, ships should be given incentives to use land current instead of using fossil fuel engines in port. One way to steer towards more use of electricity in port is to introduce differentiated port charges or to say that only those vessels connecting to land currents may visit the city-by-city ports. The Swedish ports should also be prepared to provide fossil-free ship fuels. We believe that the Swedish Energy Agency should make it easier for port owners to prepare for the change of technology. Finally, I would like to mention that washed exhaust gases brought into the sea are a source of pollution in marine ecosystems. That is why we in the Liberals want Sweden to work to ban scrubbers that lead down pollution into the sea. Swedish shipping has an important task in leading the way to fossil-free maritime transport. I therefore support our Amendment No 21 on environmental and climate issues.
i-555a2b134126692e-1012	Madam President, I would like Shipping is important for our entire country. It stands for the most part for both imports from and exports to all corners of the world. About 90 percent of our export and import volumes are transported by ship during any part of the process from raw material to finished product. At the beginning of the coronapandemy, many of us were probably concerned about how our supply would be, but it has proved to be workable in any case according to the circumstances. Sweden is and remains an export-dependent country that needs shipping. Madam President, I would like Last year I stood here in the speaker's chair to take the maritime debate instead of my colleague Johan Büser, who, because of what was then the start of the pandemic we have chosen to stay home in Gothenburg. Today, a year later, I stand again here instead of my colleague Johan Büser, who has a lighter cold. We are in the midst of the pandemic, and we follow the recommendations of the Public Health Agency: Stay home when you are sick! The pandemic has hit and hit people, jobs and businesses hard, but on the whole we have been able to use the strong public finances to keep people going at a difficult time. The government's comprehensive initiatives have kept both people and companies above water level. For maritime transport, inter alia, short-term lay-offs, the temporary regulation on maritime aid and some other regulatory simplifications have been important. At the same time, we see that, for example, shipping companies with a focus on passenger traffic have been hit hard in the form of strongly declining activities. We will probably also see a lot of behavioural changes after the pandemic, which will play a role in what tours will be able to be maintained and in what activities will look like in the future. The substantial aid that has been granted has been absolutely necessary for us to be able to restart Sweden in due course. This involves, among other things, continuing with the focus on strengthening shipping that the Government Löfven has had since it took office. A number of important initiatives have been taken in the field of maritime transport. A tonnage tax system is in place to make Swedish shipping more competitive, and the number of Swedish flagged ships has increased in recent years. The issue of flagging out is also central from a defence policy perspective: In order for our country to make a living in the event of a crisis or war, Sweden needs its own ships in the Swedish merchant fleet. In addition, of course, we need to be able to protect our central ports. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven returns in his government declarations to the goal that Sweden should become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Domestic transport will reduce its emissions by ambitious 70% by 2030 and be free of CO2 emissions by 2045. It is absolutely essential to use both shipping and rail to a much greater extent than today if we are to achieve the objective. In addition to planned major infrastructure investments in both rail and maritime transport, a national coordinator has been appointed to implement measures through an action plan to stimulate Swedish domestic shipping. The right conditions are the assessment that twice as much goods can be transported in water in 2040. The work is carried out together with other authorities and the entire maritime and transport sectors, and is based on the Government's freight transport strategy. At the end of last year, the Government decided to extend the mandate of the National Coordinator for Domestic and Short Sea Shipping to include the mission to create incentives for the transfer of goods from road to maritime transport through dialogue with ports and to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. The pricing of port charges levied by port owners in Sweden, for example, affects the competitiveness of shipping against other modes of transport and thus how goods are transported. A more efficient charging system that strengthens the competitiveness of shipping and has better conditions to steer towards fossil freedom is part of what is being sought. I would also like to mention the previously extended support for research with a focus on maritime transport, which has been necessary and appreciated and where many applications have also been granted. Madam President, I would like In May 2018, the Government made a decision on the national traffic law-wide plan for the transport infrastructure for the planning period 2018 – 2029. Some of the important investments in shipping that were there and that are worth mentioning are Luleå harbour, the locks in Trollhättan, the locks in Södertälje and the fairway in Mälaren. Of course, the dredging and fairway depth in Gothenburg are also worth mentioning, which means that Scandinavia's largest port in the future will be able to receive ever larger boats – even the largest – through direct shipping from all corners of the world. Last year, the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to review the working environment for on-board employees. The investigation into the fair conditions at sea will investigate and propose safety-enhancing measures and control options that can contribute to a more safe, sustainable and efficient shipping. The Swedish Transport Agency shall focus in particular on what can be done to improve working and living conditions on board. The fact that Sweden takes precedence in terms of good conditions for personnel on ships operating in Swedish waters increases the attractiveness of the shipping industry and improves safety at sea. In the near future, the bill that will point out the direction of the infrastructure in the coming years will also be presented here in the Riksdag. That is something we all look forward to and of course will be able to take part in. Madam President, I would like During the year that has passed, we social democrats in the Committee on Transport have had a large number of meetings with representatives of the shipping industry. It is about shipowners, trade unions, port representatives, politicians and government officials at different levels. There have been many digital meetings that have constantly given us valuable updates in the maritime field. In the future, I see a number of additional challenges for our shipping. Efforts to strengthen maritime transport and Sweden's role as a maritime nation must continue. We should be leaders when it comes to maritime issues, both from an economic, social and environmental perspective. The Swedish flag must continue, and we should stimulate this further. Incentives for changing the climate may need to be reviewed. It will be safer to work at sea, and it will be recruited in the industry. Our icebreakers are getting old, so the design project we have together with Finland is gratifying. It will be presented later years, and it is an issue that needs to be resolved – not least in view of our country's competitiveness. Madam President, I would like Without shipping Sweden stops. Without shipping no prosperity. And when it comes to the importance of shipping, we are all in the same boat. I would therefore like to support the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU7 Maritime Affairs in its entirety.
i-555a2b134126692e-1028	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear Teres Lindberg's fine words about shipping. I thought I heard that Teres Lindberg mentioned that the Swedish flagged fleet has increased in scale. I would say that this is not true at all. Two years ago we had 100 Swedish ships. Today, when I am standing here, we have 100 Swedish ships. This means that the fleet has not increased in scale. I also heard Teres Lindberg mention that we need to use rail and shipping more. But what's going on, Teres Lindberg? Why is there no transfer? I know that the government has appointed a national coordinator for short sea shipping and coastal shipping. I have not seen any results whatsoever from the national coordinator. I do not believe in any way that the national coordinator is bad; it is a very competent person. I also think it's a bit funny that you choose to expand the mission when no increased transfer has been delivered. The Good Strategy Council has also failed. There has been no more transfer of goods to either rail or shipping. There are some simple things that could have helped shipping along. It is about stamp duty that becomes a fee, about reviewing and restoring the net model and about reviewing the tonnage tax that we have now tried for a couple of years. The government has promised to do so.
i-555a2b134126692e-1032	Madam President, I would like There's a lot going on right now. Not least, the pandemic has caused some things to freeze. But the National Coordinator continues to work. I would also like to tell Mr Ståhl that this is a rather difficult job and a great deal of process where it is about moving things and changing the behaviour of both buyers and clients. In addition, it is about investments that take time and are quite large. Just take the dredging and the extension of Gothenburg harbour and Luleå harbour and so on. These are the prerequisites for us to be able to move more goods, but that is not the cop out of his nose, but it takes many years to execute and complete that kind of investment. For that matter, the planning phase is also a very long process. Regardless of what infrastructure investments we are talking about, these are lengthy processes. Changing the behaviour of clients is also lengthy processes that you need to work with in the long term. There is a great deal of work going on, and I look with confidence at the work being done at the Government Office at the moment.
i-555a2b134126692e-1036	Madam President, I would like I would also like to remind Teres Lindberg that we have an infrastructure department dealing with clean infrastructure issues. I would have been a little more concerned if the infrastructure had been under the Ministry of Industry as it previously did, but now you have all the world's opportunities to focus precisely on infrastructure through the new department. I did not hear a sound about changing the stamp tax to a levy, introducing the old net model or reviewing the tonnage tax. In my speech, I described a transport between Norvik Port and Mälarhamn – a transport that costs ships over SEK 100 000 in fees. This transport could have been carried by sea, but it is not, because the charges are too high. It is easier and cheaper, but not more environmentally friendly, to drive this by truck. Then you've failed. I would like to hear what Teres Lindberg says: has the national coordinator succeeded in his task? Has the Good Strategy Council succeeded in its missions in making transfers? I would also like to ask Teres Lindberg: Which Swedish flagged ships is it that the government sees that I have missed? I haven't seen any Swedish flagged new ships in over two years. We had the world's chance now that England via Brexit left the Union to get lots of Swedish-flagged ships, but we did not take the chance. We have no regulations, and we make it difficult for ships to become Swedish. I find it distressing, and I would like to hear what Teres Lindberg says about this.
i-555a2b134126692e-1040	Madam President, I would like It is a bit presumptuous of Jimmy Ståhl to question why no further flagging has taken place in Sweden during a year when we have been under a pandemic. Both the shipping industry and the government have had some other things to focus on. In addition, I would like to say that it is nice that Mr Ståhl mentions the Ministry of Infrastructure and at the same time talks about the tasks of another department. We do not have a tax debate here today, but we are discussing the conditions for shipping. The tax issues are by definition at the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Committee. However, these are important issues. The tonnage tax system is important for shipping. We all know that, and it affects very much. We must continue to follow these questions, but they do not really belong here. I know that the Department of Infrastructure and actually the entire Transport Committee, regardless of the party colour and including Jimmy Ståhl, care very much about shipping. We see the need for the Swedish shipping industry. I think we should continue to do that, and it is important that we can draw these questions together. When we implemented the tonnage tax system, it was also almost a united parliament that supported it here because we knew that it improves the conditions for shipping. I think we should keep doing that. It is also an invitation to all my colleagues here in the Swedish Parliament and in this House to continue to provide good conditions for shipping, because in the long term it will both bring climate benefits when we manage to change and give Sweden a strengthened competitiveness.
i-555a2b134126692e-1045	Madam President, I would like I would like to dwell on two decisions taken here in Parliament last year. This concerns decisions where a majority of the Riksdag gave the Government an announcement, that is, a majority here in the Swedish Parliament made a clear decision. This applies not least to the Swedish Maritime Administration. I think we have all met representatives of the Swedish Maritime Administration who warn that their economy is on a sloping plane. The only way for them to save it is to increase fairway charges, which would reduce the competitiveness of shipping and make the transfer of goods from road to shipping more difficult. I know that the government has done nothing about that announcement. Then there is another announcement concerning environmentally differentiated fairway charges. Teres Lindberg spoke very warmly in his speech about the climate goals we have and the high ambitions that Sweden and the government have regarding the climate. She talked about coordinators and action plans, and it is certainly good that there are coordinators and action plans, but it is not worth anything if there is no workshop. One way to achieve these objectives is to look at the possibility of environmentally differentiated fairway charges, which reward those who promote their ships using more environmentally friendly fuels. These are two for shipping, and the latter also for the climate, extremely important announcements that the government has completely ignored this year. My question to Teres Lindberg is: When will the government address these two important issues and ensure that there will be a workshop and not more coordinators and action plans?
i-555a2b134126692e-1050	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Maria Stockhaus, for important questions. As Maria Stockhaus says, there were two announcements last year. I believe that, at the moment, we must have a great deal of respect for the crisis that also exists in the shipping industry and a great understanding of the challenges and difficulties that exist there. A large part, not least on the passenger side, has been forced to use the short-term lay-offs decided by the government. The Swedish Maritime Administration has received a capital injection of 300 million last year. The Government has also abolished the Swedish Maritime Administration's financial target up to 2024 in order to create greater flexibility for the transition that needs to take place. It's connected to what the announcement is about. Otherwise, this question is being prepared in the Government Office at the moment. With regard to the environmentally differentiated fairway charges, the regulatory letters for 2020 and 2021 state that the funds used for environmental incentives should not be subject to the current limit on fairway charges, i.e. the increase in fairway charges should not exceed inflation. From this perspective, the Swedish Maritime Administration has an environmental incentive. I think that is important, because we need additional environmental incentives for shipping too.
i-555a2b134126692e-1054	Madam President, I would like I note that what Teres Lindberg says in principle is that nothing has happened with regard to the two announcements. Yes, absolutely, we have a pandemic, but I cannot think that the government has excelled either when it comes to leadership precisely on pandemic issues. Even if we are in the midst of a pandemic, you cannot let go of all the other issues, and you cannot ignore the majority in parliament that makes announcements to the government. I cannot see that any investigation or coordinator has been set up. Nothing has happened about any of the announcements. It seems important to patch and fix the funding of the Swedish Maritime Administration instead of addressing the big issue that we have a problem with the fact that we have a work that is completely dependent on the fairway fees for its survival, which is the only revenue they have. It is extremely important that at least an investigation into the long-term funding of the Swedish Maritime Administration is carried out. They need long-term conditions to be able to do a good job and strengthen the shipping industry in Sweden. They do not have that today, as they feel a great deal of uncertainty if they are able to finance their activities in the future. Then it is strange that the government, which has very high tails when it comes to environmental and climate issues, fails most of the practical policies it actually implements because it has no impact on the climate at all. And here you have an announcement that you don't care about. Although it is a pandemic, it is reasonable to at least set up an investigation to review how to use environmentally differentiated charges to increase incentives for shipping to switch.
i-555a2b134126692e-1059	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind Maria Stockhaus that I am a social democrat in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and not in the government. But the last time I asked the government and the ministry, I got the answer that both announcements are being prepared in the Government Office, and I have no doubt that it is actually being done. The government has also made it possible for the Swedish Maritime Administration to increase environmental incentives, so things are happening here. Then I have to remind Maria Stockhaus that it was not we Social Democrats who made the Swedish Maritime Administration a business operation that would finance all of its activities with fees, but it was someone else. It makes me wonder whether the Moderates are prepared to reconsider their previous position on how the Swedish Maritime Administration will operate in the future. In the long term, I think it is important that we have a maritime service that actually works. It is also important that we have fairway charges that work. I believe that the fact that there are restrictions on fairway charges today is quite important, because long-term conditions are needed for shipping. At the same time, environmental incentives and incentives are needed for shipping to cope with our high ambition to have a net zero emission by 2045.
i-555a2b134126692e-1062	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal for a decision to be approved. The climate crisis places great demands on the transformation of society, not least of all modes of transport. Maritime transport has the potential to be an important part of climate change, as it is an energy efficient mode of transport. That is why the Green Party, like the government, wants more goods to be transported by sea. At the same time, shipping today is extremely dependent on fossil energy. It is even the case that greenhouse gas emissions from both domestic and international shipping are increasing. However, maritime governance is complex. Foreign shipping is included as known not in the net zero target until 2045. The Government announced in the Climate Action Plan that it would like to commission the Environmental Objectives Committee to develop targets for shipping. Setting a goal is the first step. However, concrete measures are also needed in order for shipping to change. The report we are debating here in Parliament today concerns, among other things, fairway fees. The Green Party believes that this is a very important tool for creating financial incentives that motivate shipping companies to invest in as environmentally and climate-smart ships as possible. They also need to promote traffic that leads to reduced energy consumption and thus reduced emissions. And yes, the fairway charges already have some environmental differentiation today, but this would have to be much more governing. Therefore, a strong environmental differentiation of fairway charges should be implemented that rewards investments and operations that contribute to reduced climate impact. Like the rest of the transport sector, the modal shift of shipping requires more efficient transport and new types of fuels for operation in the form of both electrification and sustainable biofuels. Electric power and batteries can provide a good solution for ferries, in particular, that run relatively short distances, and various forms of hybrid solutions can be used for other purposes. For example, batteries combined with alternative fuels can be a good solution. Increased incentives for electrification are needed. With regard to alternative fuels, I would particularly like to highlight the potential of biogas in the form of liquid fuel, so-called LBG. However, as I said earlier, shipping must be made more efficient, and there comes the question of speed. Speed limits also provide an opportunity to reduce emissions. When ships are in port, energy is consumed. The energy can be consumed in the form of a fuel that produces local emissions, or the energy can come from a land connection to the electricity grid. We want to see more land connections and better air quality in the port cities that ships call for. However, it is important that policies recognise that the transition to climate-smart technologies can be costly for the ports and shipping companies that choose that route. Here we politicians have a responsibility. As always, it should be easy to do the right thing. Maritime transport has an environmental impact in addition to its CO2 emissions. Emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides and particulate matter are among some of the unpleasant things that, due to our shipping, affect both man and the environment. There is a constant need for improvement in this area. For example, the Green Party wants to see a ban on the discharge of scrubbing water, which we know has a negative impact on the marine environment. Shipping is complex and slow to move. It is governed by international regulations, and the life span of ships is long, over 30 years. This means that the ships being built today will be on the seas for a long time. It is therefore important to constantly work to reduce environmental impacts through both national tools and international negotiations. Sweden needs to remain a strong voice within the IMO for a more sustainable and environmentally friendly shipping. We also need research and innovation in the maritime sector. I am following, not least, the development of modern sailing ships, which benefit from the power of the wind. It should certainly not be seen as out-of-date simply because the technology has been used in different ways over thousands of years. The report we are now discussing also touches on the issue of icebreakers. Many of the industry's representatives are concerned about the public's ability to ensure both the availability and reliability of industry and trade throughout the year. This is crucial. A logistics chain is no stronger than its weakest link, and the industry is already witnessing long-term downsizing due to breakdowns. In order to avoid the industry turning to road traffic to ensure its transport, it is crucial that we see the needs and arrive at an investment plan as soon as possible for new icebreakers. The Green Party also wants to review the possibility of financing ice mining in other ways than via fairway charges. It would create better conditions for shipping if the state took responsibility for what is the sea's equivalent of snow clearance. Our inland waterways are under-utilised, and further measures are needed to exploit the potential. A challenge is the requirement for pilotage, which can be very costly for small vessels operating, for example, Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren, which constitute an important relief for the road network. We want to review the possibility of having a more need-driven pilotage obligation and to lower the maximum ceiling for pilotage costs for Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren in order to promote traffic on our inland waterways. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has been driving the introduction of eco-bonus. Now we are struggling to see a broader eco-bonus so that more actors in the transport chain can receive support for the necessary shift of transport from road to rail and shipping. The Green Party also wants to see a green port strategy, and I myself exercise it again last autumn. The inspiration comes from the Norwegian coastal strategy from 2019 with a stated goal of ports being fossil-free by 2030. We know that ports are crucial for sustainable shipping. It is in the ports that there is the possibility of land power and of bunkering sustainable fuels. I was therefore pleased when the coordinator for domestic shipping in November was given a deeper mandate to work in dialogue with ports on incentives for transfer and to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport and promote the conversion of maritime transport to fossil freedom. As I said, shipping is an energy-efficient mode of transport, so the Green Party sees shipping as an important piece of the puzzle in the transition to a fossil-free transport sector, even though shipping is not fossil-free today. It is therefore important to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport.
i-555a2b134126692e-1085	Madam President, I would like I listened carefully to Emma Berginger's speech. I noticed that the Green Party wants more goods at sea, which is very positive. The environmental party is part of the government base and has an opportunity to influence the government in a completely different way from an opposition party.
i-555a2b134126692e-1088	Since we got the national coordinator and the good strategy, nothing has happened to me. It's sad. Madam President, I would like I would also like to know what Emma Berginger and the Green Party think about the cost of 100 000 for transporting a ship between Stockholm Norvik Port and Mälaren. Are these fees that Emma Berginger and the Green Party feel comfortable with? Are these charges that could easily be removed via the inland waterway option? The large part of the traffic is in protected water. We could also operate barges to relieve road traffic. I'm a little curious about Emma Berginger's answer.
i-555a2b134126692e-1091	Madam President, I would like It is a pleasure that there are Members who listen carefully to what they say when they stand in the speaker's seat. As I made clear, the Green Party wants to see more goods at sea, and we are working for this within the government. You don't always see what a government party does. It is easy to be an opposition party and in time and without time to proclaim what you want to do more and better. In a government cooperation where you have both a government partner and cooperation parties outside the government to deal with, it's about getting through what we come up with together. The Green Party highlights shipping in many different contexts and pushes forward on these issues, not least in budgetary negotiations and negotiations on the infrastructure bill mentioned earlier in the debate, which is expected shortly. The Green Party believes it is important that we invest in shipping. Just as we thought there should be investments in maritime transport in the previous national plan, we think there should be investments in maritime transport in the forthcoming national plan. As I said, we want to see a broader eco-bonus and more environmentally differentiated fairway fees. As I also mentioned in my speech, we also think that we should consider a maximum ceiling on pilotage and find ways of promoting coastal shipping and inland navigation. Therefore, the Government has appointed the Special Coordinator. It's not all about money. Sometimes it is about finding collaboration between different actors and things that can be done at government level without the need for a proposal to the Riksdag. The government is actively working to improve the conditions for shipping. However, I can agree that it should go faster, and the Green Party wants more than the government has delivered.
i-555a2b134126692e-1098	Madam President, I would like I fully share Emma Berginger's pilot analysis. Here we can go hand in hand, because here we have the same vision. There is a great need for competent pilotage, but the regulatory framework should be reviewed and simplified. It is difficult for Emma Berginger to speak on behalf of the previous speaker, Teres Lindberg, who cannot stand here now and defend herself. But I'm curious if Emma Berginger has the same thoughts. In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we are talking about certain issues, while certain issues end up in the Committee on Finance. But regardless of the committee, everything lands on shipping. I assume that you will talk to your colleagues in the other committees about the challenges of ships. At least I'm talking to Oscar Sjöstedt in the Committee on Finance to do the best for shipping. This involves, for example, moving from stamp duty to stamp duty, a net model and tonnage tax. Just as Emma Berginger was in the past, it is easy to see in opposition all the shortcomings, because there are many when it comes to shipping. I have lined up a battery with problems that can be solved in a fairly simple and inexpensive way. Then, Madam President, in my last few seconds, I was going to ask Emma Berginger whether she believes that eco-bonus has helped with the transfer of goods.
i-555a2b134126692e-1102	Madam President, I would like As I said, the Green Party sees an untapped potential in domestic and coastal shipping, and therefore we want to work with a maximum ceiling on pilot duty and also review the possibilities for a more need-driven pilotage obligation. We think this is important. I can also say that these issues are obviously closely linked to the economy. That is why, as I mentioned earlier, this is one of the issues that we raise in budget negotiations. I have a good dialogue with my colleague Karolina Skog, who is on the Committee on Finance. Sometimes we meet the industry together. I know that Svensk Sjöfart knows that we both are passionate about and pushing these issues, and I therefore feel safe with our cooperation. The question is what it looks like in other parties and whether everyone shares the ambitions of the Green Party. Here we can see that the Green Party wants to do more. We want to get a wider ecobonus. We believe that ecobonus itself has had positive effects, but we would like to see a wider ecobonus that has greater potential to give more effect to the transfer. We need to move quickly in order to make our transport more efficient and thereby achieve our environmental and climate objectives. What is in the government's good strategy is important: that we want to transfer transport from road to rail and shipping because we see that shipping is an energy-efficient mode of transport that has good potential to relieve the rest of the infrastructure in the country. At the same time, we see a need to change shipping, and that is why I mentioned, for example, a highly environmentally differentiated fairway fee. This is something we really want to see implemented. We think we have a range of measures that we would like to see implemented in this area, and we are active on these issues in our cooperation with both the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals.
i-555a2b134126692e-1108	Madam President, I would like Public transport, which we are going to debate now, is important for Sweden. It is an important means of reducing climate emissions and facilitates people's everyday lives in many places in the country. Today, domestic transport accounts for one third of Sweden's total emissions. If we really want to achieve our ambitious climate targets if no net greenhouse gas emissions in 2045 and a 70% reduction in emissions from domestic transport by 2030, public transport has a key role to play in achieving this. It is positive that many cities are now switching to electric vehicles. Although there are many of us who want to protect public transport, it is not an end in itself. It opens up society and increases accessibility for many, but problems arise when public transport is more expensive than, for example, taxis. It counteracts the purpose and then pulls Sweden in completely the wrong direction. Madam President, I would like A clear example of when things get completely wrong is travel to and from Arlanda. We Moderates believe that collective travel to and from Arlanda Airport must be facilitated. More people travel by taxi and private cars to Arlanda Airport compared to how to travel to other airports in our Nordic neighbours. Even if we may not go to airports so often during the pandemic, it is still a problem that we need to address for the future. One reason why it looks like this is the agreement signed with A-A-Train, which the government chose to extend, two years ago I think it was. As a result, it is simply cheaper to take a taxi or carpool by car to Arlanda, including parking, than to take the train. We believe that this is completely unreasonable from an environmental point of view, and the government therefore needs to initiate a review to strengthen collective travel to and from Arlanda Airport. Another example where you do not take the whole picture into account or want to create better conditions for travel is when planning and planning for high-speed trains and then lifting the stations at Landvetter and Skavsta. In all other countries they are trying to build up traffic teams to make it easier for people to travel collectively to airports, for example, but here we are doing the opposite. We should think of the whole and intermodality of our transport system, including public transport, in order to facilitate commuting and travel and the possibility of changing modes of transport. In the tracks of the coronapndemine follow many unexpected effects. One of these is that poaching has increased significantly and created an unsustainable pattern of behaviour in Swedish public transport. The statistics may be gloomy as overall fewer people chose to travel collectively in 2020. This says something about the proportion of travellers who choose not to pay for themselves, and it sees a pattern of behaviour that unfortunately can remain after the pandemic. If this is allowed to continue, it can have far-reaching consequences that hinder the development of public transport in Sweden. It should be a matter of course to pay for yourself if you use a service, but it seems that many have forgotten in the wake of the pandemic. We believe that work must be stepped up to combat the cheating of rail transport without paying for it. We are seeing today how people are breaking this, how guards are being threatened and beaten, and that people are defying the ban on begging inside the wagons on the tram or subway. This shows that the fight against fraud and other crime must be stepped up. It is not just a question of illegality, but of the regions operating public transport simply not getting enough revenue from tickets. This threatens traffic in the long term. In the case of other public transport crime, it has the ability to scare away travellers rather than attract them to public transport. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to talk about public transport without discussing how the pandemic has affected public transport. The regions are trying to keep traffic going so that those who work in professions where it is not possible to work at home can get to and from work. The regions have also been called upon not to cut back on traffic for that very reason. The government has provided financial support for this but not enough. In our budget, which unfortunately fell, we spent 1 billion more than the government on public transport, and this money would have been needed to cover the deficits of regional public transport organisations. We also see that there is a risk when it comes to regional public transport in Sweden. SJ has already threatened to withdraw traffic in Mälardalen, and there are also other areas in Sweden where there is a risk that the pandemic will have a negative impact on reducing or cancelling traffic. This is something we need to keep an eye on, and the government needs to act to ensure that it does not happen. With this, Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that we support all our reservations in the report but that we are calling for the approval of reservation number 9 only.
i-555a2b134126692e-1119	Madam President, I would like I will begin by stating that the Swedish Democrats are behind all our reservations, but in order to gain time I only ask for our reservation 9, which is common to the Moderates and concerns the collective travel to Arlanda Airport. Madam President, I would like We live in a difficult time. The Coronandem hits hard and mercilessly. In Sweden alone, over 13,000 have faced premature death. Healthcare goes on its knees, businesses get to fire or lay down and we are forced to live a life with fewer social contacts and very limited leisure time. Yet, in an economic perspective, Sweden has managed quite well compared to many other countries. As part of reducing the spread of infection, all the parliamentary parties are behind the call for public transport to be maintained and there should be plenty of space on trains and buses. However, Madam President, this has a price for the country's public transport company. When public transport companies face a gigantic pace of travel, the temptation is great to reduce the number of passengers offered in order to reduce losses. That is why we believe that the government must compensate the public transport companies in full. We Swedish democrats understood that the pandemic would hit just as hard this year, and we chose in our budget to fully compensate the public transport companies for the thorn. We allocated EUR 8 billion for this, while the government allocated only EUR 2 billion. 8 billion is about the sum that will probably be close to the loss that will occur at the end of the year. By this we mean that the government is sending out completely the wrong signals. Despite the low funding from the government, most public transport companies have largely run full traffic, although they will get a big hole in the budget. And for this I would like to congratulate them. In addition, maintaining traffic makes it easier to keep passengers in the system and hopefully loses fewer passengers to the car after the pandemic blows off. Madam President, I would like Sweden is generally a sparsely populated country, and although we want as many people as possible to travel collectively, many people depend on the car for everyday life to work. For decades, it has been a trend for companies to place their jobs in larger cities, and if everyone had chosen to drive to workplaces and study places, the roads in the larger cities would have been more or less stupid again. We don't want that. A key factor in choosing public transport is getting to and from work on time. This also applies to other important matters such as meetings and other matters. What has been evident during the coronapndemine is that fewer trains and fewer passengers make the trains easier to keep time. Here we find the biggest challenge for public transport. In the metropolitan regions there is a lack of capacity on the tracks. In many cases the problem is called single tracks, but around Gothenburg and Stockholm and in Skåne it is also distances that are double-tracked that need to be expanded to four-track. The latter include the section Gothenburg– Alingsås, the section from Uppsala to the county border towards Stockholm and the section Lund– Hässleholm. If we look at the Swedish Transport Administration's capacity investigation for 2020, we find something interesting. Four of the five most loaded single-track tracks are located in Skåne, and one is located in Småland. Most acute is the section Hässleholm– Kristianstad, which has 108 trains per day, then the section Ängelholm – Helsingborg by 101 trains and then the section Alvesta– Växjö as good thirds with 98 trains per day. Of these, only the section Ängelholm– Helsingborg is partly being expanded into double tracks right now. I think we all know how disturbing single-track is, and instead of big dreams of high-speed trains, we should first of all look at the bottlenecks that exist today and which can be built away by rather small means. For example, construction of double tracks for the Hässleholm – Kristianstad section is estimated to cost approximately 1.9 billion. It's a distance of less than 30 miles. This route affects a very large number of travelers between Malmö and Karlskrona and between Kristianstad and Helsingborg. It is so bad that Region Skåne and a couple of municipalities offer to co-finance the project with half a billion to make double tracks happen. I call on the government and its support parties to start building off the bottlenecks instead of delivering investigation after investigation into high-cost trains – sorry, high-speed trains. Madam President, I would like In order to facilitate commuting by train or bus, it is also important that there are good commuter parking within walking distance of the stations. These should also make the environment around them feel safe, and then it is good with sensible lighting and preferably camera monitoring. It is not a question of own security but of the certainty that the car will not be vandalised. Through good commuter parking, we mean that more people would choose to make the majority of their trip collective. Here I would also like to raise our reservation 9, where we say that it should be cheaper to get collectively to Sweden's largest airport Arlanda. The Swedish Democrats and the Moderates want the government to review the existing agreement with A-train. Instead of half-full Arlanda trains and full motorways, we should be able to get at lower fares on the train to achieve fewer car and taxi journeys. Madam President, I would like It should be easy to travel collectively, and for those who want to travel collectively in several regions, we need to facilitate ticketing for this. The various county transport companies are working together to develop a ticketing system that is nationwide. I would have liked to have seen this work progress at a higher rate than today. It should also be easy to buy a ticket for those who are older or have some form of disability. There are virtually no ticket offices left, and for many older people it is perceived as difficult and frightening to book a ticket online or to pick up a booked ticket in automatics. For example, if you have a loss of vision, it is not easy to buy a ticket via an app or in an automatic machine. The Swedish Democrats have a reservation here where we also mention the possibility of buying tickets in cash. In the group of older people and people with disabilities there are many who are dependent on travel services for their daily lives. The transport service is part of public transport and is under us in the Transport Committee, but the question is whether it should be under the Social Affairs Committee. Until 1997, the Transport Service was regulated by the Social Services Act. The service often includes vulnerable people. The seriousness of drivers and airlines in the transport service is of course of the utmost importance. Unfortunately, we do not rarely see how passengers have been in trouble. These could be accidents where staff lacked training, cars that did not come, cars that drop demented people in the wrong place, companies that go bankrupt because of dumped prices, drivers or travel bookers who do not master the language so that driving goes to the wrong address and more. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that a review of the service is needed to make travel safer for users. In such a review, it should also include the possibility for a traveller to have short breaks, for example, to pick up and leave children at a school and to establish the right to travel services in a municipality other than his own. Finally, Madam President, I would particularly like to raise the important issue of threats and violence against public transport personnel, which was also raised by Maria Stockhaus. We see a growing problem in the fact that this group is becoming increasingly exposed to violence, often from so-called youth gangs who refuse to pay tickets or are generally messy. The worst affected are our train hosts, ticket controllers, bus drivers and others who have direct customer contact. It has gone so far that SJ flagged in order to possibly stop staying in Kumla. The gangs also spread insecurity to the travelers. To overcome this growing problem, we need to get to grips with it. More trains and buses need to be monitored, more train security officers are needed at night and night, but just as in the government proposal for a ban on access to shops, I think we should also introduce a ban on access for dangerous people in public transport. This is also what the trade union Seko is asking for. Madam President, I would like We need more force against the bully, and we need more severe punishment for those who harass and use violence. Wherever you are in the country, public transport included, you should feel safe, regardless of the time of day. Those who threaten or use violence should not travel by train or bus, they should travel in a police car to prison.
i-555a2b134126692e-1134	Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to see more public transport so that we can increase accessibility and reduce emissions throughout the country. During the Alliance, the market share of public transport increased – from 18 per cent in 2006 to 27 per cent in 2013. Since then, the positive development of public transport has stopped, something that the current coronapndemine is in danger of cementing. Many people today take the car but would have liked to have taken the bus, train or tram instead. We need to increase public transport in order to push back climate emissions and reduce congestion on our roads.
i-555a2b134126692e-1138	As a consequence of the pandemic, we have seen traffic in public transport falling. It is very unfortunate, not least from a climate perspective. It is of great importance that the contracting authorities, the 21 regions of the country, separately and sometimes in collaboration, such as Norrtåg, work together with the Public Health Agency and operators to regain confidence in public transport. The changes in travel habits that occur in the wake of the pandemic must not become permanent. Madam President, I would like We also want to promote a review of existing legislation on public transport to enable new collective transport solutions. There is every opportunity to think new. Mobility as a service, Maas, is a way of mixing transport modes and tying them together in the same travel fund in more ways than is being done today. The bus, train and rental bike are linked in the same booking. Transport is essential for our everyday life to work. Today, women and men travel in different ways. Public transport is mainly used by women, while men choose the car to a greater extent. Women travel more sustainably today by travelling collectively and not putting themselves and others at great risk in traffic. Equal transport is about giving women and men equal opportunities for, for example, work commuting, training commuting and pre-school collection. In order to develop a more equal and therefore more sustainable transport system, it is also necessary for both women and men to participate in discussions and decisions concerning the transport system. Overall, women need to be involved in the planning process to a much greater extent. Several studies show that women are not as represented as men in the planning of new residential areas, roads and other social infrastructure. It's been 100 years since we got equal and universal suffrage. It is high time that women were given the opportunity to develop one of the most important structures in society: traffic. Madam President, I would like Increased regional public transport by bus, train and taxi favours sustainable regional enlargement and gives more people access to more attractive workplaces. This mainly benefits the group of women, who, due to shortcomings in public transport, have less labour market regions than men. To have a gender perspective at the planning stage for new transport infrastructure is therefore of great importance if we are to achieve the objectives of an equal transport system. Madam President, I would like As it is now, county boundaries risk creating lock-in effects due to the regional headcount, i.e. that each county has its own ticketing system. It is simply too complicated to cross county boundaries. It should be much easier. The Center Party was a driving force for the establishment of an investigation to introduce a national ticketing system for all public transport services throughout Sweden. It came in 2019, and there are a lot of wise things said that the Center Party agrees with. As regards the review and improvement of public transport, the Center Party shares the conclusions of the investigation. The starting point of the proposals is to promote greater accessibility of public transport tickets, promote innovation and be in line with future investments faced by the industry. The most obvious thing is to make it easier for travellers. As it is now, you need to have your pocket full of tickets, figuratively speaking, to travel across county boundaries. The reasonable thing is to coordinate so that one ticket is enough for the whole trip. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 11.
i-555a2b134126692e-1150	Madam President, I would like Public transport has been severely affected by Corona. The number of travellers has decreased drastically and thus also ticket revenues. It will have long-term consequences and determined work will be needed to regain passengers and increase the market share of public transport. One of the consequences of the loss of ticket revenues when passengers stay at home or take the car is that SJ will stop driving certain procured routes for Mälardalstrafik. The regions refuse to take part in the major losses caused by the pandemic despite the additions to the regional public transport authorities made by the government. We note that these have not been enough. It will affect both travellers and employees, but it also damages trust in public transport. SJ AB is, however, a limited liability company, which has to comply with the Swedish Companies Act and conduct business. You no longer have a community mission. So Sweden has decided and decided that it should be, and what happens is a natural consequence of the system that we have built up for rail traffic. But even though it has been tough for regions, businesses and travellers, it has been toughest for employees. Every day they are out on trains, trams, buses and subways and carry out their work in the midst of a pandemic in crowded spaces with a lot of people where it is impossible to keep a distance and with a high risk of infection. Employees are exposed not only to infection but also to an escalating wave of threats and violence, not least on our trains but also at our stations. Staff have been sacked and beaten. Travellers throw things at them, spray unknown substances on their face and so on. This also affects passengers trying to intervene. Yet measures have not been taken. Threats and violence can never be accepted. It is a serious problem that needs to be addressed and something we will come back to. Madam President, I would like If we are to reach the emissions target for transport by 2030, it is essential that as few people as possible take the car and that most people choose public transport where possible. There is an industry target for public transport with a market share of 36 per cent in 2030. The market share of public transport was 31 per cent in 2019, and it looked good, but during the coronapandemine, public transport travel has collapsed. In addition, some regions announce reductions in pandemic tracks. Therefore, strong action is needed to support regional public transport authorities in order to restore confidence in public transport and make more people travel again once the pandemic is over. According to Parliament's decision, the state must contribute to creating the conditions for achieving the doubling target. In order to better work on measures to achieve the target, an action plan should be developed with appropriate government measures to enable the industry's 2030 target. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is always behind all its movements. Today, I would like to endorse our Amendment No 17, which deals with travel services. Travel services shall be provided to persons who have significant difficulties in moving on their own or in travelling by public transport. Since 1998, the Act on Transport Services has been in force, which changed the basis for the granting of the service. With that law, the rules on who is entitled to travel service became considerably stricter. Statements in preliminary work have also meant that the right to travel services has gone from an operation for persons with a disability in order to provide decent living conditions to a traffic policy solution. As a consequence, only some of those with disabilities who actually need travel services are entitled to it. The National Association of Visually Injured Persons reports that this has meant, among other things, that even blind people are now denied travel service on the grounds that they can move. According to Traffic Analysis, the number of permits has decreased by 25 per cent since the Act came into force. It is clear that today we have reached a minimum level in terms of who is granted the service. However, it is not only the fact that many people who need travel services are not granted what is problematic. Those who, after all, receive the permit may not infrequently see the benefit curtailed by local restrictions on the conditions for travelling at certain times, the requirement for pre-booking, limited opportunities to bring escorts with them, the prohibition of stopping the road and restrictions on the number of work trips the person may make, and, in addition, in some places, greatly increased prices – this without the need to analyse whether it is compatible with the government's disability policy objectives and despite the fact that there is a considerable risk that the purpose of the travel service will be completely missed. This is not a society that is supposed to be a welfare society. We believe that the government should take the initiative for better legislation on special passenger transport and a new law on transport services that more clearly takes the lead in disability policy objectives and reintroduces the rights perspective in the assessment of who should be entitled to authorisation and how the transport service should be organised. As I said, there are many deficiencies in the transport service. For example, parasport practitioners lift the fact that the service is often late, which makes it more difficult to participate in activities. Another problem is that larger sports equipment is not always allowed in travel and national travel services because the possibility of including assistive devices is not regulated by law. It will thus be up to the local board or the board to decide the regulatory framework. The Left Party believes that it should be possible to rely on the travel service to function throughout the country and that people with disabilities should also have the right to practise sports. The government should ensure that the transport service must not deny the inclusion of sports equipment. Those who are granted transportation services shall also be entitled to national travel for competitions and camps. The service should be used to ensure that all residents of Sweden have the same opportunities to move around in society. It is time that it returned to being a right and based on a rights perspective instead of being seen as a traffic policy measure. ( THIRD VICE PALMANN: I would like to ask for clarification before the honourable Member leaves the floor. The honourable Member asked for the approval of reservation 17, but it is a KD reservation. Reservation 16, I understand – the honourable Member can confirm. ) The Left Party is in favour of reservation 16. Thank you very much, Madam President.
i-555a2b134126692e-1166	Madam President, I would like As the President has no doubt noted, we Christian Democrats are talking to all parties, and that is why I was not so surprised by this request from the Left Party. But I heard they changed their mind, and maybe it was the right thing to do. Madam President, I would like Good public transport is important if we are to create good conditions especially for people living in our urban areas. Accessibility, punctuality and frequency are crucial to the functioning of public transport. It is also important that public transport is developed in such a way that labour market regions grow. A well-functioning public transport system is important in order to reduce the environmental impact of the transport sector and increase work spending. It should be easy to get to work or school. Good communications are a prerequisite for our elongated country to have growth that develops prosperity and employment. While demands are being made for greater mobility between urban and rural areas, efficient communications are important for companies to be able to establish themselves in smaller towns. We would therefore like to emphasise the importance of investment in public transport. Public transport is primarily the responsibility of municipalities and regions, but the state should also help to increase the conditions for travelling collectively. With regard to covid, the government must ensure that the principals receive effective support and that we also continue to monitor the decisions we have already taken regarding, for example, the extension of professional licences. Madam President, I would like Good connections between islands and mainland areas are important. Water commuting opportunities should be strengthened so that the archipelago has better opportunities to develop. Maritime transport is an environmentally friendly and efficient means of transport that can transport many travellers in large cities. Public transport in water can relieve the traffic routes of municipalities and regions. Waterways are under-utilised and have the potential to enable future residential and labour market areas. In order to improve the conditions for boat commuting, it is important to include boat commuting in the planning of the future infrastructure. It is also important to have a ticketing system that includes public and individual operators' passenger traffic on water. We suggest that Trafikverket be commissioned to collaborate with municipalities and regions to support the expansion of public transport on water. Madam President, I would like We think cheating is a problem. In order for public transport to develop, revenues are needed. Those who plank allow others to take the cost of their journeys and thus impair the conditions for public transport. Ticket controllers play an important role in a functioning public transport system. We believe that the law is designed to benefit those who cheat. Therefore, we want to make changes that encourage justice, law and order. We believe that inspectors need legal powers to arrest, take care of and keep cheaters until the police arrive when cheaters do not show up a valid ticket. Passengers should also be required to present a ticket certificate at the time of the ticket check. In addition, we believe that traffic leaders should be able to charge a higher fee to those who choose to cheat. Madam President, I would like The service must be protected, of good quality and be as flexible as possible. Through the service, those who cannot use public transport or drive a car can still participate in society in the same way as others. For the elderly, it may be about visiting close friends or good friends, shopping for food, or visiting an exhibition or a library. We would like to stress that travel by rail should be safe. It is therefore important for the operator of the service to ensure that drivers have the correct competence in dealing with people with disabilities. Lack of competence, skills in the Swedish language and understanding of the needs of travellers creates insecurity. The need for competence also includes the tools that the traveller brings with him. We believe that structures are needed to disseminate existing research to the relevant activities. A framework is also needed to ensure the competence of operators in terms of road safety and to provide an individualised response, both to officials assessing the need for action and to those performing the action. Mr. Old President! It is important to find solutions that enable public transport to function both in urban and rural areas. Flexlines and call-driven traffic are examples of solutions that allow more people to travel collectively. Public transport is a model for alternative fuels. Nevertheless, we should continue to develop technical solutions that reduce C0-2 emissions and the environmental impact of public transport. Mr. Old President! The Christian Democrats support all their reservations and proposals, but for the benefit of time, we only ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-555a2b134126692e-1180	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating public transport issues. Let me start by saying that I support all my reservations, but I only support our reservation number 5, Increased public transport. Mr. Old President! Swedish public transport has been struggling for a year with the consequences of the coronapandemine. Public transport is needed for large sections of the population to be able to commute to work and studies on a daily basis. It has to work. At the same time, the virus has put tough restrictions on how many people can travel together without increasing the risk of infection. With a sharp fall in the number of travellers, the economy has not merged. The Liberals, together with the Center Party and the government parties, have made money to mitigate the effects and facilitate the roll of public transport even in the pandemic. A well-functioning public transport system is a prerequisite for the entire transport system in Sweden to function. It is an important piece of the puzzle that interacts with road, rail, maritime and air transport. Public transport is a prerequisite for reducing congestion on our road network around cities and major urban areas and reducing daily commuter time. Public transport is the most important factor behind today's low emissions. If we are to reach the 2030 climate target, public transport will also continue to play an important role. In order to increase the amount of public transport travel, it is important to review how we can make it easier and more efficient for people to transport from door to door. That's the time that counts for a person. The time on a bus or in the subway is only a part. If you look at the total time from door to door, a greater focus should be placed on all situations where you go from one traffic type to another. This could include more shuttle parking, better equipped stops and crossings at our ports and airports. Not least, the experience and road safety of children, the elderly and the disabled should be improved. As regards access to airports, it is gratifying that there will soon be a train connection to Landvetter Airport in connection with the railway expansion between Gothenburg and Borås. In addition to thinking through and improving the physical experience you have when travelling collectively, we in Sweden need to make it considerably easier to book and pay tickets for longer distances across county boundaries. Therefore, a national neutral platform should be put in place to allow for the reservation and payment of a door-to-door ticket, regardless of the type of traffic and the county. The platform should be technology neutral and also facilitate payment across Sweden with the same card. I believe that both a national access point for mobility services and third party sales of public transport tickets need to be introduced. Mr. Old President! We should also investigate whether electric, connected and self-driving cars should belong to public transport. Here our definition of public transport will need to be examined. It says that public transport is passenger transport of general interest, which is offered to the public on an ongoing and non-discriminatory basis. Ordering traffic is not included. If, then, we have self-driving, vacant cars available, is it a type of traffic that is offered to the public on an ongoing and non-discriminatory basis? I'd imagine it might be. Can these be included in the public transport system? Digitalisation solutions enable us to make climate-smart choices in traffic. That is why I also believe it is important that the rules on public transport facilitate the inclusion of new and efficient means of transport in future public transport. Mr. Old President! Finally, I note that the Nordic countries have different national transport systems for people with disabilities. This means that, unfortunately, there is currently no possibility of travelling across borders with the service of persons residing in border areas. I therefore believe that a right to cross-border travel services for people living in border areas should be ensured in cooperation between the Nordic countries. In the light of what I have just said, I am in favour of our reservation No 5, Increased public transport.
i-555a2b134126692e-1193	Mr. Old President! A little over a year has passed since the first cases of covid-19 appeared in Sweden. Public transport is one of the sectors that has been hit very hard. In some places the proportion of travellers has decreased, but we also see examples where it is very crowded. As a resident in Stockholm, I have been able to choose the bike instead of public transport to travel the few miles I have here to the Parliament building. Of course, it is good for my health, but many in our country do not have that possibility. The distance is too long, and the absence of a driving licence, car or other alternative is a fact. If you have a job that has to be done on the ground and requires physical presence, public transport is an essential part of the infrastructure. That's how it is every day, all year round. Many have opted out of public transport as part of taking responsibility for reducing the spread of infection. The general advice has also been to avoid travelling collectively if possible. Recently, the use of masks has also been covered by the recommendations, first in high traffic during certain times and later around the clock in many places. However, the pandemic is far from over, and it will still be a long time before the entire Swedish people will be vaccinated. By more people working at home, by more people avoiding public transport if they do not have to, and by more people choosing to transport themselves on foot, bicycle or car, more people are also taking responsibility for reducing the spread of infection. However, this also means that revenues to regional public transport authorities are being reduced. The signal has always been that the supply of lines and access to public transport must be maintained. Therefore, in addition to the general state aid paid to the regions, specific aid of 3 billion was also paid out last year and 2 billion in the current year was paid directly to public transport. It is a very important signal to cover the enormous economic losses of the current pandemic. Health care and regional tax reductions should not be put against public transport. Mr. Old President! Many of the public transport workers, like many in health care, have made very important contributions to our society over the past year. Being able to keep a distance and at the same time have a good working environment where it passes a lot of people during work sessions is demanding and challenging. Apart from the fact that we now have a pandemic and now want people to avoid public transport wherever possible, we want more people to travel collectively. We want people to travel together, because it's both smart and environmentally friendly. However, this presupposes a sense of security, and this applies to both passengers and public transport employees. The trade union Seko recently produced a report entitled Health as an input – A report on a threatening everyday life in rail traffic. It draws a rough picture of the employees' situation. In particular, the working environment of the train crew is raised. In particular, the working environment of crew members is identified as particularly vulnerable. There is evidence of daily threats, violence and sexual harassment. The other week I just met representatives of the trade union Seko to discuss this issue. They told me that in week 10 – it was only two weeks ago – there had been reports of more than 1,100 incidents in the rail traffic in my home region, i.e. in Stockholm metro and commuter trains. Tough hours with a lot of stress are part of everyday life. It is a workplace where you have irregular working hours and work on evenings and weekends. Public procurement that pushes against the lowest price principle goes beyond the working environment. In the same way that we can draw conclusions about the situation in the elderly during the pandemic, the staff's conditions in a socially important function such as public transport must be taken into account. This is an important signal to us politicians at both national and regional level. It should be safe to go to work. It can never be acceptable to be exposed to threats and violence in the workplace. This also spills over on travellers. How can travellers feel safe if staff are not safe? And by extension, it spills over on our high-level climate targets. Mr. Old President! I have noted in the debate that both representatives of the Moderates and representatives of the Swedish Democrats have highlighted Arlanda and the transport to Arlanda as an important issue. I can't help but say, Late, the sinner will wake up. It was under the Government of Bildt, 1995, that the solution was decided that A-A-Train today operates the Arlanda Line. The agreement agreed by Bildt and constructed by the government at the time contained a clause, i.e. an option, that you could step off 15 years later. This was tested here in the Riksdag. Then it was the government of Reinfeldt who put forward that it did not want to step off that agreement. We Social Democrats reserved ourselves on both these occasions. I just want to be clear about that. We therefore reserved ourselves on both occasions. It is the Moderates who are behind this whole agreement. I do not think it is entirely correct to stand here and argue that it would be in some other way. Mr. Old President! The overall transport policy objective is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and for businesses throughout the country. The conditions for choosing public transport, walking and cycling should be improved in a simple way. The transport system shall be designed in such a way as to be useful for persons with disabilities. It must, of course, be adapted to the conditions that exist in the various parts of the country. A well-adapted public transport system provides people with geographical accessibility in an energy-efficient and sustainable way in the long term. For us Social Democrats, a functioning public transport system with high capacity and high quality is crucial for the development of society and for people's everyday lives to be reconciled. In addition, increased public transport is needed to address our major challenges of reducing the climate impact of the transport sector. As Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has clearly stated in the government declarations, Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It is clear that real community building requires sustained political leadership that points the way, whether at local, national or international level. We Social Democrats really take the need for people to transport themselves throughout the country very seriously. It is also that we are prepared to deliver the solutions for future mobility. We are prepared to do so today and tomorrow. We are prepared to do this for us here and now, but also for the future generations. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to endorse the proposal made by the Committee on Transport and Tourism in the report TU8 on public transport.
i-555a2b134126692e-1212	Mr. Old President! Member Teres Lindberg says that it is important to receive compensation for the loss of revenues from public transport and regional public transport authorities. But the fact is, Teres Lindberg, that the government has chosen to compensate only a fraction of the actual losses. Only today, Swedish Public Transport, which is the body of the regional public transport authorities, sent out a letter highlighting the problem. It is estimated that it loses 8.6 billion this year and that it lost some 7 billion in fjorts. The government has then compensated about a third of this. The Swedish Democrats allocate 8 billion. Now this is a forecast, but we therefore seem to land something as soon as it is right. I think it is a bit of false marketing from the Social Democrats, who beat their chests over their compensation. I wonder: Is Mr Teres Lindberg satisfied with the Government's budget of 2 billion for 2021 to compensate the public transport authorities? Teres Lindberg stands here and paints a picture of the situation in public transport in terms of threats and violence. I did, but at least I had concrete proposals. What does Teres Lindberg intend to do to solve the problems of public transport? So far we have seen nothing but blows in the air.
i-555a2b134126692e-1217	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the questions. I think they're pretty important. Now I am not on the Finance Committee, but I think we are up to 350 – 400 billion in extra budgets. That's a huge amount of money. Very much of that money has gone as direct general appropriations to the regions to compensate for the loss of revenue and the additional costs they have incurred as a result of the pandemic. No one has said that a certain number of crowns should go to medical care and that a certain number of crowns should go to whatever it may be. It has been general funding, and they themselves have been given priority. I live in Stockholm County. I know that of the 3 billion we allocated for public transport last year, about half went to Stockholm County's public transport, i.e. to SL. It went to the Stockholm region to compensate for their costs. In total, however, incredible sums have been received to compensate for the costs incurred as a result of the pandemic. And once the financial statements were complete, the Stockholm region went with plus 5.8 billion. The year before, there had been a loss. I cannot think it reasonable for us to use taxpayers' money at the state level to do this. It's still about the taxpayers. It is yours, mine and everyone else's money that we use to compensate the regions. Should we compensate them further when they also show a big plus at the end of the year, even though we have a pandemic? Even if we have good finances, it is not that we can fertilise with money anyway just because. The economies of the regions must be dealt with in a serious way.
i-555a2b134126692e-1220	Mr. Old President! I can state very clearly that I did not criticise the government's payments of general aid. However, it is quite clear that a region in the question of whether to prioritise saving a life or having a bus line chooses the alternative of saving a life, and there goes, of course, the general state grant. I cannot answer for Stockholm, but it is certainly true that a large part of the regions have made a surplus while they still show strong deficits for their public transport. I think that is an example of a misplaced priority. However, the question was whether Teres Lindberg is satisfied with the support given to regional public transport authorities. I understand the answer as that Teres Lindberg is, and then we will have to land in it. It is not, in any case, the regional public transport authorities – they are very clear that they want full compensation. But they obviously do not get, but with the policies of the Social Democrats they get only a fraction. I am moving on to the issue of threats and violence against staff and what measures Teres Lindberg and the Social Democrats want to take to overcome this major problem in public transport. So it is so bad that the state company SJ has considered not even staying in Kumla. There are major problems in Hallsberg, and there are problems in Västerås. But it's not just there. I've been working in this business for a long time, and the problems didn't exist in the '90s when I started. They started coming so small in the 21st century, and they've just accelerated. I once again wonder, Teres Lindberg, what you intend to do to overcome these problems.
i-C8Yb2bKgiYxwuU2jvWacxx	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Patrik Jönsson, for the questions! In conclusion, however, I would like to say that I am pleased with the work carried out by the government and the cooperation parties within the framework of the additional budgets we have presented. I am not satisfied with the tailings that public transport and regional public transport authorities, or rather the regions, have had in dealing with these issues, because there have been large surpluses while shouting it for more money. I find it distressing in the current situation. Threats and violence at work are never acceptable. However, I am a little disappointed when the Swedish Democrats raise these issues, because your track record when it comes to making decisions on the working environment in this House is not very good. I think, therefore, that you should be careful not to have too high a tail. It was you who, last year, stopped the legislation that the government came forward with to strengthen the role of regional safety representatives, for example. You braked and made sure that it was voted down in this Chamber. I think, therefore, that one should be a little careful. The Government has presented a strategy on health and safety at work within the framework of labour market policy. To say that we do not take these issues seriously, I therefore find it distressing. When it comes to threats and violence in public transport, it is clear that it affects both employees and travellers. It can never be acceptable for people to be exposed to threats and violence either at work or when travelling on public transport. We must take these issues seriously. We must also put our finger on them at every opportunity. However, the fact that the Swedish Democrats are standing here saying that we do not take the issues seriously and do not have any concrete proposals when you are voting them down is, I think, almost shameful.
i-555a2b134126692e-1229	Mr. Old President! We are debating public transport, and I cannot stress enough the importance of public transport for the construction of future Sweden. Public transport creates accessibility in a sustainable way for many. Children as well as adults and the elderly can use public transport. Public transport makes our cities nicer. Less space for roads and cars creates more space for much of what man really needs to thrive – from small and large green areas to pedestrians with restaurants, cafes and other forms of cultural activities and associations and not least housing. Public transport creates the conditions for the individual's possibility of self-realisation. With accessible and attractive public transport, much larger labour markets are created. More people can thus work with what they are passionate about while they can live where they want. It is therefore important to have a well-developed public transport system, not only in our cities, which connects towns and cities and makes it possible to live outside the city, in rural areas as well. I am aware, Mr. Old President, that in some places you cannot put in a bus line. There the car is still a good alternative. However, much can be done to develop public transport in rural areas as well. It is about adapted tours and call-controlled traffic that can develop into something very positive. Mr. Old President! Public transport makes us more equal. Owning and driving a car is expensive compared to travelling collectively. The car costs purchase, maintenance and service, depreciation and fuel. According to an article I read in a newspaper, the average cost of owning a small car costs an average of $1,000 to $1,000 a month, while a large and expensive car can cost up to $1,000 a month. Nevertheless, the motorist often has access to subsidised parking spaces. A monthly ticket in public transport can run on just under a thousand and create accessibility even for those who find it difficult to make ends meet. Public transport also makes our cities safer. The number of road accidents involving public transport is small. In addition, emissions are reduced when we travel collectively, not least with more electrified public transport. Some time ago we had a debate in this House on road safety, and I highlighted the road deaths that we are not talking about as much, namely the more than 3 000 people a year who die prematurely just because of air pollution. In short, public transport saves lives. Last but not least, public transport is absolutely crucial to reducing our CO2 emissions. In 2019, the Climate Policy Council pointed out that increased transport efficiency is perhaps the most important measure for Sweden to reduce its national emissions. This means, on the one hand, that demand for transport must be limited and, on the other hand, that transport must be transferred to more efficient means of transport. More people simply have to leave the car at home and choose a bus, train or bicycle. Public transport plays an absolutely crucial role here. Mr. Old President! However, public transport faces a number of challenges. As described in the committee's report, the covid-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on public transport. Public transport has been reduced for obvious reasons, which has led to a halving of revenues. Today, we know nothing about the long-term effects of the pandemic on the human tendency to travel collectively. It is certain, however, that the public has a very important role to play in the fact that this change only becomes temporary and does not lead to permanent behavioural changes, where people choose the car over public transport. The Green Party is concerned about the deficit of public transport authorities. We think it is important to compensate the regional public transport authorities. Although many experts point out that we are unlikely to get rid of the Corona virus in the first place, the vaccine still comes with a promise of a more free existence. I've noticed that many people talk about life returning to normal and that's what you long for. But I would like to say, on behalf of both the environmental movement and the Green Party, that we can do so much more and much better than that. With smart investments and an ambitious plan for how we can develop public transport, we can both recover and increase the share of public transport in transport. We need to plan for a society after the pandemic where transport is increasingly carried out by public transport. A green Sweden with expanded public transport is freer, nicer, safer, more equal and more climate-smart. Travelling by public transport should be quick, smooth and convenient. With frequent tours and good punctuality, more people are attracted to choose public transport.
i-555a2b134126692e-1240	We environmentalists often repeat that it should be easy to do the right thing. This was the main reason why we in the government set up an investigation into the issue of introducing a national ticketing system for all public transport. A single ticket, whether digital or physical, shall be able to cover the entire journey. The same ticketing system should be able to be used throughout the country. Technology should always be used to facilitate climate-smart choices. Like I said, it's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. The Green Party has also been the driving force behind the introduction of the so-called urban environment agreements, which currently amount to SEK 1 billion per year in the current national plan. This means SEK 1 billion that goes to co-financing municipal infrastructure for, among other things, public transport, such as trams or BRT solutions, i.e. bus rapid transit, superbus systems. I am pleased to note that in my hometown of Lund, the tram line opened in December. At the same time, it is planned for the extension of trams in Uppsala. I hope that more cities are planning for a high-capacity and accessible public transport that tracks mean. Mr. Old President! Public transport is not really accessible to everyone. About one fifth of the population over 16 years of age has some kind of functional variation in movement, vision or hearing. The Agency's Traffic Analysis estimates that the physical availability of infrastructure at switching points and on vehicles as a whole has improved over time but that developments in other areas, such as information coordination, remain or even deteriorate. Ideal forces are therefore forced to cover up when authorities and the industry as a whole fail. Access to public transport today varies widely between different parts of the country and between different parts of public transport. This is not good enough. It should be safe to choose public transport, even if there is a functional variation. Public transport and its accessibility are a matter for all of us. We can all suffer from reduced mobility, loss of sight or loss of hearing. We from the Green Party want to see increased target management and follow-up for accessible public transport. Finally, I would like to say that the report also deals with the issue of travel services. As former chairman of a technical committee responsible for travel services, I have seen at close range the challenges of getting a functioning service when a procured supplier did not live up to the agreed quality. I would really like to emphasise that a more accessible public transport system on the whole could also reduce the need for transport services for many. Then the traveling service could serve those who really need it even better. This is a question of freedom, of giving everyone access to mobility. Therefore, it is very important to review the possibilities for a qualitative and good travel service. Building a society where environmentally friendly public transport is the backbone and the first choice when travelling is perhaps the most important part in reducing the transport sector's climate emissions. We from the Green Party will therefore work at national, local and regional level to promote increased public transport. High capacity, frequent tours, attractive travel times, punctuality and comfort are important elements in creating an attractive public transport. In order to create a sustainable, attractive and modern society, public transport is the backbone.
