i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-10	Mrs. Old President! In 2022, a special tax on the financial sector was introduced with 5 billion. It is then increased by an additional 1 billion in 2023. The proposal means that the risk tax will be paid by Swedish and foreign credit institutions that have liabilities over SEK 150 billion. For Swedish credit institutions, all liabilities shall be taken into account, including liabilities attributable to a branch in another country. For foreign credit institutions, the tax liability is determined in the light of the debts of the Swedish business. The tax base is the debt, and the tax rate is proposed to be 0.05% from 2022 and 0.06% from 2023. Experience in Sweden and many other countries has shown that crises in the financial system often lead to large direct and indirect costs for society. The direct costs include the cost to the State of securing financial stability in a crisis, for example by covering losses with tax revenue and contributing new capital to banks in order to reduce the risk of the crisis spreading in the economy. The indirect costs arise when the economic cycle is reversed as a result of the financial crisis. Back in time, taxpayers have had to go in with large sums of money to save banks. There were problems in 2008 and also, as I said, during the well-known crisis in the 1990s. The aftermath of a financial crisis is characterised in many cases by prolonged periods of reduced production and lower employment. Growth in the economy falls as demand for consumption and investment declines. At the same time, unemployment is increasing, public finances are deteriorating and government debt is increasing. By introducing a bank tax, the large banks are involved in covering the costs to society that a financial crisis is likely to bring. The banks will of course be involved in paying. Mrs. Old President! The Moderates are as usual for tax cuts. That was also the case when the Moderates were in government. They didn't care to train the police officers that society is now screaming for. Now they want to spend more money on bankers than on the justice system. This is about SEK 5 billion. They're not exactly small sums. It is said that the bank tax is a special tax which there is no reasonable justification for introducing. At the same time, the draft budget introduces a so-called functional tax which creates a tax gap between employees and those who receive sickness and activity benefits, as in the past a tax gap was created between employees and pensioners. It is a betrayal of people with disabilities, and it is indeed a reversed Robin Hood policy. It is reasonable for the big banks to be involved in paying. They have a central role in the Swedish economy, and if it makes a big mess, it really has major consequences. Mrs. Old President! I support the proposal in the report. I would also like to endorse the three announcements, which are as follows:
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-16	Mrs. Old President! Sometimes the said word reveals the unfinished thought. We have just listened to the Social Democrats who, here in the speaker's chair, argued for the introduction of this tax. It is a rather sad and sad thought. First, the Social Democrats stated that the banks should pay. Okay. I think a lot of people can do that. The big, rich banks will pay. But only a minute later in the same speech, the Social Democrats stated that the state should compensate the municipalities for the increased tax costs. Then you start to wonder: Who pays the tax really? If you say in the first breath that it is the banks who are to pay the tax and in the next second you say that the state must compensate the municipalities for the increased costs, you have shown that you are either lying on the first point, are not justified by what you say on the second point or have not understood the point at all. It can't be anything but one of the three ways. This is serious, because we are talking about a lot of money and important business for Sweden. Mrs. Old President! The other day, I got involved with a teacher couple. We talked about many different things, especially the school but also other political issues. Teachers are a very important part of our society. It is a professional group that educates itself for a long time, toils hard, takes care of our children and teaches our children and young knowledge that they themselves need and that we as a society need. It is always easy to appoint different professional groups as heroes. I guess the truth is, everyone who works is a hero in their own way. There are no jobs that society can do without. Sometimes you need a doctor. The garbage needs to be transported away, the office needs to be clean, you need something to eat for lunch and so on. Everyone who works is in their own way heroes. But, Madam President, I think we can all agree that teachers have a very special and important role to play. That is why it is very sad to note that the Liberals are not taking part in the debate about the tax that we so much want to introduce for, among other things, this academic group. It is about people who take student loans, train for a long time and then work very hard for mediocre wages in this context. If the logic of the Social Democrats is correct, as I believe it is, the tax will be passed on and paid by the banks' customers. Sometimes it is municipalities, usually it is mortgage holders. With this tax, a couple of teachers who have borrowed to their apartment will receive about $1,000 (U.S.) to $1,000 (U.S.) each year. However, there is not a word from the Social Democrats that they should be compensated by the state. No, they just have to pay. The municipalities may receive compensation, but the teachers will pay 4 000 – 6 000 SEK per year. As the people I was talking to observed: The other day it was boasting that we received SEK 100 in reduced tax each month. So now we get SEK 6,000 in increased tax each year on our mortgage. You don't have to be a math teacher to say it's five times more. Here we are talking about a tax increase for all people who work and work and who own their homes. It is not a good policy for Sweden, to work, to exert oneself, to educate itself, to own their home and to take responsibility for it is something positive and something that should be rewarded, not taxed and in various ways punished. Mrs. Old President! The most serious thing about this proposal, even if it is serious in itself, is not the increased tax on all mortgage holders. We certainly think that it is quite the wrong policy to increase the tax rate by SEK 4 000 - SEK 6 000 per year for those who work, because they already pay a great deal of tax. But the most serious thing about this decision is that it is counterproductive. The treasure has been named many different things over the years. It has been hot for bank taxes and credit taxes, and now it came up with, probably in some public relations conversation in the coffee room, that you should be clever and renamed as a risk tax. The problem is that the Riksbank, the Swedish National Debt Office and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, all consultation bodies, object to or disagree with the introduction of the tax, as it increases risks in the economy. The Swedish economy is therefore becoming more vulnerable after this tax is introduced. This is due to many different factors. Magdalena Andersson has already on one occasion been involved in running a bank out of Sweden, Nordea, which left Sweden with its head office. With this type of tax that specifically targets the Swedish banks, it can of course happen that more banks leave the country. However, the serious and risky thing, Madam President-in-Office, is to create incentives for economic behaviour that makes it more difficult for the state to deal with crises. If the vast majority have their mortgages in a number of banks and there is a crisis, the state, like in 2008, can go in and support these banks and stabilise the system. People's debts don't mature. There are no situations like in the United States where people are driven from their homes when they cannot pay their interest and debts. However, with this tax, the government creates an incentive to borrow money instead from many small credit institutions that are not hit by the tax. It also creates an incentive to borrow abroad. This means that households take on a currency risk, which is bad. If there is a crisis and people's mortgages are spread over hundreds or thousands of small institutions, the state's ability to stabilise the economy is much less than if it has a smaller, limited number of banks operating in a similar way. Thus, despite the fact that this has been named a risk tax, it is just the opposite that this tax makes it more difficult to deal with an economic crisis. Instead, incentives to create instability and inequalities in the economy are increasing. Therefore, of course, we agree with the Riksbank's, Riksgälden's and Finansinspektionen's criticism of this tax. Mrs. Old President! One must also say something about how the tax has been introduced and now come to Parliament's table. Magdalena Andersson, the only Minister of Finance, has made himself known for being criticised by the Council of Finance Ministers for breaking the fiscal framework. One of Magdalena Andersson's first decisions as Minister of Finance was to start taxing. Employment effects and assessments of individual taxes were stopped. It should be obscured and untransparent to the public, just as the Social Democrats want the tax system. In this case, however, some kind of record has been broken. It is not possible to understand or follow when deciding on this treasure, its size or name. It is simply incomprehensible because there has been violence on the fiscal framework and on the budgetary principles that exist. Around this, the government has received serious criticism from many different quarters, and it is, to say the least, well-deserved. Decision-making in the Swedish Parliament should be characterised by transparency, transparency and traceability for individuals, journalists and the opposition. This is not the case this time. The tax was also handed over to Parliament without the approval of the European Commission. It is in itself a bit funny when you think that we have a competition rule in Europe so that countries do not benefit their own nation's companies. Rather, it was necessary to investigate whether Sweden disadvantaged its own companies so much that it was not reasonable to implement it. It may say something about the government in many contexts. The tax was thus put on the table of Parliament without us knowing whether it was approved by the European Commission or not. Not only that: the government has had two years to put it on Parliament's table from the time it was announced that the tax would be introduced. However, it was not possible to include it in the budget proposal. This is a fluffing and a trifle with the budgetary process and the fiscal framework that simply does not belong in Sweden. Mrs. Old President! The Moderates will not take part in the decision on the bill, nor will we take part in the decision on these announcements. The last point that needs to be noted is that the Ministry of Finance, its officials and Social Democratic State Secretary, has informed the Riksdag that these announcements are impossible to comply with. It is therefore not possible to comply with these announcements, as the members of the committee are fully informed of. It is not possible to exclude Kommuninvest within the existing regulatory framework, because it would violate existing rules. It just can't be done. That's impossible. In order to sew together a majority that does not really exist and tighten through the proposal in Parliament, it has nevertheless chosen to make such an announcement, even though the government has already announced that it is contrary to the laws and regulations in force. I can't. Nevertheless, it chooses to present a decision at Parliament's table which it knows cannot be implemented in advance. The government can of course only respond to this announcement that it violates the regulations and therefore cannot be implemented, as has already been said to the Riksdag. What decision have we made here? So we have taken a decision that we know cannot be implemented in advance. Mrs. Old President! Is that how Swedish democracy should work?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-41	Mrs. Old President! The newspapers have been able to read that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and initially also the Liberals sat for six months and discussed and negotiated a budget option to be taken this autumn. What can be seen is that it managed to raise 20 billion out of over 1 000 billion, i.e. about 0.2% of the total budget. As usual, as before, it is a napkin sketch where income has not been removed from the taxation of the big banks. Did you just forget it all of a sudden, or what happened, if this treasure is so terribly hateful? I think it is quite reasonable and good that the committee has taken the initiative to compensate the municipalities if there are increased costs depending on Kommuninvest. But it is not the same thing as that one can skip the whole proposal that big banks should actually be involved in paying their share. They have received significant tax reductions as a result of the corporate tax reduction. If, by definition, we have to pass everything on to our customers, because that presupposes Niklas Wykman, I wonder: Why, then, did we not reduce the cost of mortgage customers when we had such large tax cuts? My question to Niklas Wykman is: why is separate taxation dangerous in the case of the big banks but not in the case of the introduction of a funkis tax, where disabled people suddenly have to pay more tax than employees do?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-45	Mrs. Old President! I think there were a lot of people who turned on the TV early this morning and watched the lucia trains. Some probably still have the TV on and are now sitting at home a little amazed at what Marie Granlund is wondering about. But since Marie Granlund has one line left, she has the opportunity to sort this out for the Swedish people. Marie Granlund says that the municipalities will be compensated but that the big banks will pay the tax. Can Marie Granlund find out who's paying the tax? If the big banks pay the tax, why should the municipalities be compensated? And further: If the municipalities are to be compensated – what happens to those who are the big customers in the bank, i.e. all Swedes who are mortgage holders? The Swedish mortgage stock amounts to less than SEK 4 trillion – SEK 3.5 – 3.8 trillion approximately. It will cover a tax revenue of 5 billion, and it will give an interest rate increase of about 0.0014 percent. This will be the result of a common Stockholm family 6 000 SEK a month. For the teacher family, as we talked about, it is about $1,000 a month. Of course, if there is no overwhelming, these people will not have to pay the tax. But the Social Democrats themselves say that there will be an overwhelming because they will compensate Kommuninvest, where the municipalities of the country will also pay the tax. This is probably the question of those who are looking at this a little bit over. What do Marie Granlund and the Social Democrats do for assessment? Is it full overwhelming, or is it half? If we sort it out, we will certainly be able to move forward in the debate.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-50	Mrs. Old President! We can see that there is no answer to why corporate tax was not removed from the framework decision. And why did the committee deal with it completely differently? The Moderates handled it in one way, the Christian Democrats in another way and the Swedish Democrats in a third. It doesn't feel very credible for the future. When you had six months to sit down and come up with a budget option, it was 20 billion out of over 1 000 billion, 0.02%. I think Niklas Wykman should read what the referral bodies write, and I mean all the referral bodies. For example, the Competition Authority, which has to monitor competition on the banking side, says in its reply that this can lead to increased competition in the banking sector. And that is one of the most important things for mortgage customers. We follow the development and see how it will be, and Niklas Wykman is very welcome to support proposals for more money for the municipalities in the spring bill. You yourself are involved in introducing a bank tax; you have not removed it. I still have no answer to the question as to why disabled people should pay higher taxes than an employee does. It is exactly the same as it was in the past – that an employee paid less tax than a pensioner. It takes a very long time to correct all this strangeness, but Niklas Wykman may at least be able to answer how it is supposed to be.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-54	Mrs. Old President! The Social Democrats and Marie Granlund are desperate. They know that they are doing something bad for Sweden. Marie Granlund is so desperate, Madam President, that she wants to talk about something completely different. She wants to talk about personal income taxation. There Marie Granlund can get a very clear message: The Moderates think it should pay off to work. We're not ashamed of that for a second. We think it is good that people work. With our budget, which has actually won, the group Marie Granlund is talking about SEK 850 in reduced tax every month. It is the greatest tax relief that the group has ever received: 850 kroner more! But Marie Granlund does not want to talk about the tax she stands here to introduce – the one that the hardworking middle class will pay, according to Granlund Marie's own assessment, with 4 000 – 6 000 SEK each month in tax increases. It is wasted and hidden by various names and trixing with the fiscal framework. Marie Granlund is very well aware of the very problem I have pointed out: it is difficult to remove a tax that is not introduced. That's our whole criticism. This tax is not included in this budget. There is no decision-making point in the budget and in the financial plan to introduce this tax. Marie Granlund and the Social Democrats believe that it was done two years ago – okay, but under a different name, with a different revenue forecast and with a different purpose description. That is why we believe that this is why we are committing violence to the fiscal framework. Marie Granlund is aware of this, and that is why she is asking the question. She knows that it has been cheated, trixed and manipulated with this, and then she tries to make a rhetorical trap out of it. But, Madam President, is that how democracy in Sweden should work? We are simply saying that we cannot do anything about this, because we decided on that two years ago with a different purpose and another name. Marie Granlund is guilty of the answer to teachers and all other professions when she now raises the tax by SEK 4 000 - 6 000 each year, according to her own argumentation.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-61	Mrs. Old President! When tax on banks and credit institutions is increased or introduced, it does not go unnoticed. In the end, it will be the customers who will have to pay. One of the issues in the case has been Kommuninvest, which is a credit institution that is different from others in that it is owned and guaranteed by over 290 municipalities and regions. It is run for no profit, it has a socially beneficial mission and it secures stable and cheap loans to Swedish welfare. The proposal means that Kommuninvest will be subject to the new risk tax. If Kommuninvest is not excluded from the proposal, this risks affecting rural areas, and in practice it becomes a rural tax. It is the small and medium-sized municipalities in rural areas that do not have the same opportunities to make cost-effective borrowings without municipal cooperation, and therefore it is precisely they who are affected. If municipal cooperation in the field of finance is disadvantaged by the tax, municipalities will increasingly establish new own borrowing programmes or increase borrowings in already established programmes, which would lead to increased refinancing risks in the local government sector. This could have a direct opposite effect to what the government is aiming for, as the tax could then instead increase the financial risk in the local government sector in the event of a financial crisis. The Government's aim of introducing the risk tax was not to turn it into a rural tax. Instead, as described in the bill, it wanted to access credit institutions which, in the event of a financial crisis, risk causing significant indirect costs to society. To impose this tax on Kommuninvest would mean that the tax would only directly affect the interest costs of municipalities and regions as Kommuninvest itself does not benefit from any profit. Thus, this bank tax, or rural tax, only entails a higher cost of investment in welfare. Today, Kommuninvest has operating costs of SEK 260 million to carry out its work around the country. With this proposal, the tax is estimated to be SEK 280 million for 2022 and then to increase to SEK 330 million. We believe that it is not reasonable to pass these costs on to the municipalities, where the smaller rural municipalities are likely to suffer the worst. Although this report now contains a committee initiative with a announcement that the government will come back with proposals for Kommuninvest to be exempted from the tax – which is also a endorsement of paragraph 1 of our accompanying motion, which in itself is gratifying – it points out very much that this will be impossible to implement in practice because the European Commission has established that it would constitute state aid and thus be contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In addition, Madam President, the Government's proposal may in practice mean that foreign banks operating in Sweden through a loan intermediary via a branch or subsidiary can circumvent the risk tax. The wording of the proposal therefore distorts competition vis-à-vis Swedish credit institutions subject to the risk tax. It also risks increasing the incentives for Swedish credit institutions that are covered to review their loan structures and to move their operations abroad to a larger extent and to carry out their lending activities in Sweden via a branch or subsidiary. For this reason, we believe that the bill should have been redrafted so that foreign banks operating in Sweden through a loan intermediary via a branch or subsidiary are also subject to the risk tax. If this does not happen, the government should, after the law has been introduced, investigate the extent to which foreign banks operating in Sweden in this way circumvent the risk tax and distort competition in the Swedish credit market. As regards the handling of the case, which has also been mentioned by previous speakers, the government announced in the 2020 budget bill that a tax on the financial sector would be introduced taking into account the social costs that could arise in the event of a financial crisis. In 2021 it was decided to call the new tax as bank tax instead – a tax that would also be increased from 2023. The aim was to co-finance the contribution to the defence. This year's budget proposal for 2022 does not mention the tax at all, but the estimated tax revenue is well hidden in the tables, again known as the financial sector tax. This overall has made it difficult for the opposition and, of course, for the public to follow what the budget bill actually contains, which is different from the usual practice. It is therefore questionable whether the fiscal framework has been complied with in this case. The Swedish democrats have chosen not to take part in the decision on paragraph 1 of the proposal, which concerns the introduction of the new risk tax.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-73	Mrs. Old President! Let me begin by stating that increased tax collection from the financial sector is part of the financing of the defence settlement concluded in 2019. We honour that agreement and therefore let the proposal through. However, Madam President-in-Office, there is a great one, but in terms of how the government has chosen to construct the proposal that is on the table today. The proposal is substandard, and the process for drawing up the proposal is also substandard. Mrs. Old President! The process is now over-played, but I think it should be mentioned in this context. It is not generally known, but the proposal states that the proposal [has] been notified to the Commission for legal certainty that the proposal does not constitute State aid. This assessment should be confirmed by the Commission before the proposal is implemented. In other words, the Government has put a bill on the table of Parliament without knowing whether it is legally based. This is more than flagrant. Mrs. Old President! The Centre Party has given a specific opinion in which we describe in detail our views on the proposal, and I will present our main criticism. I want to start with the most central. The Center Party wants the government to come up with proposals for a new design of the tax at the latest in connection with the Spring Bill. Both direct and indirect effects that may not have been intended need to be addressed as a matter of urgency. In brief, I would like to describe why we think it is important to have such a swift approach. Our criticism can be summed up in five points. The criticism of the proposal made by the government's own expert authorities is particularly serious, and we share their assessment. We have our expert authorities to ensure independent expertise. Both the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swedish National Debt Office and the Riksbank are clear in their criticisms. The Riksbank goes as far as to want to reject the proposal. Among the criticisms raised by the expert authorities are, for example, the risk that the tax may result in banks moving from the Swedish part or that it is reported in a less fair way, to the detriment of financial stability and supervision. The risk of negative effects from a societal perspective is recurrent in the criticism from several consultation bodies. Several point out that the proposal is not sufficiently strongly linked to the risk-taking of credit institutions. Mrs. Old President! The design of the tax creates a distorted competitive position in the financial market. The design chosen will benefit foreign banks that can escape the tax in various ways, including through so-called loan brokering. This would give foreign banks a competitive advantage over Swedish banks. It cannot be in Sweden's interest to disadvantage Swedish business and, instead, expressly favour the interests of other countries. In addition, Sweden's ability to maintain the current very high financial stability when lending moves from Sweden to other countries is also reduced. Mrs. Old President! The limit value means that customer-owned banks in Sweden, such as Sparbankerna, are largely not hit directly by the tax. This is important because the customer-owned banks have enormous importance for both individual borrowers, companies and, in the long run, the possibility of being and operating in the Swedish country. However, the design of the tax means that the whole savings bank movement meets anyway. Smaller credit institutions such as the Sparbanks are usually dependent on extensive cooperation with larger credit institutions which operate in debt above the limit value and are therefore subject to tax. This is highly likely to lead to cost increases for smaller credit institutions as a result of their cooperation with suppliers affected by the tax. This indirect effect has not been the aim of the tax and risks hitting the financial infrastructure beyond the cities. Mrs. Old President! Not all customer-owned banks are below the threshold, which in reality depends on the chosen form of association. Groups that are rather to be regarded as a collection of smaller regional companies are hit by the risk tax. This is very unfortunate and cannot have been the purpose of the tax. I am thinking here primarily of Länsförsäkringar Bank. Mrs. Old President! A fundamental problem is that the tax risks impairing the ability of municipalities to finance cooperation within the framework of Kommuninvest. This has also been noted by other speakers from here. Costs will increase. In particular, small and medium-sized municipalities will be disproportionately affected as they simply find it more difficult to finance investments on the capital market. More than two thirds of Sweden's municipalities have basically all their borrowing through Kommuninvest. It is funding that is taken in to build and upgrade schools, retirement homes, hospitals and rental housing. The risk tax will thus represent a significant cost increase for important welfare projects. A natural consequence is that fewer such projects can be implemented. This type of lending to municipally funded welfare must be regarded as falling far beyond the motive of the tax. Finally, Madam President, the tax levy from the financial sector will increase as part of the defence settlement. However, when effects occur that could never have been the purpose of the government and when the criticisms of the referral bodies are extensive, in many respects similar and central parts are not addressed, the government must act and urgently. A well-functioning financial infrastructure throughout the country, financial stability and a level playing field cannot be neglected. I would like to back up the special opinion of the Centre Party from the floor.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-88	Mrs. Old President! This was a very widespread debate at first. If the Moderates care so much about housing policy, perhaps they should consider why they want to abolish investment support. And if the Swedish Democrats had cared about the countryside, they would have made sure that capital does not concentrate on the big cities and so on. But this is about bank tax, or a new risk tax, to be introduced for credit institutions. Mrs. Old President! Today, the financial sector is dominated by a few commercial banks. Sweden's banking system is concentrated around a few closely interconnected large banks. In the event of a financial crisis, therefore, one of these banks is in danger of spreading rapidly across the entire banking system, which may pose a threat to stability. It is precisely in order to offset the risks and the costs that may affect society as a result of a possible financial crisis that a risk tax is introduced for this sector. After all, Madam President-in-Office, we have witnessed time and again how large banks, in particular, do not bear their own costs in the event of crises, but expect profits to be privatised and losses to be socialised. Why should ordinary workers pay the banks' risks and losses? These are not ordinary companies we are debating today, but the banks are strongly supported by the state and thus receive guarantees. It is simply the case that banks are at risk of causing major costs to society in the event of a financial crisis. It cannot be the role of the nurse, bus driver or industrial worker to bear these costs. And to be honest, Madam Old President, the four major banks have distributed over 300 billion over the last five years. They can afford this treasure. We have agreed to propose a series of announcements, which have been raised in previous speeches. First of all, we in the Left Party support the proposal for a risk tax. The first of the announcements that we agree on and that has come up in the debate is that the public credit institution Kommuninvest should be exempted from the law. The Institute may be affected even though it does not cause the risk to society that the law aims to counteract. That is why we have agreed that next year the government will come back with a proposal to exempt Kommuninvest and make a proposal to compensate the local and regional sector as soon as possible. The second announcement is that we believe that local banks should not be affected. A risk tax can lead to increased borrowing costs for a clientele consisting exclusively of households and the smallest companies, and we certainly do not want the tax to hit them. Therefore, we want the government to investigate the possibility of amending the law so that the risk tax does not affect them. The third announcement, Madam President-in-Office, is about the distortion of competition. Here the government should ensure that foreign banks do not benefit from the law at the expense of Swedish banking. Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank the Social Democrats, the Christian Democrats, the Green Party and, last but not least – or they are the least – the Liberals for good cooperation and for the fact that our parties are proposing announcements that make the proposal more accurate and follow the purpose. I would also like to thank the committee secretariat, who has had to deal with the matter through all the tours. Happy Lucia on you!
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-97	Mrs. Old President! I don't usually ask for a reply to Tony Haddou, because it usually results in an exposition about Marx, the perishability of world capitalism and other things, but I was still going to try to beat something out. Since the Social Democrats and Marie Granlund did not want to explain perhaps Tony Haddou, who is behind the announcements, can explain. The social democrats with partner parties fail their Minister of Finance, their Secretary of State and their Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance and the Secretary of State have been very clear that the announcement cannot be implemented. The Ministry of Finance and the Social Democratic State Secretary have repeatedly informed the committee members that it is not possible to exclude Kommuninvest from the regulatory framework. The members of the committee have not only been informed on one occasion and not only on two occasions, but on several occasions by the Socialist Government that this is impracticable. Yet the Social Democrats, together with the Left Party and other parties, stand here today and want to implement just such a rule, exactly the rule that their own government says cannot be implemented. The Ministry of Finance has carefully explained how, in repeated contacts with the European Commission, they have tried to explain that they want to exempt Kommuninvest and have been told that it is impossible. That is why it has not been proposed to Parliament. Then the same Social Democratic Party comes back to the government and says that one should certainly do so and that a parliamentary decision is now taken on it. And in a week's time, the government will of course be able to answer: ..................................................... Can you, Tony Haddou, sort this out for us a little bit?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-102	Mrs. Old President! That is why we are proposing an announcement. We're gonna make sure the government gets back to us with the investigation. We are prepared for such an investigation to take six months, possibly, until the spring bill. We are absolutely prepared to continue to review this with the government. That's what I call taking responsibility. I think Niklas Wykman is just deeply disappointed that there is a bank tax coming. He calls it sad and sad, but now it is introduced at the turn of the year. I think that's where the shoe squeezes for Niklas Wykman – you haven't been able to stop it. The thing that shocks me most is that there are lines like this when M-KD-SD couldn't handle the bank tax when they would cooperate. Isn't it better that you talk to the KD and the Swedish Democrats about why you couldn't agree on this issue instead of going to the Left Party and the Social Democrats? I would like to ask the honourable Member to speak through the President, or through the interim president in this case. ) When Niklas Wykman is standing here and wants to sort things out, I think he should explain, which he did not do at the shift earlier, why disabled people should pay more tax than employees. Why don't you figure that out first? ( SERVING AGESPRESIDENT: As I said, the debate goes through the interim president or the President. )
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-108	Mrs. Old President! The same applies to Tony Haddou as to Marie Granlund: If you change the subject, you may have shown a weakness or exposed a uncertainty about what you are actually here to talk about. But let's talk a little about those that Haddou refers to as the disabled. First of all, I would like to emphasise that very many people with different disabilities or functional variations are working. I find it distasteful to say what Tony Haddou does. There are very many people with different kinds of challenges who every day work hard, support themselves and pay taxes. In the case of people who live on sickness and activity benefits, we reduce the tax on them by SEK 850. They have never had such a strong improvement in income as with the budget that the government has decided on and that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have added to the Riksdag. It just doesn't make sense. On the subject of substance, the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and many more parties are very much in agreement. This is clear from the discussions that are taking place. What has made this very difficult, when you reason with skilled colleagues such as Hampus Hagman and other Christian Democrats, is that the government believes that this decision was made in 2019. It is very difficult to get into a time capsule and go back to 2019 and do something about it. Our objection is, as it were, that this has not been stated and made clear in a transparent manner. It is simply not possible to deal with the issue properly, given the actions of the government. But what remains, Tony Haddou, is the question: are you saying that the Secretary of State, the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance are wrong in their assessment? After all, they believe that the proposal you have is impracticable. Is the government wrong in its assessment?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-113	Mrs. Old President! I must nevertheless say that Niklas Wykman is actually wrong when he says that M, KD and SD agree. Just look at how we have gone through the whole process of this proposal. KD is for, and M is against – and they will cooperate. That's what makes it so terrible. You stand and say: we are against this. It's going so bad and so on. But you are cooperating and you have adjusted the state budget, and you do not agree on this. That's the dividing line here. Niklas Wykman says we're insecure. No, we're not uncertain about the bank tax. We're very sure about the bank tax. I mentioned earlier in my speech that the big banks have spent 300 billion over the last five years. Then I think it is very reasonable for them to stand up when there is a financial crisis. If Niklas Wykman cares so much about workers, I wonder: Why should workers, ordinary wage earners, bear these costs, bear the banks' risks? We do not want to go back to the crises we had in the past where ordinary workers are like going to bail out the banks. That's obviously what the Moderates want. You don't mind. There is not much to say about this. I think I'll have to get back to what I mentioned to Niklas Wykman in the first line shift. I think it is very much about this being a great loss to the Moderates. There will be a bank tax, quite simply. It's between 5 and 6 billion. It's much-needed money, I would say, to the welfare, to make it better around the municipalities. What Kommuninvest, which will be compensated, will pay is nowhere near this. These are sums that are not close to what the bank tax over the years will collect. We see this as a very reasonable proposal.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-117	Mrs. Old President! The proposal we are debating today requires large banks to pay a special tax to the State if the sum of the bank's debts exceeds SEK 150 billion. The tax will next year amount to 0.05% of the debt. We Christian Democrats have for several years been in favour of big banks paying more tax, for example linked to their own debts or their own risk-taking. One reason why it is reasonable for the taxation of systemically important banks to increase is that, in the event of a financial crisis, they risk causing not only direct costs to society but also indirect costs in terms of lower growth or higher unemployment. Another reason is that the financial sector is exempt from VAT. And a third reason is that the interest rebates act at least indirectly as a kind of tax relief for the banks. But, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, although it is fundamentally positive that a bank tax linked to the bank's debt is now being introduced is the form the government has developed that is really bad. The Government has designed the tax to meet not only a number of large banks but also the public credit institution Kommuninvest. Kommuninvest is a collaboration between most of Sweden's municipalities and regions, and it is a very important organisation. This is where you turn to borrow money when, for example, building retirement homes or hospitals or renovating a school. Over 200 of Sweden's municipalities allow almost all borrowing to take place via Kommuninvest. And many of them, especially the small ones, are not able to access loans of this kind on their own. The fact that the government has designed the tax in a way that makes Kommuninvest meet means that the construction or renovation of schools and retirement homes will be made more expensive. That was hardly the purpose of the tax. Mrs. Old President! The fact that Kommuninvest is affected by the tax has more negative effects. One of the most negative is that this will act as a special tax on smaller municipalities. This is because large and small municipalities have different opportunities to go directly to the financing market. Kommuninvest is much more important for small municipalities, which do not have the same opportunities to find alternative funding. The government has thus designed the tax as a tax that strikes against investments in welfare and, in particular, against welfare in smaller municipalities. This is beneath all criticism. I am therefore pleased, Madam President-in-Office, with the very sharp announcement proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Kommuninvest will be exempted from the Risk Tax Act, and the Government will now have ten months to design this exemption, and it will take effect no later than 1 January 2023. There have been several different proposals for how Kommuninvest can be exempted from the tax without this being in conflict with state aid rules. However, if there is still no exemption for Kommuninvest under the current construction, the government needs to develop new legislation with a new design of the tax. This means that the current, bad, design of the tax becomes temporary. The government will also return as soon as possible with a proposal to compensate the local and regional sectors for the increased costs they will incur in the coming year. This announcement means that Parliament approves the motion that we Christian Democrats tabled on the matter. Mrs. Old President! In addition to the announcement of Kommuninvest, the Tax Committee wishes to address two further announcements to the Government. It is partly about investigating the possibilities of amending the law so that locally-based banking activities do not meet, and partly about the government to follow the issue of the competition situation for Swedish and foreign banks. We naturally expect the government to set up such an investigation urgently and that the government will act very quickly if competition is distorted. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-129	Mrs. Old President! As chairman of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which here in Parliament has prepared the government's two proposals for continued participation in Mali, let me express the deepest respect for the efforts of Swedish soldiers and Swedish personnel – women and men sent from Sweden with the task of making contributions, together with representatives of other countries, to ensure peace, freedom and decency in a very difficult region. We all recognise the scale and danger of the task and, in the face of this, we are stopping in deep thanks. In this over the years growing group of outcasts are also all individuals like Ludwig, Anders G. and Oscar and others who have mothers and fathers, families and friends who have followed their time in Mali with anxiety and love. Thank you! Mrs. Old President! We Moderates support the government's proposal. We are therefore joining forces with the Social Democrats and other parties. It is a strength to demonstrate parliamentary breadth in the field of defence and security policy. Sometimes there is a strong tone in Swedish debate. Different parties are rejected because they cannot, or are not supposed to, cope with a broader consensus. As a representative of the Moderates, I am proud to be part of a coalition party here in Parliament. The Swedish Armed Forces' international efforts must always be made in relation to national needs. It becomes particularly important at a time when Sweden will build up the ability at home. In the current situation, it is also of great importance that the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to support society's crisis preparedness does not deteriorate. The mullet of Russian troop contractions at Ukraine's border can be heard in the rest of Europe. We must see the world as it is. Swedish engagement in Mali must be made in relation to security policy cooperation with the EU and, in particular, with France. It is solidarity, not neutrality, that applies. It becomes even more important for Sweden to consider in a time of increased uncertainty. Mrs. Old President! A key Swedish interest in this context is about our ability to gather a broad European commitment to the security policy threats that affect us in the Baltic Sea region as well as in the Arctic. Then it is also crucial that we are able to show a strong Swedish commitment to what is happening in the Mediterranean and south of it, whose development also has a long-term bearing on our Sweden. We expect other countries to assist us in the event of a crisis or war, and then we must also be able to assist our friends and allies in the event of a crisis or war for them or in their vicinity. We must see Sweden's commitment to the world as a whole. Our country is participating today through several actions in Mali, both within the framework of the UN stabilisation operation Minusma and within the EU training operation EUTM. But we are also one of the biggest donors. Here there is reason for the government to describe how it views the Swedish strategy. What is to be achieved? What happened in Mali is a coup and then a coup within the coup. African neighbours gathered within the Ecowas organisation want to see a roadmap towards civilian governance preceded by general elections in Mali early in 2022. Just in these hours, a timetable has been set by Ecowas that elections must be held by 27 February next year, otherwise there will be consequences. How does the Swedish Government view this? And how does the government view the support that the coup d'état and the junta can be perceived to receive through international presence and whether it can continue beyond the planned elections on 27 February? First of all, Sweden must work together and be able to influence the country that has the leading responsibility for an operation, in order to create predictability and long-termness in how the operation is designed. In Mali, France is a key player. Previously on Afghanistan, it was the United States. The Moderates have called for an exit strategy for Swedish participation in the UN operation Minusma. A clear statement of upcoming closures in close dialogue with stakeholders ensures continued continuity of the operation where other countries can take on after a nearly ten-year Swedish commitment. This will be done by mid-2024. In addition, the Swedish officer Dennis Gyllensporre has been commander of the Minus Main movement for three years. It is unique that Sweden has had such a centrally placed person in an international mission for such a long time. Secondly, Sweden needs to set measurable targets and a clear framework for the efforts we participate in, and these must be continuously monitored. In the case of Mali, it is important to ensure that the training of security forces produces long-term results. We also need to be clear that Sweden will not cooperate with a junta that uses Russian mercenaries. There is evidence that the military junta has plans to hire the Russian Wagner group with close ties to the Kremlin. The Wagner Group and its mercenaries have been involved in a long series of the worst conflicts in recent years. It has been involved in eastern Ukraine, has cooperated with the Asad regime in Syria and has fought in Libya. If the Malian military junta were to hire the Wagner Group to train its own security forces and combat terrorists, this would have consequences for Swedish military contributions. Where the Wagner group is located, Sweden cannot be. Thirdly, the efforts need to strengthen the Swedish defence's operational capabilities more clearly. In a deteriorating security situation, especially in the immediate vicinity of Sweden, this is central. It is not just a matter of getting security-policy plus points from strategic partners and improving the ability to interoperability and collaboration, but we also need to look more closely at what resources Sweden contributes with. For example, air combat officers should not train Malian security forces in infantry combat, as is currently the case in the EU training operation EUTM. Mrs. Old President! There are a wide range of interests to be balanced in international efforts. It is primarily about creating the best conditions for solving the task but also about the purpose of the operation to be consistent with Swedish interests and values, that the operation should clearly strengthen the operational capability of the national defence and that it can provide added value for Swedish defence policy collaborations with other countries. In previous debates on Mali, moderate attention has been paid to the difficult challenges facing the region in question, with major humanitarian consequences. The unstable situation and threats from terrorist groups also affect Sweden's and the EU's security. The absence of peace leads to refugee flows at a time of major migration challenges. Instability, violence, terror, uncontrolled flows of refugees – all these are realities. However, this does not prevent the rest of us from actually making demands on the government to have a clear plan for what they want to achieve and what should be pursued. The opportunity to explain this is given to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist in a moment when it is time for his speech. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal and Moderates' reservations No 6 in both reports.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-143	Mrs. Old President! Sweden's contribution to the stabilisation efforts in Mali has been valuable, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all personnel who are or have been part of this. I also want to wish them and their families a nice lucia. We see, however, that, unfortunately, developments in Mali have not been positive over the years. On the contrary, we are seeing a worrying development in which the country is moving from crisis to crisis, despite the fact that there has been a large international military presence. It is therefore high time to reflect on Sweden's future in the effort and whether it is reasonable to risk the lives of Swedish soldiers where there is apparently little progress. To this must also be added the great needs that we have at national level, especially at a time when national defence capabilities are under construction and tensions are greatly increasing in Europe. The Russian build-up of forces that we are now seeing around Ukraine's borders clearly shows that we need to focus on national defence capabilities. From the Swedish Armed Forces, the message is also clear about the impact of international efforts on the national construction of defence capabilities. In the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the army, you can read: The Army Director also believes that the current withdrawal of the army to carry out international efforts is not sustainable as it undermines the units and affects the ability to build capabilities, have good preparedness, carry out operations and create growth at national level. We have also been able to read in the Swedish Armed Forces' budget documentation for several years how this negatively affects the ability to build up the national defence. We believe that this must be taken into account when deciding on international action. It is neither credible nor sustainable in the long term to send soldiers and officers to international efforts, while there is widespread need for national defence capabilities. It is therefore important that we review each operation carefully and then balance the impact of the operation and how it can strengthen the operational capacity of the national defence. Mrs. Old President! The operation in Mali is also one of the most dangerous operations in which Sweden participates. There are frequent combats in the country, and the Swedish soldiers have been shot at on several occasions. In addition, the Malian state is very fragile, which makes it even more difficult for the Swedes who operate in the country. The intervention in Mali, which has been challenging from the outset, has unfortunately become more complex after the development that has taken place in the country since Sweden decided to participate. And there is no improvement in sight. This applies not only to the efforts against terrorist activity in the country, but also to the government and state that Sweden has on the ground to support. Since the military coup in August 2020, another coup within the ruling military junta has been carried out. Moreover, the coup, which was carried out in August, apparently had broad support in the country. The turnout in the last elections was probably as low as 10 – 15 percent, and the current president's rule had then, according to many, come to an end. Internationally, the two coups have been condemned, and it is unfortunately difficult at present to see that the country is moving towards democratic development. Sweden's former ambassador in Mali, Diana Janse, has also stated that Sweden needs an exit strategy for the country. And that is something that needs to be worked out. The risks of staying for too long must not be underestimated, and every day that goes with Swedish troops in the country means both a delay in national defence building and the risk of Swedish soldiers' lives. Only a week ago, seven Togolese soldiers belonging to UN peacekeeping forces were killed in Mali. Mrs. Old President! During the year, data have come to light on the fact that the Malian government is holding talks with the Russian military group Wagner. The group of Russian mercenaries has been accused on several occasions of serious violations of international law. The aim is for the group to be able to operate in Mali as it has done in several other states. This is a very worrying development. The fact that Swedish armed forces would operate side by side with Russian mercenaries is unthinkable. This should, of course, lead to the immediate withdrawal of the force made available. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats believe that if Mali's leadership were to enter into such cooperation with mercenaries, this is unacceptable and must immediately lead to the Swedish armed forces leaving Mali. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 1 in both reports.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-159	Mrs. Old President! Mali has a long history of conflicts and contradictions between different groups, between different rulers, with colonial powers and between northern Mali and Bamako government. What we have seen happen over the last decade has its roots in the 2012 Tuareg uprising, weapons after Gaddafi and Libya, and jihadists who joined the Tuaregs. The 2012 military coup met with strong sanctions from Ecowas, and international strong protests led to the military being replaced by a transitional government and elections could be held to the National Assembly and a president. But the ceasefire agreement was broken, and at the invitation of the transitional government, French troops came in to stop the jihadists. In December 2012, the UN Security Council decided to issue a Chapter 7 mandate to an African-led international support operation in Mali. Before that, in October, the Security Council had called on all of us in the international community to support Mali's defence and security forces with training and advice. On 31 January 2013, Sweden supported the newly established EUTM Mali operation and has continued to do so since then. In April 2013, the foundation was created for Minusma, and Sweden received a request to participate in the military operation in February 2014. It was the first time in a long time with a UN-led operation. The Center Party has always been clear that Sweden will also contribute with military efforts to assist in the international work for peace, security and development. We shall also do so as part of the support for UN peace-building efforts and not only in EU-led or NATO-led operations. We had an alliance government back then. If the Swedish Armed Forces considered that we could contribute with the resources requested, it was self-evident for the Center Party that we should contribute. The answer from this House in June 2014 was a yes to Swedish participation. Since then, it has been yes from us and from this House quite united for the UN mandate. Sweden's envoys have made a difference to the people of Mali and to the mission as a whole, as well as to the development of the UN peace building. Like my colleagues, I would also like to thank all Swedish women and men who, together with their families and relatives, have made it possible for our efforts to operate and who have been there from time to time. You have done and you are making a difference in one of the most dangerous missions – in Mali. The Center Party is now ready to vote in favour of a Swedish armed force being made available in Minusma until 31 December 2022. But, Madam President, this time we make it conditional, as our red line goes by Wagner's mercenaries. If the Malian transitional government completes and hires this notorious group of mercenaries, Sweden shall promptly leave the Minus Main movement. The committee calls for the government to act proactively and inform the committee and the Riksdag without delay. I expect the signal to be clear in the Government Office. If the Wagner Group is contracted, the basis for parliamentary support will change, not just for the Center Party. The government should be clear about this also vis-à-vis the UN in view of the renegotiation of Minusma's mandate in 2022. Mrs. Old President! In the Center Party, we are clear that elections must be held in Mali. There was a clear demand and promise for elections in February 2022, now reiterated by Ecowas. However, the military coups of 2020 and 2021 must be brought to an end if peace and development are to be achieved. We all see what is happening, namely that preparations have not been made to achieve the plan of free, democratic elections in a reasonable manner. We in the Center Party are clear that there are no conditions for Sweden to support a sustainable solution to the crisis in Mali if planning is not resumed and free elections are not held in 2022. Sweden should not support the military coup d'état in maintaining power. They may have been replaced in another military coup, but that is not the way Mali's problems are solved. Sweden's military operation in Minusma will end if elections are not held in 2022, and then we see it before us no later than mid-2023. That should be a starting point for planning. Mrs. Old President! When it comes to the composite report No 2 by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and the Swedish participation in Task Force Takuba in Mali, the same foundations apply by the Center Party: the Democratic elections and the Wagnergrupen are a red line for us here too. It is important that Sweden is clear – both against the coalition and those we cooperate with, like France, and against the others – that there is a discussion where demands are made. The support is not given long-term, and it is important that it is not a surprise to anyone. Sweden needs to develop a clear exit strategy and a better conversion capacity in order for it not to take so long to phase out if necessary. Nor should it lead to an emergency resolution such as the one we saw in Afghanistan. Having said that, Madam President, I expect the Minister for Defence to be clear about the red lines which the committee itself basically states. I look forward to listening to the answer from the Secretary of Defense in that part. I am in favour of reservation 2 in paragraph 1 of both reports.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-169	Madam President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Members and all those who are watching at home! Happy lucia for you – above all and especially for all of you veterans in various activities that have been involved in contributing to the development and peace of the world! Today we are debating Sweden's military efforts in Mali. This applies partly to the UN operation called Minusma, which Sweden has now been part of for seven years, and partly to the French-led operation called Task Force Takuba. In this debate, therefore, it is important to keep two balls in the air at the same time. The Left Party says yes to the UN operation but no to the French-led operation Takuba. There are therefore two different types of actions that are different in nature. I am in favour of reservation 3 in the report UFöU2 that Sweden should not participate in the French-led operation Takuba. Recently, the fifteenth Swedish group took over the baton in Sweden in the UN's operation in Mali. I wish you all every success in your work over the next six months! There are now a very large number of Swedish soldiers who have participated in the various efforts in Mali, and we have before us a proposal to send additional – new – Swedish soldiers to one of the world's most dangerous areas to do a job that we know is very risky. It is of course appropriate to express a great deal of thanks to all those who have been part of the Swedish military efforts or who are now starting their mission there. You who participate do so with great sacrifices: It is long absence from family and friends, and you are in a job that involves great risks. Family members are still at home waiting, certainly with a great feeling of concern. Even the relatives are worthy of our great gratitude and our support for making everyday life go together and work at home in the meantime. Mrs. Old President! The proposal put forward by the government contains the background to Sweden's efforts in Mali. We get a description of the security situation and developments in the country. It can be read that Mali is one of the world's poorest countries, where for a long time there has been armed conflict and major problems with drug and arms trafficking, kidnappings and terrorism. The security situation in Mali has been commuting back and forth in recent years; peace agreements have been signed but also broken, and several coups d'états have taken place with the uncertainty involved. The Left Party also agrees with the criticism that has been made here in the debate on the involvement of the Wagner Group in the country. Conflicts are based, among other things, on major climate changes in the form of reduced rainfall and high droughts, which have forced the population to leave their homes and increase poverty and vulnerability. Here we see how important it is to work against climate change and natural disasters as part of security policy work, because we see that this is a basis for war and conflict in the world. Combating climate change is therefore working towards a more peaceful world. In contrast, we live in one of the world's most peaceful and richest countries. It is therefore self-evident that Sweden will participate in international efforts to promote peace, democracy and development in the world. We do so in different ways, especially with aid, but also by sending out many experts around the world who help build democratic societies. However, we also contribute with the military to preserve security and protect the civilian population. It is always important that we see the root causes of war and conflict and that we as a country are actively involved in working internationally to prevent conflicts from arising. Sweden's various forms of aid work are, of course, preventive work to avoid war and suffering for the civilian population. Mrs. Old President! I am very pleased that the government in its proposals on Mali is clear and addresses Sweden's efforts to promote women's participation on the basis of UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. I am pleased that this has such a great focus in our international work; that Sweden has a feminist foreign policy is important to us in the Left Party, as well as that we should be an international example in the work on gender equality. It should also be mentioned that Sweden is and will be a major donor to Mali and that we participate with great humanitarian support to the many millions of people who live in difficult conditions. We in Sweden will do what we can to support the work for peace, democracy and development in Mali and neighbouring countries so that the people of Mali can live in freedom, peace and democracy in the future and together make democratic decisions about their own country's future. Mrs. Old President! For the Left Party, it is incredibly important that Sweden's military efforts take place under the leadership of the UN and with clear support in international law rather than being led by individual countries or by NATO. Respect for international law must always be included in the groundwork, and the fact that there is an invitation from the Malian government in this case is a prerequisite for us in the Left Party to accept Sweden's military participation. Although we are a great supporter of the UN's work for peace and development, it must also be recognised that the UN has shortcomings and shortcomings. The UN must be democratised and be more equal. Sweden will have a prominent role in all the different parts of the UN's work for development and improvement. It is our joint responsibility as a peaceful, democratic and rich country. The Left Party's wish is that it should be the UN that has the capacity and ability to carry out all international efforts itself. We find it problematic that the outside world is sending several types of international forces to a war-torn country. It is not easy for the population to distinguish between the different international efforts and their objectives and objectives. That is why, Madam President, the Left Party is opposed to Sweden's participation in the French-led task Task Force Takuba. The Left Party believes that it is inappropriate for military action to be conducted by individual countries in this way. The Task Force Takuba is also a much more offensive effort than the more peacekeeping efforts led by the UN. Takuba is focused on the fight against armed terrorist groups and is an operation that involves much greater risks for the Swedish soldiers who are sent out. All military operations are dangerous, but this is a much more dangerous effort than the efforts that Sweden usually makes. Sweden entered this operation while at the same time being pulled down on personnel for the UN operation Minusma. This was a shift which we in the Left Party thought was bad and which we protested against. We would have preferred to remain firmly in the UN operation. We in Sweden promised France that we would participate in Task Force Takuba for a year, so this decision is only a few months away. The Left Party is very positive that the government has not allowed itself to be lured into staying in Takuba longer than was intended. Mrs. Old President! In the bill on Sweden's participation in the UN operation Minusma, the government opens the door to the closure of the operation. We in the Left Party are not entirely in favour of this. We are aware that the Swedish Armed Forces have limited resources and are facing major tasks with expansions at home, which will take time and effort. We know that international efforts require a lot of resources, a lot of people and a lot of time, and we believe that Sweden should participate in international efforts in the long term. At the same time, there is a further limit to how long Sweden can participate in one and the same effort. A possible phasing out of Sweden's contribution to the UN operation Minusma at mid-2024, as described by the government in its proposal, would mean that Sweden has been in place for ten years. If this happens, we in the Left Party believe that Sweden should prepare to be part of a new international effort under UN leadership so that Sweden is still involved in the important work that the UN is doing around the world. With this, I would like to wish the President-in-Office and everyone who has watched and listened to a Merry Christmas.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-188	Mrs. Old President! When you come a little later in the debate, you do not have to draw the facts – it has already been put on the table. But a short recapitulation may still be in order. The government proposes that the UN stabilisation operation in Mali, Minusma, be able to continue until 31 December 2022, provided that a valid mandate remains in place as decided by the UN Security Council. The Government proposes in its proposal that the operation be phased out until mid-2024. The seriously deteriorating security situation in the country and the military junta's lack of interest in democratic processes together with serious indications of hiring Russian paramilitary forces – the Wagner Group – means that we in the Liberals propose that the Swedish operation be phased out more quickly, no later than mid-2023. We therefore ask that our reservation 5 and reservation 4 be accepted in UFöU2. Mrs. Old President! Let me elaborate on our reasoning. Liberals are fundamentally in favour of military foreign operations both within the framework of the UN and within the framework of other operations. As a democratic and rich country, Sweden should take international responsibility for peace, freedom and democracy. But despite the long and extensive presence of foreign troops, developments in Mali are heading in the wrong direction. The current regime, or the military junta, has shown no sign whatsoever of wanting to conduct democratic elections. Safety is under constant deterioration. Mrs. Old President! In today's Svenska Dagbladet, Diana Janse, former Swedish ambassador in Mali, writes about the issue of Sweden's plan B. She draws parallels to Afghanistan – a country in which we have also invested time, resources and military personnel, but in which a deteriorating security situation and a deteriorating political situation have put much of the efforts that characterized the Swedish effort under strong pressure. How do we ensure that the same does not happen in Mali? It is a legitimate question, and I hope that Minister Hultqvist will shed light on that issue later on here today. There are three parts here: Minusma, Task Force Takuba and EUTM. I would like to stay for a moment at the EU military training and advice mission EUTM. Swedish participation in EUTM amounts to a maximum of 15 people. However, the EUTM mission is an effort aimed directly at supporting and training the Malian Armed Forces. Given the strong objections that exist about the Malian action and given that this is the part that risks coming into contact when the Wagner Group may be engaged, my question is: Will Sweden interrupt this part of the Commission, and if so, when? Mrs. Old President! It should also be mentioned that there are structural problems with this type of UN intervention in Mali. We need to bear this in mind in view of future efforts. This effort consists of poorly equipped soldiers from countries such as Bangladesh, Senegal and Togo, whose governments see participation in the operation as the income of a very poor state treasury. The lives of individual soldiers are put in danger, and this affects the safety of the entire operation. I would also like to say a few words about the Wagner Group, which has been mentioned a number of times from this chair. I must point out, in a rather self-glorifying political spirit, that a number of years ago I wrote an individual motion concerning the Wagner Group and how international institutions should be able to deal with this type of private army, as we see more and more clearly. The Wagner Group has operated in a number of African countries: Madagascar, Sudan, Mozambique, Benin, Chad, Libya and the Central African Republic. Less well-calculated regimes can hire ex-Pennaz operators to suppress rebellion, grab natural resources or put terror in the local population. Wagner operators do not ask questions about human rights or legitimacy in democratisation processes. It is clear that the international community is not able today to deal with this type of conflict actor. We need to get better at that. The EU and the UN must ensure that the cost of adopting an offer of support from the Wagner Group is so high that the offer from the EU or the UN is more attractive than the support offered by the Kremlin via the Wagner Group. Let us not have any blind spots: it is not the case that the Wagner Group operates in full isolation or with its own identity. This is part of the Kremlin, which sees opportunities for geopolitical influence in Africa. Mrs. Old President! I would like to conclude by saying something about the thousands of Swedes who have served under Minusma, Task Force Takuba or EUTM. It is one of the most dangerous missions that Sweden has been active in. The courage and sense of responsibility to be involved in fighting for values that are greater than yourself, with life as an effort, is worth paying attention in every way. The report states in perhaps a little dry-handedly Swedish: a tragic experience shows that the loss of human life in the context of peace-building missions and crisis management operations cannot be ruled out. ..................................................... For each person there are children, husband, wife, parents and friends waiting for it to come home. They worry if there is someone who doesn't connect to Skype at the appointed time or doesn't respond to text messages when it should. We lend these people, these people, to Sweden to defend human rights and democratic development with arms in hand. It's a big commitment. The question is whether we, who are in this Chamber, understand the extent of that commitment, Madam President-in-Office.
i-AYTNXqR7ZTquWUL88CMGEE	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the joint committee's proposal to be approved on the one hand with regard to UFöU1 Swedish participation in the stabilisation effort of the Förnta nations in Mali and on the other with regard to UFöU2 Continued Swedish participation in military operations to strengthen security in Mali. At the same time, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Christian Democrats in the Committee's two reports. The Christian Democrats share the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment that Sweden's military efforts in Mali have made and made a difference. This applies both to Minusma and Task Force Takuba. We also share the defence's view that participation leads to increased capacity at home through the experience acquired by military managers, for example, and then brings home. On site, Swedish personnel contribute to the protection of the civilian population, increased security and military resistance to Islamic terrorist organisations. This work is worthy of respect and appreciation. I would therefore like, on behalf of my party, to express my warm thanks to all the staff who are at risk of their own safety in order to protect severely vulnerable people in another part of the world. Mrs. Old President! The military coups carried out in Mali – in August 2020 and in May 2021 – have made the Swedish operation's already complicated mission even more complicated. At the same time, there is daily collaboration with other countries' units in both Minusma and Takuba. This is urgent, and it is necessary. The Sahel region is today the area in the world where violent Islamism is growing fastest. Terrorist groups such as IS, Al-Qaida and Boko Haram are all active in the region and claim political power. In addition to Mali itself, there are battles in neighbouring countries, such as Niger, Burkina Faso, Nigeria, Chad and Cameroon. In many cases, this is a combination of ethnic and religious conflicts with severe and widespread suffering for the civilian population. In other words, there is every reason to take the situation seriously. If Europe steps down its commitment, the security situation will deteriorate further. Mrs. Old President! Already in 2012, the UN Security Council stated that the situation in Mali is a threat to international peace and security. In other words, it is essential to strengthen both the military presence and extensive aid and development cooperation in the region. Both of these components are central and needed. The EU and its Member States must do more, even if it takes time to achieve results. Countries such as Germany, Spain and Italy have today developed security policies for Africa. Not infrequently, security and military presence are a prerequisite for effective aid, and this also applies in Mali. In addition, any ambiguities with regard to Sweden's attitude towards the infamous Wagner Group must be removed. Several of the speakers have spoken earlier in the debate on this. The interaction between the Malian governing regime and the Russian private army, consisting of mercenaries and serious criminals, is unacceptable in all respects. If the Wagner group comes in, the Swedish effort will be released. There are no intermediate positions. Mrs. Old President! The Christian Democrats always strive for a broad parliamentary consensus when it comes to decisions on Sweden's international efforts. We therefore support the Government's proposal to extend the Swedish efforts in Mali in 2022, and then gradually de-escalate the efforts. At the same time, we would like to emphasise that it is essential to keep the door open for a possible extension should the security situation require it. One of the lessons of the failed evacuation from Afghanistan is that exit planning is exploited by extremists and terrorist groups. Therefore, a Swedish phase-out of troops contributions in Mali must take place in an orderly manner after careful planning, taking into account all personnel and in close dialogue with other participating countries. Finally, when the existence of fellow humans is shattered, when human dignity is crushed, indifference must not be our answer. As Christian Democrats, we are very proud of Sweden's international efforts. At the same time, this type of decision always comes under special responsibility in the Riksdag. But just as important as it is to combat terrorism in our country and in our part of the world, it is equally important to conduct the fight in countries far away. Any safe harbour for Islamism and jihadism, wherever it is offered, is by extension a threat to our democracy and our security. Through the efforts in Mali, Sweden is part of a broad and very urgent international effort — with the clear goal of more people being able to live in security and peace.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-220	Mrs. Old President! Mali is a hard-tested country, where we have now seen that developments are going backwards rather than forwards in many ways. This is also why the international community and Sweden have chosen to engage there. In addition to the military efforts we are debating today, we in Sweden also have a bilateral aid strategy that involves comprehensive humanitarian aid and development cooperation. What we do is to be involved in creating the conditions for long-term humanitarian work. It must be in place to secure people's lives but also to help build a democratic society with functioning institutions. Mali must continue its path towards a peaceful, functioning democracy. That is why we are also there with efforts for precisely that – strengthening democracy and gender equality, greater respect for human rights, freedom from violence, limited climate impact and adaptation to the climate change that is already very obvious. The support that Sweden provides through Sida goes to several and broad initiatives. It is about the feminist foreign and development policy for women's and girls' rights and protection from violence. It is about efforts against hunger, about food assistance, about water and sanitation and about work for both protection and education. Several UN agencies are in place, and through the International Committee of the Red Cross and other international organisations, Swedish politics is made a reality. In addition, experts are made available through the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. Cooperation and cooperation are important key words for the success of the UN as well as of states and civil society. In a situation such as that in Mali, this commitment needs to be supported by military efforts, and I am proud of the work that Swedish women and men travel out and contribute. In a dangerous and uncertain situation, they want to contribute to a more peaceful and better world for a hard-pressed population. For that I am also grateful, like all the people who are supported and helped by Swedes in the world. An extraordinary thank you to those of you who wish to contribute to a military mission, with danger to your lives and with the anxiety and increased efforts that it means for those at home. Thank you very much. What you're doing is priceless. Peace and development are so incredibly far away for those people who have to worry every day about armed groups killing indiscriminately, for children who have no school to go to, for completely broken infrastructure with undefeated roads and too few prospects in the wake of climate change. That's where you give hope. Mrs. Old President! Sweden's participation in military operations is part of increased multilateral cooperation and a firm belief in a rule-based world order based on the UN Charter. The overall foreign and security policy purpose of Sweden's participation in international military operations is to contribute with peace and security, to prevent conflicts and to create the conditions for building sustainable peace and combating poverty. Participation is an integral part of the solidarity policy on security, and it is important that there is a basis of international law for our efforts. It does this. If it were to stop, of course, we would have to withdraw our military involvement. The objective of the operation is clear: we shall contribute to improving security in Mali and to restoring the Malian Government's control of its territory, now and in the democratic transition that must take place, because that is the only way that sustainable political solutions can be put in place. No actor on its own can create long-term sustainable peace. Nor can individual international institutions themselves stand for all the elements that need to be put in place in order to put an end to the human suffering that is constantly present in Mali. Mali itself is important, but it is also in favour of a commitment to the whole region that this must be done. Resisting an increasingly poor development is an important contribution also in a broader perspective and in a context that is becoming increasingly uncertain. But all this risks being overturned if the Malian Government now chooses to cooperate with the Wagner Group. It is therefore important that we, like the European Union and others, clearly underline this completely unacceptable in such a contract. That must be quite clear. I hope it is taken seriously, because Mali and Mali's people need our continued commitment. They need peace and development. Everyone needs to do their part here, and we all need to work together for such a development. I therefore call for the proposals contained in both the reports on the table for this debate to be approved.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-232	Mrs. Old President! Janine Alm Ericson from the Green Party talks about the long-term sustainable work and the broad commitment. As also mentioned in the bill, the mandate is based on promoting human rights and supporting humanitarian activities and the political transition process. My question to the Green Party is how many military coups Mali can stand. There has been a coup, and then there has been a coup within the coup. Where are the Environmental Party's limits in this? One can say that one should promote sustainable work and have a functioning democracy, but the events on the ground still speak clearly. In addition, Janine Alm Ericson refers to the fairly large amount of aid. For the years 2021-2025, the strategy for Swedish development cooperation with Mali is that 2 billion of tax revenue will go to Mali, precisely to promote democracy and human rights. Where is the limit when you have to say stop? Mrs. Old President! In addition, Swedish aid is divided in such a way that about a third goes to humanitarian work and about two thirds goes to what is called long-term development cooperation. What happened at the last coup in the coup was that part of the aid payments were cancelled. It happened on 2 June. On July 12, Sida announced that they will resume. My question is therefore: when it comes to this broad approach, the sustainable work for a functioning democracy, where is the limit for the Green Party? How many military coups do you put up with in Mali?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-238	Mrs. Old President! I thank Mr Wallmark for the question. I guess it's just that you can handle zero military hives. It is, of course, a totally unacceptable practice by people who want to take power in a country. We must be incredibly clear that it is through democratic elections and democratic processes and through inclusion and all the other elements that characterise democracy. It also includes respect for freedom of expression and the free right of journalists to work and so on – the role of civil society, not least. The Swedish aid commitment is not about providing cash to a military junta to enable it to continue its operations. It's all about completely different things. After all, we have no cooperation that directly supports the Malian military junta in what it is doing now. However, we are trying to improve as much as possible for a population that is incredibly vulnerable, that is starving and has very few prospects and whose only hope is the international community, where we are involved. One must distinguish between this. If we wanted to support a military junta, it would have been exceptionally unacceptable in any situation. But to support a population in need of peace and development, we need to remain strongly committed to as long as the situation goes in the wrong direction.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-242	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson from the Green Party says you can handle zero military coups. The truth is that we are at least on the second military coup in the near future in Mali. What has now happened is that the African cooperation organisation Ecowas announced at its meeting yesterday that it assumes that elections will be held on 27 February. Otherwise, the African neighbours say, it will have economic consequences. How does the Green Party view it? Where does the Swedish line go? While the African neighbours say that if elections are not held on 27 February, it has consequences, the Green Party says that Sweden should do nothing else. We will continue to pay out the aid. Then you have to give Sweden the right: In connection with the last coup we cancelled the payments, and then resume them a few weeks later, on 12 July. But even during the time when some of the payments were cancelled, we were very careful that it should not affect civil society organisations or multilateral organisations. Why, then, did we cancel payments for a number of weeks? Well, of course to mark. Then my question is: where is the mark for the Green Party? If you say zero hives and we're into the second coup, when's the big deal? The whole point is that we should work towards long-term sustainability. It should work, and it should be a functioning democracy. But if everything on the ground is inferred, when will it have consequences?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-247	Madam President, I would like All the time when there is commitment, it must be incredibly clear that it is heading in the right direction. The process of democracy and the transition that Mali is in must be followed absolutely. We have no ambition but to follow the recommendations of Ecowas. We have been clear about this all along in government, and we will also be outside. But who should have financial consequences? For whom should they be deployed? Of course it is for those who do not fulfil the transit process. The Malian people should not suffer for either a military regime or other corrupt regimes, as we know, are everywhere. Now I know that the Moderates want to cut back on aid and reduce our international commitment. It's incredibly sad and just to be sorry. The world doesn't get any better because we're retreating. Sometimes things don't go in the right direction. But being there, having a long-term commitment and supporting development means that there will also be opportunities for change later on. To just say that things are going bad and then turn around and go does not think we are a good strategy to get a better world. We have major challenges on which we must act together. With regard to the climate crisis, with regard to the biodiversity crisis and with regard to Corona, no country can do this alone. We must all help each other there. The military engagement we have in Mali is also for us to be able to support the other parts. But it is also important, as I have said before, that we see that the democratic process is moving forward and not backward.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-252	Madam President, I would like I asked for a reply because the proposal we are discussing was a proposal from a government that included the Green Party and supported the government's proposals and formulations. Here is the reason to ask the question: If the Wagner group will be contracted and be on the ground in Mali, does the Green Party believe that Sweden will end the operation both in Minusma and in Takuba? It was not clear in the bill. I have one more question, Madam President. After all, Minusma has a broader mission to protect the civilian population, assist in the implementation of the peace agreement and act to get Mali's democratic development on its feet. We have been able to see that things are not moving forward without going backwards. That is why it is also important to look at the entire UN mandate. The last UN mandate expresses some condemnations and criticisms, but there will be no substantive change to the mandate. In our opinion, the mandate should be reviewed and it should also be made clear that if elections are not held in 2022 – I do not think it will be possible to make reasonable choices already in February when nothing has been prepared – we from the Swedish side have to close Minusma for that reason too. Is the Green Party prepared to back us up in that part?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-254	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the question. I think it is very clear what we are saying if a contract is concluded with the Wagner Group. I was clear in the speaker's chair, and I also think it is clear in the bill. When you say that something is unacceptable and will have consequences, that means that things will change if that happens. When something is unacceptable, that is, of course, exactly what is meant. Then you can't continue with business as usual. We also see that it will change the dynamics so that one might rather move away from having a broader perspective of protection for one's population in order to create security, peace and security and to build democracy. If the Wagner Group comes in, there is a completely different purpose in that, which, of course, makes it impossible for us to remain with an effort that is so clearly opposed to this. It is also quite right that Kerstin Lundgren says: Unfortunately, the development is going backwards and not forwards. Poverty, hunger, education – all parts point in the wrong direction. I met a woman in Gao on a project we have with the Minusma Trust Fund, which is part of this slightly broader mandate that Kerstin Lundgren is talking about. She was in despair because when she was a kid, at least there were good schools. There was faith in the future. Today, millions of children do not go to school at all and have no hope of their future. I therefore believe that we must choose to remain and have a broad and strong commitment there. Whether or not to review the UN mandate, I think we should come back to. There are those who think that there are advantages in looking at it and those who see that there are disadvantages to such a development. We have not landed there on behalf of the Green Party, but we are open to further discussion.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-259	Madam President, I would like It is then good if the consequences are stated that the mandate is being withdrawn for both Minusma and Takuba, the military part of the operation. It wasn't that clear. Consequences are, of course, an issue that we have discussed. What does it mean that it is unacceptable and must have consequences? Does this mean that there is little change in the operation, or does it mean imposing sanctions on more actors? There are a little different tracks that one can imagine in terms of consequences. What is important if we want to avoid Afghanistan's repetition is that we learn and realise that we need to be clear about what the consequences are. On our part, it is very clear, with a conditional mandate, that the consequences must be that our military operation in Minusma and in Takuba will end if the Wagner Group comes. From our side, it is also very clear that if elections are not held, there are no conditions for our action in Minusma. When we say what we expect and then progress in the wrong direction, there must also be consequences. I also think it is reasonable for the UN mandate to be renegotiated, because it is becoming more and more like a spat over UN mandates and reality if one does not update and take a broader approach, for example, in the whole area, because it is a wider circle than Mali that needs to be dealt with.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-263	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely open to, and we are open to, looking at it with the mandate, as I said. There are those who say that the mandate is really as broad as it needs to be but that it is not implemented so right now. This is something that we must continue to look at, that is, how we can develop the UN operation. As I said, I very much hope that contracts will not be signed with Wagner, because that would make it impossible for us to continue our efforts, and the effort is needed. The people of Mali and the entire Sahel region need a Swedish commitment both to support the military efforts and in our development cooperation and humanitarian work. I think it feels very good that we agree with the Center Party and that we continue to work for clarity and improvement for the people of Mali.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-266	Madam President, I would like It's all a whole. What is happening in different parts of the world today is characterised by a great deal of differences in value – fundamental views on what social life should look like – which in some way reproduces in a power struggle that is taking place on different continents and in different contexts. We see this in our own neighbourhood of Russian military reconstruction and various types of maneuvers that put pressure on Ukraine, for example, in a way that we cannot accept. We see it with different types of activities in Belarus. We see that this type of development is in the northern Atlantic and that it is around the Scandinavian Peninsula. We'll see it in the South China Sea. We see it in the Middle East, and it is also in Africa. Many times it is a question of democratic values being set against authoritarian values. Now that we are approaching the situation down in Mali and the Sahel region, we must also see what our effort is basically about. Yes, it's about preventing terrorism. It's about preventing trafficking. It is a question of preventing activities of a negative nature that can also rapidly spread to Europe and affect different countries in Europe. It is about fighting religious fanaticism and jihadism. This is the basis for the engagement of different countries in Mali and the Sahel region. And it will not be without consequence if those countries decide to leave this region. It would create new uncertainties. It leaves power and influence to others. It upsets the balance of this world political scenario. That is why we have not been passive when we have received reports of the Wagner Group's possible arrival in Mali. We have been clear from the outset in the framework of the coalition in Takuba, where it has also been acted together in relation to the Maltese Government. France has been clear on this issue. There is no one who has an interest or acceptance for the Wagner Group or in any way has anything to do with it or is prepared to look between the fingers on this. Our proposal is based on our commitment in Minusma to continue until mid-2024 and that, in the case of Takuba, we will phase out the Special Forces operation in March and then continue with medical teams and staff until December 31, 2022. Ecowas had a meeting this weekend. They called for a timetable for elections by 31 December this year. These are clear requirements that are linked to the preparation of different sanctions. We naturally support Ecowas' ambitions in this area. I believe that, with regard to our actions and our approach to the Wagner situation, it has already had consequences by the joint pressure of the countries participating in this international operation, bringing the issue to the surface and acting actively. As regards the government's continued action, I note that it is on the committee's side that it also notes the coordination that is taking place within the Sahel as an important basis for future analysis and action. It is something that we think is very important that we have and that we pursue these reasonings together with other countries and act as jointly as possible. It is a tremendous strength if you can do so, both in tackling problems and in noting that you can achieve results through joint action. Of course, we will also follow up on this point if cooperation between Mali and the Wagner Group would have a decisive impact on Sweden's military operations in Mali. We will act on these two points that form the basis for parliamentary decisions. Then one can always speculate on what we do in different scenarios. I usually deal with such issues like this: Unlocking oneself too hard at what happens in different scenarios can also lead to prematurely getting into a situation that may not turn out to be the best and the wisest in the end. We will fully relate to these parliamentary decisions. We have no different opinion of the Wagner Group's base and basis. We also see that this is directly linked to the Russian regime, and it also means that there is a power policy aspect to this when it comes to the view of Africa. I am not going to discuss Chinese ambitions in Africa, but it is quite clear that we are seeing developments in which authoritarian regimes move forward positions in different ways. The Swedish Armed Forces have made an effort in Mali and are making an effort that is serious every day. We can see that this contributes to stabilisation in Mali, increases our military capabilities and makes a difference. It also creates trust in Sweden as a player together with other countries in different international contexts. In fact, what we do is we contribute to security there every day. Basically, I check at least once a week if there is an agreement between the Welsh Government and Wagner. I did so at the latest at the end of last week, and I also received a report on this this morning. No one has yet been able to tell me that there is a deal. I want that said. I believe that the process we have had with pressure from many different countries actually has an effect, so the work we have done so far is not pointless. I am a very clear supporter of the view that the phasing out of international operations should take place in an orderly manner, and it should be done together in that case. Perhaps the problem in Afghanistan was that it was announced by a very large contributor in Afghanistan that they intended to withdraw. It was not the necessary coordination. In the coalition of Takuba, we have therefore been very clear to each other about the importance of acting together and informing each other together. In this respect, I can say, in the interests of France, that the French Minister for Defence is working very clearly in this spirit. It is important that it is said. It is a little bit about cleanness to be able to say that too. Otherwise, it can easily become a list by somehow putting a shadow that is not really fair in this context. I was also involved in the defence policy at the time when it was all about international efforts and the interest in national defence was very weak. I thought it was a completely wrong balancing act. Now we have a major investment in national defence, a largely historic development in the budget. Between 2015 and 2025, we are increasing the national defence budget by about 80%. In this debate, I think that, at least from a certain point of view, it can be seen that international efforts would somehow be completely wrong. I believe that this is both. I believe that international cooperation also favours the development of capabilities in the Swedish Armed Forces. But, of course, I believe that the development of national capabilities is number one. That is the line that the government I represent has taken all along. It's both, not either or. There must also be an understanding of complex, difficult situations. If, based on difficulty, we only value the immediate reflex, to leave, there is a great risk that it can be very wrong in the end. The Wagner Group is something that is not acceptable; it is not good from any point of view. I know and know a lot about that business, so there should be no picture of any doubt about it. We shall act in such a way that it benefits international law, so that it benefits international communities, so that it benefits stability and so that we can deal with it properly. We shouldn't speculate too much about whether one or the other happens in different degrees we do exactly in a certain way. The government will act on the basis of coordination within the Sahel coalition, an important basis for analysis and action, and on the basis that cooperation between Mali and the Wagner Group has decisive consequences. That is the focus we will be working on in this context.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-287	Madam President, I would like I note that in this debate there is a fundamentally great deal of agreement on the importance of being present in these contexts and making the efforts involved. It is important for us, and it is important for the people in those regions, not least the Sahel area. Having said that, there are a couple of question marks, the Minister for Defence, which would need to be straightened out. I'll take one question mark per line. The first relates to what the Minister for Defence was at the end of his speech: the link between these efforts and the ability at home in terms of Swedish defence capabilities. At least a couple of parties in this House believe that this is a crucial argument for our withdrawing and for not having done anything at all. At the same time, when I listen to the representatives of the Armed Forces, I hear them talking about the positive effects of such efforts. I've also heard the Secretary of Defense talk about it. So I think there would be a need for clarification from the Ministry of Defence and the government. Is it in that way that the type of intervention we are talking about in Mali weakens Swedish ability at home, or is it not in that way?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-291	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It's just as well that this comes to the surface, because it's always up to some sort of argument. Before making such decisions, we carry out, in a process with the Swedish Armed Forces, an analysis of what its effects are and whether or not we are able to do so. My assessment is that it can be achieved and also that it contributes to increased staff experience, that we benefit from it in the national perspective and, above all, that we benefit from it as partners with other countries. I often get a lot of international feedback about the quality of both equipment and staff that we send out. It is a very good thing, which creates greater opportunities for us to interact in a credible way with others as well as build interoperability in our neighbourhood and gain credibility. So we have got very positive back from the point of view of credibility and competence and from the point of view that we stand by what we have agreed on in international contexts. I would like to add another point that came up in the debate. If we look at it as if countries with, so to speak, weaker military capabilities are to dominate different types of international efforts and if Western countries with both material equipment and competence are to withdraw, that would weaken the entire UN system. I therefore cannot see it as an argument either that we should not be involved in different international contexts. I can see it as a problem, but it is not an argument.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-295	Madam President, I would like It is good that it is said – and Peter Hultqvist says it clearly – that it is not in the way that we are weakened at home by these efforts. Yet, as we both know, there are parties in this House that use it as the main reason against the efforts. Then I think it is possible to call for greater clarity on the part of the government in communication when it comes to explaining and explaining what it really looks like; it is surely my only criticism in this area. The second question mark still applies to the Wagner Group, despite the fact that we were given a detailed account by the Minister for Defence in the speech. But there are two things that come back again: that it is unacceptable and that there will be consequences if we can see a de facto development in which the Wagner Group somehow gets into this. We have been discussing it in committee for a long time and have now heard the Minister for Defence, but there is still uncertainty about what is happening, what it means and what the concrete result is of a situation in which the Wagner Group comes in. Can the Minister of Defence say if this means that Sweden would withdraw? Can the Minister for Defence say straight out that if the Wagner Group comes in, that means that Sweden is going out? I think there is room for interpretation and misunderstanding if the Minister for Defence is not clear that we are going to leave and that we are going to leave if the Wagner Group comes into this.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-298	Madam President, I would like Number one here is that we should now act in such a way that we are putting maximum effort into ensuring that such agreements do not occur. Extensive work has been done on this, and we are working on it together in the coalition. Then, as I said in my speech, we have also said that we have to discuss with each other in the coalition what we do in different scenarios. I don't really want to go into those scenarios, because if we start speculating about this, it won't be good either. But the basic platform for our action, as I have said before, is that everyone in the coalition sees the negative parts of the Wagner Group. There is no doubt about that. On the other hand, to go ahead with the events in advance, about the exact arrangement for what we do, can also play a counterpart in the hands, which one does not want to do. It can look in very many different ways at the end of the day. All our ambition right now is to ensure that they do not sign that agreement. That's where we put all the ambition right now. But there should be no doubt that we appreciate the seriousness of the situation. That is why I have indicated that what is in the committee's report is the direction we will follow. It states that if the conditions for the operation were to change suddenly, for example by the Malian Government entering into cooperation with the so-called ‘Citizens'. Wagner Group, the government must return to Parliament or through relevant committees for information on the implementation by the government of the Parliament's decision on the mandate for the operation. ..................................................... We will follow that order with accuracy, but I do not want to speculate prematurely about things that have not yet happened. However, we have the same view on the seriousness of the situation.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-303	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by shocking the President, the Minister for Defence and the undersigned by saying a few kind things to the Minister for Defence. It doesn't happen every day of the week. Firstly, it is excellent that the responsible minister is in the Chamber when we discuss and debate international efforts. It deserves praise. Secondly, on behalf of the Moderates, who are the largest opposition party, I think it is a strength that there is the kind of parliamentary breadth that we support the two proposals in the main directions of the UN operation Minusma and of the French operation Takuba. Thirdly, it is important to be prepared for other forms of international action. I can think of several different kinds. One area where I think the Minister for Defence has been laudable is the idea that Sweden should be able to contribute if Ukraine so wishes and wants in an effort for Ukraine. In doing so, Madam President, I have tickled three kindnesses. Now I'm gonna ask you a question. I fully share the Minister for Defence's image and description of the fact that it is about combating terrorism, jihadism, smuggling and large-scale refugee flows. But it is also a question of securing the political transition process and holding forthcoming elections. What is worse for the Minister for Defence, namely that the Malian regime and the junta will not hold elections as planned on 27 February or possibly play with Russian mercenaries, the Kremlins sent in the form of the Wagner Group? Which considers the Secretary of Defense and the government to be the worst?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-310	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for the positive assessments. This is particularly true of the parliamentary dimension. It is important that we have that platform for discussion. I said in my introductory statement that I received a report that Ecowas requested information before 31 December. It's really important. It is also important that we keep the Wagner Group away. Then there was the question of grading what is worst or not. I see this as a whole. Both parts are huge problems, and we have to work in both dimensions. I'm not going into the graduation story. I have said earlier today that I see the conflict in a more international perspective where we can see how such questions are posed at the forefront in Asia, Europe and Africa. Interests other than precisely what is happening in Mali are suddenly gaining a great deal of influence over the conflict. I see Wagner engagement from that perspective. Now this has not yet happened. If we succeed in the strategy, we should be able to make these choices, and we should find a situation in which there is no agreement with the Wagner Group. That's the target. If the two pieces are successful, politics has been successful.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-315	Madam President, I would like I think that a strength with the bill, especially the Minusma bill, is that the government has met us in the opposition so that there is a pronounced Swedish exit strategy. That is something that we have expressed earlier in this House. I just want to acknowledge that kindness as well. Now I am not going to ask a question, Madam President, but to make two comments. Without grading, the Moderates firmly believe that where the Wagner group is there is not Sweden. Unless elections are held in Mali with a transfer of power to civilian rule, there must be consequences. Madam President, I would like In previous replicas, the Green Party pointed out that there is extensive cooperation with Mali. For the period that the government has pointed out, 2021 – 2025, it is about 2 billion of taxpayers' money. It is such an area that can have consequences. Madam President, I would like Now, on the other hand, I'm going to ask you a question. I note that the Minister of Defence drew one of the conclusions on similarities, differences and parallels in Afghanistan and Mali by commending the French leadership of Takuba. It is important to note. We must all be disappointed with the way the United States handled allies and friends when it comes to the march out of Afghanistan. Are there any other conclusions that the Minister of Defence can draw in terms of similarities, differences and parallels between Afghanistan and Mali? Now that we have the opportunity to ask questions, has the government yet decided what to do with the broad evaluation of Afghanistan, not only the military operation, but also the civilian component and the aid? So far, I have not seen such a message.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-322	Madam President, I would like The Ministry of Foreign Affairs may return to the latter question. Then there was the question of France versus the United States. I am not going to develop any reasoning on this. I note that it happened as it did in Afghanistan. I note that we have had a good dialogue within the framework of the Takuba coalition, and I think it is an open climate. The spirit is to inform each other, discuss together, see how we are going to move forward and what the consequences are at different stages. I have said before that I do not go ahead in these contexts. I have indicated that we will work on the basis of the two points that I have noted in the committee's report on the future. We will have to return in the event that negative scenarios occur. If negative scenarios do not occur, we do not need to return. That is our ambition, and so far we have managed to keep them away.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-326	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mr Wallmark's praise for the fact that the Minister for Defence is taking part in the debate. I also think it is important. As I mentioned in my opening speech, almost all parties in the Swedish Parliament have a long history of consensus in terms of efforts. But we are facing a new situation. Madam President, I would like I have listened carefully to what the Minister of Defence has indicated with regard to the Wagner Group, that is to say, it has decisive consequences. Obviously, the Minister for Defence believes that pressure on the Wagner Group has already taken place, but the Minister for Defence does not seem to consider it important to be clearer and to indicate that if the Wagner Group enters the ground, Sweden will leave the military operations, both Minusma and Takuba. This should be a clear signal, as we have said now, namely that we do not want the Wagner Group to have an effect on the ground there. Madam President, I would like I also hear the Minister of Defence mention that there should not be a formal agreement. However, allow me to be a little cautious about the wording there. Surely written agreements are not characteristic of the presence of the Wagner Group or of the Kremlin's actions? The Wagner Group on the ground, regardless of written agreement or not, must mean that Sweden leaves the stake. Is that also the clear signal of the Minister for Defence to the coalition, France, Mali and the UN?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-329	Madam President, I would like I have highlighted our approach on the basis of what is stated in the committee's report, and it should in some sense satisfy the various actors in Parliament that we are on the same platform in future action. I am not prepared to take out scenarios that have not yet happened, but we are trying, together with others, within the framework of the coalition, to influence this so that the kind of development that we are now discussing does not happen. I think it has had an effect, but it has not been decided and finally clarified. We've come a long way, but I can't guarantee exactly what's going on in the future. There is no doubt, however, that the Malian Minister for Defence and their government are aware of what our positions are. We have also made it clear in these actions that these are consequences that will occur in the event that they do. It's there somewhere we're standing. If we have an information base that says that the Wagner Group is represented in one way or another, we have to take a position, but in essence it is still that there must in some way be a relationship between the Malian Government and this company whose scope it is possible to take a position on. We cannot take a stand on what we believe and how we speculate. One must take a position based on precise knowledge of the context. We are following this extremely closely and taking all information and intelligence seriously. However, I am not speculating on things that are not covered.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-333	Madam President, I would like We shall not speculate, but neither shall we commit ourselves to the very written agreement. After all, the Secretary of Defense is fully aware that our presence in the area is affected by the appearance and presence of Wagner soldiers, mercenaries. It requires coordination with the entire operation, between Minusma and Takuba and so on. But we should not stand in the way of coordinating a reality in which the Wagner Group and not just the jihadists and others are on the ground. It is, of course, important that we are clear about all the people with whom we are talking. I understand that the Minister for Defence has understood how the parties in Parliament have clearly signalled to the government that if the Wagner group will be in place, with or without an agreement, there is no support in the Riksdag for the presence of Swedish troops. I would like to have confirmed this. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Defence mentions China and Russia in Africa, and it is clear that we see the Chinese presence – in itself also in Minusma – and also the Russian presence in African countries trying to compete for the values that we stand up for, namely our democratic model. It is clear that they are interested in the fact that there are no successful democratic elections in African countries. Therefore, if democratic elections are not held in 2022, it is important to be clear that something must happen in that case regarding Minusma's mandate and work. Is the answer to that question yes or no?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-337	Madam President, I would like All the threats that we are working on are partly about elections being respected and conducted, and also about this thing with Wagner being nothing. That's all this is about. When I listen to parts of the debate, it is rather as if we had not done anything, that we have not understood the situation or that there is some other problem in this context. We have been clear in the coalition from the beginning, and we have been clear to the Malian Government in these contexts. There is no doubt about it. However, we need to see what the situation is before we put our foot down, and I hope that the committee and Parliament will also be serious about what they themselves write. ..................................................... So what matters is that we do this together and discuss it together. Then we are stronger in the end and during the process, and that is when we can achieve results. I am fully aware of how this is viewed in Parliament, but I would also like to tell you what you yourself write in the committee's proposal. I have also explained that we will follow these two points. As far as the view of Mr Wagner is concerned, if I understand it correctly, there is no political dividing line. On the basis of this debate, we have a broad parliamentary outline behind the proposal that is now before us, a good platform. We have discussed the serious situation and the government has acted from the outset. We had an EI2 meeting here in Stockholm, and one of the results of that meeting was an immediate reaction to the Malian government. I think it's basically the same line. But what steps we take and when do we get back to?
i-S1jA5ZdLKLW4GAhAUc6DHA	Madam President, I would like I would like to return to the article by Diana Janse published in Svenska Dagbladet this morning. The Government has, of course, considered this and discussed the differences between Afghanistan and the situation in Mali with better communication with France and so on, but I would still like to return to the question of Sweden's plan B, or exit strategy, for Mali. Regardless of whether there is better communication with France, the reality on the ground is, unfortunately, that there are some similarities with Afghanistan. It is a seriously deteriorating security situation and an extremely volatile political situation with very clear extremist elements. At the same time, Sweden has rightly invested time, resources, military personnel, aid and so on. How do we work to ensure that this is not lost in the event of a severe deterioration of the situation? How do we ensure that the results of the efforts made via Minusma, through strong aid and so on, remain?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-345	Madam President, I would like I can be a little straight and clear and say this: If the idea here is that Minusma should be withdrawn and Takuba should not exist, then the chaos is complete. Then extreme forces will take over. Then this will be deeply negative, and then we will surely see authoritarian regimes stoop into this area as well and gain a foothold. This is about finding a strategy so that we can continue to have UN operations and other operations that are necessary to maintain security in this difficult environment from which jihadism, extremism and terrorism can also reproduce to our continent. If an immediate withdrawal is the option, we will create a major security problem right off. That is why I say that we are fully aware of the problem surrounding the Wagner Group and all the other parts and dimensions of this. But we don't want to get ahead of ourselves. Now we have to make sure that Wagner doesn't happen. Then we have to make sure that this Ecowas thing is respected. They have set a timetable for elections until 31 December. I guess you'll have to come back and judge the situation after that. But here we are not discussing how we prevent the process against the negative, but what we do if the negative happens. These are two different perspectives and dimensions. So far, I have wanted to concentrate on what we are doing to ensure that the most negative scenario does not occur.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-349	Madam President, I would like Actually, I wasn't going to mention the Wagner Group. I think it has been properly penetrated by previous speakers what can happen to it, and I understand that there is clarity in the event that that group is to be contracted. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that it may not be as digital as Kerstin Lundgren was at. You won't wave a contract and publish it on a website. It may be that operators suddenly appear on the ground with no features other than green clothes, as it was in Crimea, for example. Of course, I hear what the Government says. But let us go back to Ecowas and the timetable that has been presented! I understood it was somewhere by the end of December. How does the Government believe that Sweden can act and push within the framework of Minusma or Takuba to follow the focus of Ecowas on holding democratic elections in the first quarter? How can we work to make this a reality within the framework of our efforts?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-351	Madam President, I would like These initiatives have already been taken. This was highlighted from the outset in the context of the coup and in the context of concerns that elections would not be held. This is something we work continuously with ourselves and with others. It is not the case that any new initiatives should be taken to ensure that this happened with the elections, but that the initiatives that have already been taken should be maintained. With regard to the second part, it is important to keep the pressure on the Malian Government so that there are broad consequences in the event that they hire the Wagner Group. We are working on this issue in a complex environment with all the difficulties that exist. But let us take one thing at a time and decide exactly what action to take when we end up in those situations. In any case, I am pleased that we basically have the same view; we should take these problems seriously, and I would like to emphasise that the government really does.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-353	Madam President, I would like I have neither commendation nor criticism of the Minister for Defence, but an honest question about something that I find interesting. In the bill on Minusma, the government is opening a phase-out in 2024. As I said in my main speech, we from the Left Party are not entirely in favour of this, as it stands now. We see the stakes as long-term. We have built up a lot of knowledge and experience about Mali. But we also understand that there is pressure on the government and that we cannot be there indefinitely. How does the Minister for Defence view the possibility for Sweden to enter a new major UN operation on the day we leave Minusma? Does the Minister of Defence see a wish or a desire for Sweden to be in a major UN operation all the time? Is there an idea on the part of the government?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-356	Madam President, I would like I think it would be strange if Sweden did not have a great deal of openness to participate in UN efforts. If we conclude such a great effort, I also think that we should be open to going into something else. There we have the same basic approach. I think it is very important to contribute to the UN system. I also attached a little bit to one of the motives. If countries with a defence force that is relatively advanced – materially, strategically and in terms of staff – do not contribute, then the UN efforts will also be weaker. I do not need to deepen that reasoning, because the honourable Member understands exactly what I mean. I have seen in practice what a big difference it is depending on which country it is. I believe that in practice countries with a qualified military capability have an obligation to participate in such things.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-358	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Defence for this positive response. Then it was a little praise! We fully share this view. We have a joint and several responsibility in the world to help with peace and democratic development in many different ways, for example through aid and through Folke Bernadotteakadem in and all that is done there. I am very pleased with the answer given by the Minister for Defence and the thinking that he has. We cannot promise anything or point out anything, and that is not my intention at all. My wish is that we keep this thought: the day when we may leave Minusma, or perhaps even before, we should prepare for something new.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-360	Madam President, I would like I thank you all for the debate and wish you a pleasant lucia and a good life in general. Maybe we won't see each other before Christmas, so I wish you a Merry Christmas too.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-361	Madam President, I would like Retirement should be something to look forward to. You should be able to enjoy life and feel financial security when you have done your job. Many pensioners are well off and can enjoy life, but there are also many pensioners who twist and turn every crown. Too many pensioners in our country have too low a pension. The injustices, inequality and inequality that exist in our society are also reflected in the pension envelope. Above all, those who have had low wages and poor conditions and, of course, those who have not had provisions for occupational pensions, for example, because the employer has not signed collective agreements. The collective pension scheme is a very important part of our pension system, but it must not mean acceptance of a low general pension. On the contrary, the general pension is the main component of our pension system, and it must deliver better. That is why we need to make improvements within the framework of the pension system, but also to change the structures of society that have a negative impact on pension levels. Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that there is much more we Social Democrats want to do to increase and make pensions more secure, I can see that a great deal has happened this parliamentary term. Firstly, we have gradually removed the unfair regime introduced by the old moderate-led government, which meant that pensioners should pay more tax than those who are still working. Secondly, we have gradually improved basic protection. Last year, both the guarantee pension and the housing supplement were increased by over SEK 1 000 per month for the most deprived pensioners. With the budget that we are now discussing, there will be a further improvement in the housing supplement, or two, one might say. The Government has proposed an increase in the ceiling so that you can get compensation for rents amounting to SEK 7 500 instead of today's level SEK 7 000. Then there will also be an increase in consumption aid to all pensioners who have housing allowances. Happily, all parties now seem to think it's a good idea. Thirdly, earlier this autumn, we introduced a new pension supplement for pensioners who have worked for a full working life but who still receive a relatively low pension. This means that more than half of the country's pensioners have received an increase of up to SEK 600 per month. It should pay to have worked, not only for high and middle wage earners, but also for the assistant nurse and shop assistant who has strove day after day despite low pay, involuntary part-time work and tough conditions. All these efforts aim to reduce the financial vulnerability of our elderly and also reduce the income gap between women and men. We know very well that, unfortunately, it is mainly women who have lower pensions. This does not mean that we are satisfied or ready to improve pensions, far from it. We Social Democrats want to do more to make pensions both higher and more secure, both income-based pensions and basic protection for the most deprived, both today's and tomorrow's pensioners. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that we are getting older and thus getting more and more years as pensioners – more time for life, simply. But living longer also means that the pension we earn through working life must last for more years. This means that pensions will automatically be dropped if we do not make sure that we are able to cope with a longer working life. Working conditions must therefore be improved and opportunities for changing careers increased. Of course, those who are ill or prematurely worn out must be able to feel secure from surrounding social security. Unfortunately, it does not always look like that today, but many are forced instead to take their old-age pension early, even though it means a low pension for the rest of their lives. I think most people realise that we need to work a little longer as we live longer, but then there must be at the same time a valve for those whose body says stop and who get worn out before they reach retirement age. Today, Sweden is one of the few comparable countries that do not have such a valve. In short, that is unreasonable. That is why we Social Democrats are now introducing a security pension for those who are over 60 years old and who have worn themselves out. Those who are worn out prematurely should be able to finish working life with dignity and receive a decent pension. Last, but certainly not least, Madam President, we Social Democrats want more money to be allocated to pensions when we work. We basically have a robust and sustainable pension system that is worth caring for. But when the pension system was launched, the estimate was that 18 1⁄2 percent of the salary needed to maintain reasonable levels. That came to be in practice 17.21% over time, and therefore not enough money is being spent on our pensions. The pension authority's own reports show that the higher target age is not enough for the compensation rate of the income pension to be as good as it once was. That is why we Social Democrats want to raise the levy back to the original 181⁄2%, and we are pushing for more parties. We have an agreement in the cross-border pension group to review and analyse the levels of contributions. That's good, and I'm looking forward to us doing that in the near future. It would be very welcome if we could move forward in broad agreement to maintain long-term stability. Having said that, it is only for me to conclude by referring to our special opinion and to wish the President, the members of the committee and the staff, but above all the country's pensioners, a continued happy lucia.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-375	Madam President, I would like We have a pension system in Sweden that is basically safe. It is based on a number of pillars. It is based on its financial sustainability. Most of it is not in the state budget. Each generation accounts for its own pension. Work should pay off, and it should be predictable so that even today's 30-year-olds can see roughly what the pension will look like if they work as well as they do today. It is also based on the fact that there is basic support for those people who for some reason have not had a wage labour that builds up a full income pension. It is based on both guarantee pension and housing supplement, and it provides basic protection. You can look at what the pension system looks like today and how it has delivered since we introduced it in the early 1990s through the decisions taken at that time. More recently, a number of reports have been reported showing that pension levels have risen in recent years. If you look at comparisons in Europe, you can see that, in terms of today's value, we have gone from 1.1 million pensioners who are termed poor to 300 000 today. That is not to say that we have come where we are going, but I would nevertheless like to point out a change that has taken place. It has gone from 72 to 15 % of people over 65 who are termed poor according to that term. Alecta has reported that today's 66-year-old has 72 000 m in retirement than they had twelve years ago, and today's 69-year-old has 46 000 more than the one who retired nine years ago. Collectum has also carried out studies showing that a large proportion of pensioners are satisfied with their pensions. If you look at the text on which the budget presented earlier last autumn by S and MP is based, you will find figures showing that some 36 000 pensioners have low material standards in Sweden today. The Pensions Authority has also looked at the question of whether or not we have adequate pensions, and they answer both yes and no to this question. No, we do not reach 60% in compensation, which was actually the idea when we introduced today's pension system. One major reason for this is that we do not work relatively anymore on the basis that we live longer. It is also part of a tax engineering construction that was done. I will not go into detail about how it was done, but it affected exactly what my predecessor said here a moment ago, that in practice it is not 18.5%. It is a fiscal component that the government did in 2006. With occupational pensions, however, we are achieving the objective that existed. Today, we are up to 73% in compensation. Looking further at the level of compensation, you can see that the low income earner receives more income compensation as a pensioner than the high income earner. That I am talking about these things is because it is important for me to describe that we have a pension system that largely provides higher pension levels for our pensioners. But again: This does not mean that all pensioners have a lot of money. But I think it is important, because sometimes in the debate it sounds like the pension system is not working at all, which is not true. What has been implemented in recent years is that we have increased the guarantee pension for those with the lowest pension. We have also increased the housing allowance. We have made the adjustment called income pension supplement. I think that in the long run we need to include this in the whole system and not have it side by side. Madam President, I would like We should also have raised age limits earlier. We haven't come to all the decisions yet, but the plans are there. This obviously affects pension levels. The longer we live after we retire, the longer the money we have saved on the way there will be. So what does the Center Party want to do forward? We want to work much more with that it becomes clear and knowledge increases about what the different life choices we make for our pension. Everyone needs to know that it is the number of years in the labour market that is the most important thing when we talk about which pension we receive. It is both about our young people starting work earlier and about the need to work longer. It is about looking at the equal labour market and the view of families. I usually bring in another area of family law in these contexts. Today, joint custody of children is not obvious if you are not married, which also affects your view of the family. Who's gonna take responsibility for the family? It is about increasing the information about the housing supplement and the possibility of applying for housing supplement. Today, not all pensioners who are entitled to housing allowance apply for it. It is also important to review how municipalities manage different systems for what provides the total economy for our pensioners. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that there are people with very low pensions, and we need to look at what the reason for this is. Is it because you have not lived in Sweden all your life, or is it for other reasons? But we should not make these adjustments by loosening the security of the system that we have today. With this, I would like to refer to my particular opinion.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-390	Madam President, I would like It'll pay off to work. The person who works must have the right to safe insurance, good pay and, after a long working life, a decent pension. But that is not the case today. Sweden currently has a poorly functioning pension system. We're getting older, they say. But it doesn't apply to everyone. We're not gonna die at the same time, you and me. The increase in class differences has led to even a fall in the life expectancy of short-term educated women. But soon we can do something about it; then it will be up to proof. The Left Party has now achieved the greatest increase in pensions since the introduction of the system. The proposal for a guarantee supplement will be placed on Parliament's table during the spring, and then all parties in this House will take a position. Those who built the country deserve a decent pension. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners receive SEK 1 000 tax-free a month. All the 700 000 people who currently have a guarantee pension shall be entitled to the allowance. It is not affected by the housing allowance – you get it anyway – and those who do not have the housing supplement are also entitled to the allowance. You do not need to apply for it; it must be paid out automatically from August. The Left party already made this request to this budget, and our own draft budget includes an increase. But the government did not meet us until there was a strong situation in connection with the Prime Minister's vote. Madam President, I would like Pensioners are not valiant by empty promises or fancy valet numbers. The Pensions Group has failed in its mission to guarantee decent pensions to everyone. This continues year after year, without any member of the group from any of the parties involved acting to ensure the security of pensioners. Today we Swedes are among those who work the longest throughout the EU. At the same time, we are at the bottom of the Nordic countries in terms of the level of pensions, and over 300 000 Swedish pensioners are at risk of falling below the EU poverty threshold. We have the largest share of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. Nearly half of all women who are now old-age pensioners have a guarantee pension as a proportion of their pension, i.e. the lowest level of state protection. We will have a decent bottom plate in Sweden. Today you blow people. You argue for the distance of respect by saying to the one who has it pretty bad that there are at least those who have it even worse. Elevated basic level will lead to higher pensions for all low and middle income earners, for the low basic level in Sweden has long helped to keep pensions down. The guarantee pension is currently designed so that it has slipped behind the development of the income of the rest of the population. In order for it to catch up, an increase of SEK 3 000 per month applies. Now we're about to have a chance to close some of that gap. Madam President, I would like Seven out of ten municipal councillors had a guarantee pension a few years ago. The Coronah heroes as they have been called, those who have been applauded from the right to the left, are now told by the right parties here that they have not worked – that, in the end, they would not be worth a thousand more a month in retirement. This is the view of politicians who often have so many things in their wallets every month and who have made the decisions that have meant that this group had to stand at the front while, for example, they have been able to work from home. There is a difference between people and people in Sweden. Nothing could be more wrong than to say that Sweden's pensioners have not worked. Such an ungifted view is for those who have never had to roll up their arms and touch and who look down on the person who works with the body and wears themselves out. The rest of us know better. Pension working groups and respect distances you can talk about, or about wasteful industry support in the multi-billion dollar class to hamburger chains or bonus systems that benefit the absolute top. But no one is going to tell me as a worker child what hard work looks like. I have a grandmother who worked on the laundry in Ockelbo and at the same time took care of four children and a grandmother who, in her profession as a cleaning lady, cleaned both factories and school premises. I have parents who worked on the floor in the shop and in care. So I know; it's in my body and it's part of me. Madam President, I would like The pension system, which everyone says they want to protect, works for the highest-income person, but for low- and middle-income earners it is a disaster. And it is not primarily because the retirement age has been too low, but because pensions were too low, because contributions were too low and because the system looks like it does. That is why the Left Party has opposed an increase in the retirement age. The increased retirement age will not pay off in the pension envelope. For people with regular wages, the extra years will hardly be noticed in the wallet. According to Kommunal's calculations, each individual worked year after the age of 66 gives about SEK 150 more a month for their members. Is this what it means to pay off working? Madam President, I would like Anyone who retires today will receive only half the salary, and worse will be the case. The anxiety is constantly gnawing in the one who doesn't have everything. As a child, one was worried about how the parents could afford it. It's about single moms fighting on or about parents like mine, arguing about how the holiday fund would be enough at Orsa camping. I offered them my five-krona tube, which I had saved up. As adults, we worry instead of the parents'future pension — how they can afford to live. Older people are forced to live on their children in the welfare country of Sweden. It's bad. What I still can't understand for my life, despite many years in politics, is how you can not do everything in your power to change this. Instead, we are told by the bourgeois parties that the left-wing pension with the guarantee supplement is dangerous or that it would be a contribution. Some even have the nerve to claim that it would be populism that older people are better off. What is dangerous is, instead, when politicians get far away from the voters they are elected to represent. We are elected – elected by the people. People's security is the responsibility of politics. It's our most important mission. To the same group that the Left Party has pushed for the pension guarantee supplement, the right-wing opposition has arranged 50 bucks a month. Those who have the most and get the most receive 150 kroner a month. There was no more, despite the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats' wrath for pensioners. It's easy to talk, but when it comes to concrete action, it's not much to hang on Christmas tree. Madam President, I would like Industry support for already profitable companies in the form of reduced contributions costs more than giving 700 000 pensioners SEK 1 000 tax-free per month. According to right-wing economists and the Council of Finance Policy, yes, according to all the assessors, it's a waste of money. Not another job will be created. The money goes into the lake, and the elders stand back. What is at stake here are priorities and nothing else. With the Left Party's demand for the government's budget, a new security pension has now been introduced so that those who have worn themselves out can retire earlier. But that is far from enough. Last year I stood here and said that the sickness benefit or the disability pension must be strengthened. Now the Left Party is in place of the Liberals, and then things happen for real. The basic compensation is increased by SEK 1 000 per month. The ceiling in the housing allowance is raised to the same level as for old-age pensioners, and the penalty tax is removed for the country's so-called sickness pensioners. Madam President, I would like It's almost Christmas. The security of Swedish pensioners is the responsibility of politics – our responsibility. We're going to take back control of the pension system and raise our pensions considerably. I and the Left Party will do everything possible to ensure that more parties take this responsibility. I would like to refer to our specific opinion.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ida Gabrielsson, for your speech. I was going to ask questions about the warranty supplement, because it's been a little uncertain what it really is. We have heard the Prime Minister say that this has nothing to do with a guarantee pension but that it is part of the housing supplement. When we listen to the representatives of the Left Party, it is crystal clear that this is about the guarantee pension. However, the latter point is that 700 000 people are expected to be affected. It should not be a means test, and it should also be tax-free. This makes this guarantee supplement even more generous than both the guarantee pension and the housing supplement. My question to Ida Gabrielsson is, among other things: Will even those in decile 10, i.e. the richest tenths, receive the guarantee supplement? It could be that you have a very high occupational pension, savings on large amounts and own savings on accounts. The fact that the supplement is not means-tested and is to be paid out automatically therefore becomes the first question: Should this group also be able to take part of the thousand that Ida Gabrielsson promises? Another question is: how will the construction of the guarantee supplement affect the escalation of the income pension supplement? I also have a third question. We have a pension agreement in Sweden that says that work should always pay off, even for groups with low incomes. In what way will the guarantee supplement be able to live up to the fact that we still have this about that work should always pay off? These were my three questions.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-418	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the questions, Hans Eklind. Almost all Nordic countries have a significantly higher basic level in their pension systems compared to Sweden. We see that part as important for lifting the entire pension system. Otherwise, there is the risk that with a low basic level one can always argue that the distance of respect is maintained by having a low minimum level. Instead, we believe that more payments and increases in pensions are needed widely in the system. It will not be the case that those who have worked more get less. There will, of course, be a stairway that will ensure that it cannot be that way. The supplement is outside the guarantee pension. The government has not done as you have in the bourgeois opposition, who have gone forward themselves with changes in the guarantee pension scheme when you have excluded certain groups from the guarantee pension. Instead, this is added as a supplement outside the budget. In Hans Eklind's majority motion, which has been passed, it is clear that there is a refugee exception. At least this was not included in the bill that I have read. So there are changes in the system that the Christian Democrats have supported. This is outside, but it's not a means-tested thing. It is simply an addition. Most of them, like my parents, have worked and worked, but in the low wages. Sometimes you've worked part-time. 700 000 pensioners are covered, and they are not the ones who have not worked.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-425	Madam President, I would like It was some question that Ida Gabrielsson at least tried to touch on, and that was that there should be a staircase. When Ida Gabrielsson says that there should be a stairway, the follow-up question is, of course: What are the marginal effects on the guarantee supplement when it comes to escalation and de-escalation? It would be interesting to know, because it has a lot to do with just distance of respect and that it should pay off to work. On the other hand, the question to which I did not receive an answer is: will those in decile 10 also benefit from the guarantee supplement? Ida Gabrielsson says we don't do what you do. What she is actually trying to say is that we want to remove the special rules that exist today for immigrants to be able to count time in their home country when they are going to receive a guarantee pension, and we want to do so from 2023. This fits very well with the investigation that has been carried out, and the Pension Agency has given the green light for this. So it is in 2023 that this change will take place.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-429	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats speak extremely warmly about the elderly. Here you have a chance to give SEK 1 000 tax-free to over 700 000 pensioners with a staircase. Of course, there will be no incorrect marginal effects when the proposal is on the table. We will certainly ensure that that division is kept so that no one can lose by working against someone who has not worked. As I said, most of the warranty supplement will go to those who have worked. Of course, the richest part of the population will not be part of it. As things stand, capital income and other things are not the basis for this, as it appears in the guarantee pension. What's sleeping with is the occupational pension. It will, so to speak, be ruled out. It's in the deal, so Hans Eklind can read it.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-431	Madam President, I would like I reacted to Ida Gabrielsson's speech. In fact, it is not true that we in Sweden have the worst pensions and the worst basic security. You can look at what the disposable income looks like and if pensioners can afford the basics. If you can't afford three out of nine of the most basic things, you count as poor. If we look at those figures, we see that Sweden is the best in Europe. We have the least number of pensioners who are really poor. So it is not true that we in Sweden have the worst. As I said in my speech, there are pensioners with low disposable income. But we are not the worst in Europe; I want to say that. And we have fewer poor pensioners in Sweden today than in 1990. My question concerns how the Left Party wants to finance this and how it wants to ensure that we still have a secure pension system for the future. There are many pensioners in Europe who have been affected by the increase in pensions in an overbenchmark policy, and then, when the state economy no longer allows this, pensions are being reduced. The clever thing about our system is that it is side by side and that it is not possible to twitch the pension system when the public purse is worse. Another thing that I think is good is the level of compensation, which I touched on in my speech. In fact, we compensate those with low incomes more than those with high incomes. The Left Party usually likes that. I ask, as I said, how to finance this and how to ensure a secure system for the future.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-436	Madam President, I would like The payments to the system that we have must, of course, be increased. That is something the Left Party is in favour of. It is also the case that this needs to be better distributed, because today low- and middle-income earners are receiving far too bad pensions. What I mentioned earlier is that we have among the worst bottoms in the Nordic countries and that 300 000 pensioners are at risk of falling below the poverty line. You've been counting on disposable income. There are other dimensions. It's about what you think fits your argument. But I have a terrible argument as to how this is to be financed. It's about priorities. This therefore costs no more than the Center Party spends on large tax subsidies, large sector subsidies, to the hamburger industry in Sweden. All the right-wing economists, all the thinkers and all the assessors say that it is a policy of subsidies. It doesn't give a single new job. There are 19 to 21-year-olds already in employment. And the money goes to McDonald's and other major restaurants where you also have a shortage of labour. So they do not need such a contribution. The amount that you have chosen to spend on subsidising already profitable companies is greater than the amount that we would like to spend on giving SEK 1 000 tax-free a month. That's how much it costs with a reduced employer's fee. That's how much it's cost during this time. As I see it, the Center Party proposes in its budget that this be permanent. We think that instead we should persevere the second. You think permanent contributions should be made to large companies that are already very profitable, through reduced employers' contributions. We think that social security contributions should go to pensions and not to the hamburger restaurants. ( FIRST VICE PALMANN: I would remind the honourable Member to speak through the President in order to lower the tone of the argument. )
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-441	Madam President, I would like There are always different statistics and different measurements that we can use. We can look at the relative poverty, which is compared to the income that exists in Sweden. The number of pensioners below the border has decreased from 1.1 million to around 300 000 from 1990 to 2017 or 2019 – there are many figures in all directions. But the point is, it's narrowed. So it is not true that we have the worst in Sweden. But there are those who are badly off. Then there is how we should look at tax subsidies and what we should prioritise in the budget. Young people who get a job can start working earlier, generating a higher pension for them on the day they retire. However, the honourable Member has not answered my question on how to deal with the security of a pension system. There are risks involved in a pre-election debate on how much we should increase the pension in the Treasury. It can then be withdrawn if tax money is reduced.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-444	Madam President, I would like We know that there have been fewer pensioners who have guaranteed pensions. More people have participated in the labour market. There are fewer women who have been housewives and other things. I didn't say anything else. The Left Party claims nothing else. On the other hand, it is a matter of priority. This therefore costs less than the money that the Center Party spends on subsidies of already profitable companies. All opinionators, including right-wing economists and the Council of Finance Ministers, believe that it does not provide a single job. The Left Party believes that Sweden's pensioners deserve this. We add it to an additional addition to those who, on the basis of the calculations we have, should actually receive an increase of SEK 3 000 per month. Now it's $1,000 a month, tax-free. It's possible to finance. It's about prioritising.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-447	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson has talked a lot about the public pension system but very little about how to work longer. Rather, she has raised this with the fact that you have been worn out and can't work for long. I would like to hear a little about how Ida Gabrielsson sees opportunities for changes in the working environment and opportunities for further training in order to be able to work longer. A lot of people actually want that if they make it.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-449	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. You have a limited number of minutes, but I definitely think that angle is very important. It is about the working environment and how it should be improved and how much resources we spend on equipping working life so that it does not tear people out as it does today. But it is also about allowing and stimulating older people who have jobs where they have not been worn out to work anymore. They should, of course, be offered to do so. But in large industries, the Left Party still believes that we need to make enormous efforts to come up with this opportunity. We may raise the retirement age to 67 or 69 years. It is about that it should not continue so that if you work in caring or in other heavy occupations, you can end at the age of 61 anyway. The only thing that happens then is that you get a lower pension. We need to make a lot of effort there. The Left Party has money for it in the budget, but we also look forward to future health and safety surveys to be made. We hope that more parties will want to be involved and prioritise it, because we think it is absolutely necessary. In a dream world we would of course have such a situation where you didn't have to wear yourself out but where you could work longer now that we live longer. But as long as we have a fairly unequal working life, there will be quite large groups – it is not about any individual – who will be worn out prematurely. We will do everything we can to prevent it and ensure that it is not so forward. Thank you for asking.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-454	Madam President, I would like I would have liked some more concrete proposals on the development of occupational health care and other things. But I also have another question. I didn't hear a sound about the occupational pensions. They form an important part of the pension system. I was on the first working group in the early 90's. When we presented the form of the current pension system, it was also based on occupational pensions. I'd like to hear a few words about that.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-455	Madam President, I would like Occupational pension is of great importance to many, but it is the least for those who have the lowest wages. It is easier to get a good occupational pension if you have a high education and a job with a really good salary. Otherwise, occupational pensions are absolutely an important complement, and it is important that employers have collective agreements so that they can benefit from this. But that is not enough for the system we have. We will have a generally good pension, and we will also have a good foundation in Sweden. We do not have that if you compare it with other Nordic countries. We have a lower basic level than many other countries, and that is what we want to change. At the same time, of course, we want to change the income pension. Occupational pension is difficult for me as a politician to change because it is contractually regulated.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-458	Madam President, I would like 107 years ago, we received our first pension scheme. Compared to today's pensions, there was hardly any money on which to live. But it was still the start of a very important development in Sweden. It had the most positive elements, but it also had a disadvantage, namely that it divided the population. Those who were working became nourishing, and those who did not work after retirement were felt to be tiring. We still have this with us today, and that is an important reason for the age discrimination we see in Sweden, which is more pronounced in our country than in many other countries. In fact, it is most pronounced in welfare countries with good pensions. What does retirement do to people? Yes, some people find it amazing to leave the world of work and be able to do other things. But there are also those who would like to continue. This is the case today, and so it was also in the mid-1950s when Ivar Lo Johansson, a journalist who studied the elderly issues in Sweden, said that it was important to also create old-age jobs in order not to pass over year-rich people to a forced passivity. In 1952 he saw that people are different and have different needs, and this was captured by Minister of Social Affairs Gustav Möller, who at the age of 70 was refused to stand as a Member of Parliament because he was too old to serve in Parliament. The fact that this has followed is perhaps one reason why we have so few year-rich people in Parliament. Gustav Möller conducted an investigation, where the signal was that we should have a safe pension system for those who are no longer able to work, but for those who are able, want and can not close the possibilities to continue in the working life up to the age. Then the same message has been sent out by the National Board of Health and Welfare in 1981, by Fredrik Reinfeldt in 2012, I think it was, and quite exactly a year ago by the Delegation for Senior Labour. Those who want and can continue to work, partly because they think it is fun and meaningful, and partly to contribute to the welfare in Sweden. That is why we Liberals are concerned that LO does not want to contribute to raising the retirement age. Then we get a strain on the pension system. That is probably not enough for 18.5% to enter the system, but much more is needed if we prevent people from continuing in work and contributing to welfare above their age. Now the whole thing is gradually rising. But I think that with the list being made – this is my own opinion – it will not be enough. Let us remember that men now live to 80 years approximately and women to 84 years. When we introduced the pension system in 1913, we were, on average, 56 - 57 years old. It's a world of difference. In the report that the Delegation for Senior Labour came with a year ago, the myths about how it is to add years to life in the world of work were broken. Today Professor Ingmar Skoog says that today's 70-year-olds are as healthy and active as the 50-year-olds were 50 years ago. We have not taken advantage of the positive health development in Sweden. We must acknowledge that those who want and can have the opportunity to continue in the workplace, and also that more people can. That is what Ida Gabrielsson and my discussion were about. It was about creating a better working environment. Unfortunately, work environment interventions have fallen behind in recent years. So we need to rekindle an active occupational health service that is really out in the workplace, mapping in a completely different way from today to improve the working environment. This must also be accompanied by further training. When you start in a nursing profession as a nurse, you should be able to receive further training and, so to speak, climb a career ladder that makes you both able to cope with and find pleasure in the new tasks that you get. We also know that feeling needed, not least in working life, means so much to one's health. This is not just something that we in Sweden have come up with, but it is something that the World Health Organisation is also campaigning for. Then we come to Category 11, which we are discussing today. It covers 42.2 billion. N u it was 375 million more than the government had come forward with, but it can be important millions anyway. The housing supplement is what you bet on. It's the most accurate thing when it comes to improving the economy for those with very low pensions. We Liberals would have liked to have reduced Category 11 by about 500 million in favour of more spending on schools, among other things. But that was not the case. What I would like to highlight here in the last minute of my speech is that we have changed from a system of retirement for the 15 best years to a system based on the entire working income. This makes it extremely important that you already learn how important it is to get to work early in high school in order to get a good pension. I would argue that political youth associations should have this as a priority in their work, because it is the future of young people that is at stake. Madam President, I would like We Liberals support our specific opinion in the report.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-472	Madam President, I would like A safe, healthy and actually joyful old age is an extremely important part of a functioning welfare society. And it is not possible to get away from the fact that a secure income, knowing what income you get and that it is safe and sufficient for what a good life requires, is an essential part. That is what we are debating here today. Sweden has a fundamentally functioning pension system. But the differences within the system are greater than what the Green Party thinks is reasonable. We have groups within the system – not least it is about women – who today do not have the security that one should expect in a country like Sweden. These people live with d a lack of security that economic scarcity provides. It affects their health and quality of life. In order to overcome these problems, we obviously need to work long-term and wide-ranging between the parties here in Parliament. But we must also be able to make short-term changes here and now. The government has chosen to increase the housing supplement in several steps and to change it. It is a wise measure, because it has a very good accuracy. It reaches those with the lowest income. And further steps are being taken in this budget. It is a wise measure in the short term. But at the same time we need to work within and outside the pension system to secure and create an even better basic level, which not least captures women who have worked a lot but not in all parts got it back in the pay envelope and later in a safe pension. Here we have structural problems in our society that are visible in the pension system. And we cannot turn back time and change the standards of work decades back, but we must deal with the consequences. A secure basic protection for those who do not have one or have low earnings-related pensions is an extremely important objective on which the parties agree. I hope that in the future we will be able to find constructive cooperation to deal with this and actually agree. Such attempts have been made. It's been a little slow. But I think that, because the solution is there, we must have optimism in these parts. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that in the electoral movement before us, pensioners will be mentioned often in solemn speeches, promises and election games. I would urge those who are listening to this debate to secure a little bit in the face of the flood of proposals that may come along and think that, for these proposals to become a reality, it is necessary for the parties in this House to actually be able to cooperate and talk to each other and find a constructive tone of conversation. It is not a bloc or a party here that can solve the structural problems that we have through fair promises, but we must sit down and deal with the structural problems. Another extremely important aspect of a good old age is the aspect that previous speakers so well raised, namely to aim for a working life where people can cope all the way and where many people can and want to work even after they turn 65. Then an opportunity to change during life is absolutely crucial. We in the Green Party have been trying to highlight this for a long time, which means that we have to plan for a working life where you make changes – where you have the opportunity to take steps in your profession or change your profession. We have pursued various types of reforms to make this possible. We are now extremely pleased that the social partners have agreed on strong restructuring aid. If we'd called it a free year, it would have caused horror. But now I am pleased that it has received a different name and broad support in the labour market so that the ideas behind the Green Party's reform of the free year can be implemented. It is about having an empowerment as an employee or as an entrepreneur to be able to train and make changes in working life. I am convinced that this means that more people will be able to work throughout their working lives and after 65 years, because it will be needed in the future for welfare and for the health of many people. It is therefore a good step towards securing a good pension system in the future. But of course there are a lot of other parts that are also needed. In this context, I think it is important to mention those who are forced to leave work prematurely for long or short periods and then live during periods of sickness benefit or other types of benefits. Here we have a system failure in our economy. These groups have been lagging behind for a long time. Wages have risen in society, taxes have been reduced for those who earn well and for those who earn medium value and capital income has increased in society. However, the income of the group living on different types of benefits linked to a disease or disability has stood still. At the same time, what they are buying in the store and the rents have gone up. As a result, these people have fallen behind. This is a group that we need to give more attention in the future and strengthen their economy. A first step is that of course they should not pay more in tax than those who have a gainful job. It's an anomaly that no one should accept. Here the government has come forward with a solution to remove this difference. But we deeply regret that M, KD and SD choose to reintroduce a difference in taxation between those who have sickness benefits and those who work. I believe that it undermines confidence in the system and the willingness to pay taxes. It is not reasonable that the person who is ill should pay more tax than the person who is healthy and able to work. That is not how we build prosperity and security for a society that holds together. There we need to come back and remove that difference in the future. I hope that there will be a majority in this Parliament for that. Madam President, I would like I refer to the special opinion of the Green Party and the Social Democrats.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-484	Madam President, I would like I was not going to ask for a reply to Karolina Skog's speech. It was right at the end of her speech that I did. Even though we are now discussing pensions, the honourable Member says that she deeply regrets that we have presented a budget that has won Parliament's voice where we reduce the tax a little extra to solve long-term unemployment. That's what's happening. When it comes to those who have sickness and activity benefits, we increase the guarantee level by 800 SEK. We lower the tax by 850 kroner. However, we are reducing the tax a little further to deal with long-term unemployment. The honourable Member then says that she deeply regrets this. My question is: what is it that the honourable Member regrets and that she is so upset that she uses that kind of expression? I bounced to, and that's why I asked for a line.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-487	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to explain this difference of view that obviously exists between different parties here in Parliament. The Green Party – I know I have several other parties with me – thinks that you should pay taxes according to ability. Then it is natural that those who are healthy, able to work a lot and earn well pay a little more in tax than those who have very low income and maybe have a sick pay. There will be an anomaly throughout the system if the person who works pays less tax than the person who has sickness benefit. It's a system view that we have. When you do as M, KD and SD choose to do, that you lower the tax a little more for those who have a secular job, you create a bad system in our eyes. This is also something that the organisations representing, for example, those living with long-term disabilities have been paying attention for a long time. It is an injustice that they feel is very bad. We have chosen to listen to them. We are pleased that we are jointly removing what is commonly referred to in the debate as the funkis tax. But it is a great pity that at the same time a new difference is being restored in this context. I understand that there are different approaches to how we shape taxation.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-492	Madam President, I would like Then it finally came – the word a funkist, and so forth. The reason I asked to speak is because I think it is important that those who may be listening to this debate should be clear about one thing: we are not facing any tax at all. We'll lower the treasure. We increase the guarantee for those who have sickness and activity benefits. We are actually doing exactly the same thing as the Social Democrats and the Green Party had intended to do with their budget bill. What we do, however, in addition to that, is that we are reducing the tax a little further, in order to resolve this with long-term unemployment. We have almost 200 000 people trapped in long-term unemployment. There is nothing that threatens all the well-being that I know that both me and Karolina Skog think is important as there are people who are forced to be unemployed. Because that's how I see it: people who are able to work want to work. When they cannot, we must strike at all possible measures, and that is what we have done.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-495	Madam President, I would like For those who listen, I think this is not easy to follow, because there are several changes that are being made. That's why it's good to get a line, so we can give the same picture. I have nothing else to say about what is being done. First we make a change, which the Riksdag seems to agree on, and remove the so-called funkis tax. However, M, KD and SD choose to make another change, which creates a new injustice. I regret that, and I regret the Green Party. We will come back in the future and find a method to remove that difference. Here is another difference: I do not believe that the solution to long-term unemployment in Sweden lies in tax reductions. I think it's an incredibly naive sight. Of course, there should be the right support and rehabilitation to find a way forward; that's how people get healthy again, so that they can work. That's what we're gonna do more of.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-498	Madam President, I would like When talking about the economy of older people in this House, it is easy to focus only on those who have the worst – those who have a low pension for various reasons. It is about those who have worked too little or not at all. We should point out that the vast majority of pensioners are well off in Sweden, according to the Pensions Authority, which is responsible for this. They get by on their pension, and they have a good life. They are therefore satisfied with their pension. It is also the case, as I think we should tell you, that every fifth pensioner – that is, 20% of all pensioners – actually got better on the day they retired than they had before. This may, for example, apply to those who have come to Sweden and who have not worked here, who have not worked enough or who have not worked at all. For the first time, they get their own income. We can see that it is work that is the key to a good economy in older days: the more we work, the higher the pension we receive. It's a pretty simple equation. It is therefore very important that it should pay off having worked. All those who in different ways have been involved in building Sweden should feel that their effort through life has been worth something. It is therefore important that we keep an eye on the balance of the various financial investments made for the elderly. There must be a distance of respect between the income pension for the person who has worked and the guarantee pension and other different support that the person who has not worked in the same way can receive. For this we have a stable pension system in Sweden, which we shall be sure of. Many other countries see with some envy that we have such a stable system. However, there is one group that is affected, and it is they – mostly women – who have worked part-time. They have taken care of children and family, usually in parallel with a rather tough job. They may have been home for a few years when the children were small. In addition, they live alone on older days – well, then the margins are not great. For these we have in the past year increased the basic protection with both guarantee pension and housing supplement. We in the Pensions Group have agreed on this, and it is reasonable that we have made these increases. We Moderates have also wanted to reduce tax rates for the lowest-pension group for several years. Why pay a lot of taxes to the state when you barely have the necessities of life? That question has not been answered. Then why do women have lower pensions? Does it have to be that way? No, it doesn't. But it is the case that equality stops when the first child is born. Women are home longer; they take more out of parental leave. They take greater responsibility for family and children, work less and loiter more. This is precisely a crucial factor in the size of your pension when you get older. It may not be something you think about at the time, but that's the way it is. In addition, women have lower wages. In order to balance somewhat the economic differences between men and women, basic protection is central to low-income pensioners. It also goes largely to women, who often have a lower pension than men. However, more needs to be done here. We also need to do more to increase equality between men and women when it comes to retirement. Here, the Pensions Group has a mission, and we must hope that proposals will come from there. We must also combat ageism. We must take advantage of the experience and knowledge of older people. It is therefore important both with better working conditions and with a better working environment, in order for older people to be able, able and willing to contribute further up the years. Many people can and want to work after retirement, but in many cases it is actually impossible – in government and municipal service, you have to go home when you turn 67. This should and should be changed. Madam President, I would like It is true that Sweden needs a new course and that we need to get Sweden in order. There are so many things that have gone wrong, and I who belong to the group that is a little older do not actually recognize the Sweden we once had when I look at what we have today. It is therefore gratifying that the joint budgetary options of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats will govern Sweden's finances next year. We want to put an end to the most acute social problems rather than, for example, spending billions on more paid leave, as the family week was an example of. I would like to point out that pensioners are a priority group in the budgets of Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats. It is so important that older people should be able to be safe in every way – that they should be able to live an active life and have influence over their everyday lives. It also means better conditions for older people, and that is what we have in our budget. Among other things, we do it in two ways. We reduce the tax on Swedish pensioners by 4.2 billion. Indeed, the fastest, safest and most fair way of strengthening the pension economy is precisely to reduce taxes. It is easy to understand, it gives results directly and it is much less complicated than any form of supplement that the government wants to make. We also raise the housing supplement for pensioners by SEK 200 per month. So we are allocating 375 million more than the government is doing because of this, and we are also proposing further increases in the housing supplement in the future. I would also like to mention here the importance of the Pensions Group for decisions on pensions and conditions for the economy of older people. The pension group has been well-functioning for many years, but unfortunately it has creaked in recent years. However, we have a pension agreement from 2017 that still applies. What we are waiting for when it comes to decisions is, among other things, the freedom of choice in the premium pension scheme. It is about the freedom of choice I have to choose funds for 2.5% of the pension contribution, which has made the return much higher – sometimes up to seven times. That freedom of choice is very important and something we have fought for. The same applies to pension age increases, which will fully safeguard future pension systems. We live longer and longer every day. We agree that we have to work more and further up the years to protect our future pension payments, but we have not yet seen any final decisions on this. Madam President, I would like It is also a good thing that the special derogation that is still in force, which gives refugees the right to automatically receive full guarantee pensions and sickness and activity benefits, should be abolished from 2023. This is what stands in the common budget of Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats. If you have not worked, it is not reasonable that you can get such high compensation. The same rules should apply to everyone, and the starting point should be to participate and contribute. I support the proposal contained in the SfU2 report.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-516	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report 2 on Category 11 Economic security in the case of old age. It is with pleasure that I – for the first time, I believe, in all my years in Parliament – can say that I am in favour of the committee's draft budget. That's big! For us in the Swedish Democrats, it is fundamental in our social-conservative political orientation that Sweden should be a country with a strong welfare where we treat those who worked, toiled and built this country with awe and respect. Swedish pensioners deserve not only a pension that can barely survive but a pension that allows them to live a good life and have a good life. It is unworthy and unacceptable that there are older people living on the poverty line today. It is nice to hear the representative of the Social Democrats stand and talk warmly about strengthening pensions, but it is you in the Social Democrats who have been running this country for many years now. You have had the opportunity to strengthen pensions and do much more. Much more needs to be done to strengthen the pensions of our country's pensioners, who have worked and worked a whole life. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is of great importance that pension provision be strengthened in the long term. By switching between lower general wage contributions and higher pension provision in employers' contributions, higher pensions could be achieved while avoiding higher taxes on entrepreneurs. It is totally unreasonable for people to receive so little of their wages today, and this needs to be addressed in the long term. At the same time, Madam President, it is shameful for our country that we have people living on the poverty line – these are the people who have the lowest pensions – and it is of great importance to strengthen the economy for them too. No one should have to worry about not being able to afford their medicine, their rent or, in the future, the sky-high electricity bills. In addition to not having to worry about her survival, we think that the money should also be enough to buy a Christmas present for her grandchildren, have a coffee with her friends or – as my grandmother appreciated very much to do when she was alive – sometimes be able to buy herself a new garment and actually get to look a little nice. Since the housing supplement is income-tested against virtually all income and against wealth, it is a very accurate contribution and a good reform to improve for pensioners who have the smallest financial margins. These pensioners are often women. The reform also contributes to more elderly people being able to afford to move to shelters with Community opportunities. Madam President, I would like The Government has proposed in the budget bill that the housing cost ceiling in the housing supplement be raised to SEK 7,500 per month for unmarried persons and to SEK 3,750 per month for married persons. Furthermore, the Government proposes that the consumption subsidy, i.e. the part of the housing supplement that is not directly linked to the amount of housing costs, be increased by SEK 200 for the unmarried person and by SEK 100 for the married person from 1 January 2022. This is, of course, positive and something that we support. A majority in the committee supports the draft budget by us verige democrats, Conservatives and Christian Democrats and proposes that the consumption aid within the housing supplement, in addition to the increase proposed by the government, be increased by an additional 200 SEK per month for single people and 1 00 SEK per month for cohabiting people from 1 August 2022. For this, SEK 375 million is invested more than the Government's budget. In addition, the joint budget of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats supports the government's allocation of funds for 2022. In the joint draft budget from the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, we also lower the tax on pensions further to strengthen the economy even for those who have worked a long life and who may not be covered by the reinforcement of the housing supplement. For those who earn about 13,000 a month, this may mean a gain of $1,800. This is a very important reform. I did not have time to get into line with the Environment Party's speech, but I would like to make it very clear that in the common budget that has now won the majority we are reducing the tax on those who have sickness and activity benefits. We also strengthen the grant level. The Swedish Democrats have been proposing an increase in the level of guarantees in health insurance for several years, but both the Green Party and the Social Democrats have voted against this. I am very proud that this budget strengthens the economy for those with sickness and activity benefits. I do not want there to be any misunderstanding about it, because this is a very important reform. We will debate even more about health insurance on Wednesday. In addition, in the joint budget, we in the committee believe that the special derogations applicable to refugee immigrants in terms of qualification for guarantee pensions and sickness and activity benefits should be abolished in 2023. We believe that the same rules should apply to everyone and that it is not reasonable that time can be credited in the home country to meet the requirements for a guarantee pension. This would mean a saving of SEK 800 million in 2023 and SEK 900 million in 2024. Madam President, I would like Overall, I am proud to be behind a budget that strengthens the economy of the country's pensioners more than the government's budget would have done. This is very important. I would like to wish all our pensioners around the country a continued happy lucia and a really merry Christmas. I very much hope that during this long and difficult pandemic, the spread of infection will stay in check so that we can all celebrate Christmas with fellowship and so that our older people this Christmas can meet their children and grandchildren. The situation is still uncertain, but today it is lucia, who comes with the message of light. I hope we move towards brighter times. I wish everyone a happy lucia day.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-534	Madam President, I would like Since Julia Kronlid chose to apostropherate me in her speech, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question that is quite simple, so that this becomes clear to those who live on sickness and activity benefits. Is it the case that with the budget drawn up by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, those who have sickness and activity benefits will pay more in tax than people who work and earn more?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-536	Madam President, I would like To answer the question, I think we should go to what this budget actually does for those who have sickness and activity benefits. It sounds like Karolina Skog wants it to make you pay more in tax with this budget than you do today, but that is not the case. This budget helps us reduce tax by nearly 10 000 per year. We also raise the warranty level. This budget from the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats significantly strengthens the economy for those who have sickness and activity benefits. In addition, we are making another job tax deduction. The Social Democrats have done so before in history. It is not a matter of principle or of thinking that it is right or wrong that one should pay more or less in tax. I think that a job tax deduction is a reasonable reform, and I see nothing strange about it. It was also very important to lower the tax; it was far too high as it was before. The difference was too big. Let's narrow the gap. I think that's very important and good. After all, we are also raising the level of subsidies to further strengthen the economy.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-541	Madam President, I would like It is good that we in Parliament now agree to remove the functional tax. It is an initiative that comes from the government, and it is good that you have followed on. However, it is relevant to be able to answer the question of how the budget you put forward affects different groups when you look at them. The budget that the Swedish Democrats have been involved in producing for a difference for those who have lower income through sickness and activity benefits. They're supposed to pay more taxes than the one who makes more money through pay. Julia Kronlid should be able to confirm that. It can be read very clearly in the budget.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-543	Madam President, I would like It is true that we are introducing an additional job tax deduction that benefits those who work a little extra. At the same time, however, one of the biggest economic reforms in the budget is to strengthen the economy for those with sickness and activity benefits. That is something that we have been proposing for years. Even before the common budget and before the government made the proposal, we have been nagging about and proposing to increase the guarantee level. The Green Party, together with the Social Democrats, have voted against this. But it is good that you are finally listening to our proposal to raise the levels. They've been way too low.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-545	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' policy in this area can easily be summed up by the fact that we want to see a good pension for both current and future pensioners. When we see that pensions for some are not enough, we propose measures to correct that. At the same time, if we are to do this, we must strive to ensure that we have a long-term view so that action here and now does not threaten the right of future generations to receive good pensions too. The Christian Democrats therefore defend the pension system that Sweden has. It is a fundamentally good system. For those parties who are set to manage that pension system, it is important to adjust the shortcomings so that they can be removed but at the same time beware of confusing the state budget with the pension system. It was one of the important basic rules when it was launched once in the 1990s to ensure that the pension system lasts over time. Now there will be substantial improvements for the pensioners next year. The message of the Government of Ardalan Shekarabis this morning on morning television was: It is good to get the grade that pensioners are the winners when Parliament approved the draft budget negotiated by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. I am not surprised that pensioners were the winners of the draft budget, because the Christian Democrats were at the negotiating table. The possibility of living an active and safe life as a senior has many times to do with the economy. We therefore reduce the tax on the country's pensioners by SEK 4.2 billion, and to strengthen the pensioners with the worst pensions and the worst financial margins, we raise the housing supplement by SEK 0.9 billion. Madam President, I would like This budget also has another very strong advantage. We understand that money is not everything. Therefore, there is also an effort to break the loneliness of the elderly. It is about finding ways to break the loneliness and isolation that many older people are forced to live in. I have seen this at close range during my years as a congregation shepherd and priest. It was decidedly one of the most important reasons why I became active in politics again. The countless conversations I have had with the elderly but also with relatives who have lived at such distances that they have not been able to meet their old mother and father has created a great determination in me to shape a society where older people should feel security and dignity. In Sweden it has unfortunately been quiet about this problem for a long time. I'm sure that silence depends on a lot of things. I think that some otherism, as I call it, is a very important reason. There's always someone else who's gonna solve this. We have a state-individualist society where it is not normal to reach out a helping or welcoming hand. The loneliness and vulnerability of the elderly can only be overcome if we activate civil society. I am very proud that there is such a bet. Madam President, I would like This budget was now not a one-off event. It may be appropriate to recall that during the time of the alliance governments we reduced the tax five times for pensioners. We raised the housing allowance three times. Together with the Moderates, we negotiated Christian Democrats and were supported by the Swedish Democrats during the very first year of this parliamentary term. This was the case for all pensioners and not just those who had a pension of SEK 17 200 or more, for that was the proposal. All pensioners, including those with low pensions, benefited from the tax cuts. In the same budget, we removed the special salary tax for the elderly introduced by the Promise Government. It was in fact an extra tax on pensioners who can and want to continue working as a nurse, teacher and so on. Madam President, I would like Building a society where everyone can age in security and dignity is an urgent objective for us Christian Democrats. A country like ours can be judged to a large extent on the basis of society's respect for, exploitation of and concern for the older generation. Therefore, good care, needs-appropriate housing and small communities throughout life is something we think is a matter of course to offer. In addition to the involuntary loneliness of the elderly, we have also been alerted, not least through the Corona Commission, to the need to improve working conditions and job security in the care of the elderly. That is why it is also important to mention that in the common budget with moderates and Swedish democrats, we Christian Democrats have also ensured that there are reforms and resources for increased staff continuity and medical skills in the care of the elderly. For example, we ensure that there will be less use of so-called shared tours within elderly care. I support the committee's proposal.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-558	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats do not take part in Parliament's decision on SfU3 given that our proposal fell within the scope of the Committee on Finance. That is why I refer to our opinion so that I do not forget it. Since 2014 – it is now quite a few years – I am on leave of absence from my job as a terminal worker in Kiruna. I'm on shift team two, who last night stopped working his afternoon week. They have now entered into established time. That's what we used to call a week off. It might be a favorite week at work. At work we check trains, we load trains, we unload trains, we switch trains, we clarify locomotives and we detach trains. The wagons weigh 20 tons each and are filled with 100 tons of ore. Thus, a train weighs over 8 000 tonnes for these 68 wagons – which are then pulled by the world's strongest electric locomotive, Iore. It is quite important that the trains are in good condition when they are to be transported from the mine in Kiruna to the port of Narvik. We work mornings, afternoons, nights, weekends and even – horrible thought – Christmas Eves. Our shift schedule takes into account only weekly numbers and rolls at five-week intervals. Before I got a leave of absence from my job as a railway yard troll, my family consisted of the one I was born into and my beautiful dog Hemi. On the other hand, I had many colleagues who had cohabiting couples, husbands, wives and children– maybe not all of them at the same time. Our shift form was pretty good if your partner worked daytime or had the same shift shape but other weeks. It allowed for more time with the children and longer continuous leave. Depending on the boss we had at the moment, it was different easy to get the day off because the kids' school wasn't open. Madam President, I would like In my previous work it was not as easy to puzzle with the circumstances of life. My colleagues at the nursing home knew that they would not be replaced if they did not come to work when the children became ill or preschool were closed for study day. They knew that the old people would have to wait even longer for breakfast and morning medicine and that the workmates would get even more tired feet if they didn't show up. At the hotel, absence meant that duties were not carried out and guests were to complain about the service because the service staff was not large enough. The conditions for a Töyrä that is not in Parliament's chambers are different than delayed flights and a lot of time in a bed that the children are not in. Those conditions are stress, inadequacy and missed breaks. The government that presented the budget bill for 2022 is not unaware of what the conditions are like for the employees at LKAB, at Vilan or at Icehotel. This is why a new reform was presented that would enable all parents to balance the demands of working life with those of the rest of their lives – three days a year per parent who would not have performed miracles but who at least the three days had given a parent the opportunity to be with their child when they are called to a developmental discussion or when the holidays are many and long. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats still want to give Sweden's parents this opportunity in their draft budget. But they don't want the parents to get any compensation for it. Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that the three parties that usually have the highest tails when it comes to the Social Democrats making bad proposals still do not change very much in the draft budget they got through here in Parliament. What may not be remarkable is what proposals they delete or destroy. These are unilateral proposals that would make it better for ordinary people. A family week without money, abolishing cheaper rentals and reducing the conditions for getting people into work are the right-wing conservatives recipe for 2022. Otherwise, they think the government is quite wise, and I thank you for that insight. It provides the opportunity to come to an agreement on important issues in the future.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-571	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have parental insurance that is good and generous. It gives children the right to their parents and the right to care at the beginning of life. However, the parental insurance we have needs to be partially reviewed. It needs to be adapted to today's society in order to promote a more equal set-aside, promote integration, promote entrepreneurship and also allow different family constellations. To get there, we need to change our view of parenthood. It is a picture that emerges from the beginning of life, when the baby is born. Today, many children are born to parents who are not married, which in practice means that they do not have joint custody. Then both parents do not have access to parental benefit. Madam President, I would like I believe that if we have constructive discussions, we can see and change the outlook that exists today and the expectations that exist in parenthood. We can create knowledge of what life choices mean for our future. It can affect how we choose to be in the labour market. This in turn affects our future pensions, as we have just talked about. Research shows that many women choose to change jobs after having their first child to work closer to their home, and in some cases they also lose their pay. This is important to talk about – how we expect to deal with our children. It is a social debate, but it is also a question of reviewing the regulations – how days are taken out, how days are expected to be taken out and what rules prevent a more equal set-aside. The Center Party wants to reintroduce the gender equality bonus that existed before. We also want to introduce a bonus when it comes to taking care of children. The reason for this is that it is not the short-term economy that should govern how we choose to take our parental leave. It affects so much for the rest of your life. I would also like to mention the housing allowance, which is an important part of many parents living in an individual situation in order for them to be able to afford their housing. Here, too, we need to review the regulatory framework, which today is partly in conflict with parents. It requires how many days the child should live with one parent to receive housing allowance. It also requires the size of the dwelling. It's causing trouble for these families. Then I wait for you to take the step and actually make a monthly reconciliation of the housing allowance. I don't really understand why it should take so long. This means, in practice, that a family receiving housing allowance during the spring may be liable for reimbursement at the end of the year. You get a job and start making money, and all of a sudden you become repayable on an annual basis. Which single parent dares to take a job in the autumn if you risk having to pay back the entire housing allowance from spring? I don't really understand why it's taken the government so long to come up with this. You just shoot that investigation at the future. I sincerely hope it will come soon. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that we have good parental insurance and family insurance in Sweden, but that we need discussions on how we can change the view and choices of parenting and how we can adapt it to entrepreneurship, get an equal withdrawal, promote integration and ensure that it works for several different family constellations.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-581	Madam President, I would like Budget is really just another word for priority. Liberals are presenting their own budget exercise and a reform agenda that prioritises a strong school of knowledge, which prioritises everyday life for those who depend on LSS interventions, who kick off the work of paying off the integration debt that has been allowed to grow for too long and which gives Sweden the opportunity to become the world's first climate-neutral welfare country. In addition, we greatly strengthen the entire legal chain, strengthen the work line in benefit systems, lower taxes on labour and savings, and strengthen the Swedish innovation and business environment. Madam President, I would like It is positive that Parliament's decision on the framework for the State budget 2022 means a slightly less red-green policy for Sweden. In important areas, course shifts are carried out in the liberal and bourgeois direction, which we naturally welcome. At the same time, there are elements in the budgetary orientation that the Liberals do not support. Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we wish to stand for, we Liberals are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 12. Instead, we refer to our particular opinion. The Liberals' budgetary options, Madam President, should be seen as a coherent package in which no part or part can be broken out and treated in isolation. Madam President, I would like Sweden has the world's most expanded holiday system and the world's most ambitious parental insurance. Parental insurance is essential for everyone to be able to combine work and parenthood. In a situation of more than 200 000 long-term unemployed, high school needs, major problems of crime, excessive taxes on labour and a threatening climate crisis, it cannot be a priority to spend just over SEK 3 billion on increased leave. Liberals therefore reject the so-called family week and use the resources for more urgent efforts. We simply give a different priority. Madam President, I would like Unemployment is more than twice as high and the share of those living with support is more than three times as high in the country's exclusion areas as in the rest of Sweden. Median income among those of working age is only around SEK 17,000, and the difference in income between women and men in exclusion areas is more than 50 percent greater than in the rest of Sweden. Without role models in both women and men who work, dependency on benefits is inherited. In exclusion areas, the proportion of pupils who do not qualify for upper secondary school qualifications is twice as high as that of students in the rest of Sweden and twice the proportion of those who still do not graduate. The state cannot abdicate on the question of basic education that should apply to everyone, regardless of where in the country you live. Madam President, I would like Liberals want to continue to prioritise their efforts on a reform agenda to strengthen the conditions for Sweden's families and children. That journey, Madam President, begins in the classroom. Liberals want to increase the teaching time in the Swedish comprehensive school in order to counteract school failures, give all children – high-performance children as well as children who are struggling and come after – enhanced opportunities to reach further and counteract the tendency that teachers are forced to prioritise away elements in the curriculum because they simply don't have time. Therefore, we set aside more than SEK 1 billion for liberals during the years 2023 – 2024 in order to increase the number of hours of teaching in mathematics and Swedish subjects in the Swedish comprehensive school. In total, Madam President, the Liberals spend SEK 14 billion more than the government on school in 2022– 2024. These are liberal priorities that we would have liked if our budgetary motion had won the approval of this House.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-590	Madam President, I would like Genuine equality is about values, respect and equality. People are healthier and freer, companies are more profitable and society is more transparent and democratic in countries where gender equality is high. Equality is about both parties in a relationship having the same opportunities to shape their own everyday life, their own ownership and their common life, without gender-based, traditional or religious demands that restrict freedom. Sweden has come a long way compared to many other countries. We have generations before us to thank for that, Madam President – our mothers and our mothers. We also all have a shared responsibility to hand over an even more equal society to future generations. There are two objectives for family economic policy decided by the Riksdag. The first objective is that everything we decide here should contribute to a good economic standard of living for all families with children and reduce the differences in economic conditions between households with and without children. The second objective, Madam President, is that economic family policy should contribute to equal parenthood. One measure has so far been relatively low economic standards. This means that if someone succeeds in life and gets better, someone else will automatically get worse, even if in practice they are just as good. A better measure must then be said to be low income standard, which measures how much the family has left after basic consumption. Overall, the financial standards of children's households have increased, but it is very worrying that the differences between different types of household are large and not decreasing. Single mothers have the toughest, and for single mothers with foreign background, the difference is 22 percent against single mothers with Swedish background. This is a major failure of the policy of the Red Green Government. Rising fuel prices, rising electricity prices, the government's failed energy policy, the government's unwillingness to keep a national census in order to curb all the wrong-paid subsidies and the government's failed labour market policy, where unemployment is increasing – all in all, Madam President, will unfortunately reduce the margins of those families with children who are already having a difficult time. When electricity bills come after Christmas and are piled up, it will lead to more families with children ending up with the bailiff. Figures presented today by the bailiff show that 273 children were evicted during the first six months of this year. It is a disgrace to Sweden as a high-taxation and welfare nation. The Moderates stand up for the work line even when it comes to parents and prospective parents. It must be easy to take a job. It must be easier to make an effort and learn, and it must pay to work – even as a parent or a future parent. The Moderates therefore want the Parental Leave Act to be revised so that it fits today's modern labour market, including combinators and self-employed people. If you are a student and become pregnant, you should be protected during the last pregnancy period, and the pregnant student's SGI should be protected. If you are newcomers in Sweden, it is important that you enter the labour market as quickly as you can. Therefore, we want people to qualify into the welfare system and propose that parental benefit at basic level, i.e. for those who do not have an earned income, be limited to 365 days. Madam President, I would like We're still in the middle of a burning pandemic. We see that the number of restrictions is increasing again, and countries are closing their borders. In the border country of Norway where I live, the companies in the border trade and tourism industry have a very difficult time. These companies support a large proportion of the population, many of which are families with children. We are also in the midst of a criminal crisis in which society is becoming increasingly insecure and find it difficult to resist the gangs shooting and blasting with indiscriminate force. In that situation, Madam President, spending billions of dollars on taking fully healthy and fully able-bodied people out of work to be free for a week, the so-called family week, is not very wise given that Sweden needs all the hours of work in order for companies to be able to restart and again dare to invest. Instead, in our budget, we invest the billions in order to get Sweden in order, in a judicial system that works and in a security to trust. With the work line comes hope and faith in the future. I therefore support the proposal in the committee's report. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President a blessed, joyful and safe Christmas.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-602	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Sofie Alm points out that we should thank previous generations who have gone ahead for having a country as equal as we actually have. I would really like to take this opportunity to thank the generations who have gone before us and who have voted for the Social Democrats or who have committed themselves to the Social Democracy in order to drive forward the changes that we are seeing today have made a huge difference to gender equality. Many thanks to all of you! I choose not to point out what the Moderates have been doing on these issues over the decades, nor will I, Madam President, talk about the other areas of expenditure raised by Mr Alm in his speech. I choose to point out the area of expenditure that we are actually talking about today. Alm mentions that we cannot afford to have people free in the situation we are in right now. Yet, in an otherwise almost unchanged budget, the Moderates still have to keep the family week – it's just that those who choose to withdraw it don't get any compensation.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-606	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Emilia Töyrä! Today, many parents experience great stress when it comes to coping with family life and working life. I believe that Mrs Emilia herself knows this, just as this honourable Member does. I think it is quite wrong that the people who have children should be able to get extra time off with the help of others who are going to pay for it. In a workplace such as Uddevalla hospital, those who happen to have children of the right age should be able to leave six half days a year. The employer should be able to piece together that schedule, and those who are left and who do not have children should then be able to remain on the work floor and possibly work a little faster. Because it's hard to put together substitutes for such a work schedule.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-610	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm, for the question! I would like to refer Mr Alm to asking such questions in connection with a main speech. I would like to take this opportunity to ask once again for clarification as to why it is chosen to do this on the part of the Moderates, among others. It is clear that it is difficult to cover up – I also mentioned that in my speech – when people are gone. As to why parents do this, it is not under any circumstances that this should apply. It is not a substitute for vacation, but there are circumstances that you cannot influence as a parent, such as school closures. Therefore, I would like to ask Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm once again: Why do the Moderates not think that children who have working parents should be entitled to their parents when life so demands?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-613	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is obvious. Of course, parents and children should be entitled to each other when life demands it. I have no other answer but that there is room for flexibility. We must be able to provide that scope for flexibility in parental insurance. Things happen as you grow up as a child, and things happen in parents' lives too, but those who do not have children should not have to pay for the leave that Magdalena Andersson himself talked about here and then said: Who does not want to be free for a week and go with the children to the mountains? We should not let others pay for the luxury consumption of parents.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-616	Madam President, I would like As I said today, we are debating Category 12 Economic security for families and children, and I call for approval of the committee's proposal for a decision as a whole. Madam President, I would like Safe families with children's best interests in focus is a fundamental element in the policy of the Swedish Democrats. We have a vision of a childhood guarantee that, among other things, means that society, as far as possible, will ensure a safe upbringing for children and that the best interests of the child are put in focus. In safe and functioning families, we lay the foundation for healthy individuals who in turn reflect the entire society. By upgrading parenthood and family life, we benefit both children and society. We believe that politics needs to step back and let parents make their own decisions over their everyday lives. Instead, the policy should present a palette of options that can be adapted to the needs of families. We therefore want to promote a family policy that creates the conditions for parents to be able to share parental responsibility on the basis of their family's life situation without politicians being in and in detail controlling families' own life puzzles. Madam President, I would like However, the fact remains that family formation often affects the economy of adults to varying degrees, which is most evident for the parent who spends the most time at home. It is a balancing process that requires balanced and sustainable reforms in order to achieve the conditions for equal income and pensions, while at the same time giving families flexibility and power over their own life situation. Madam President, I would like In the long-term economic family policy of the Swedish Democrats, we believe that there are a number of areas that would need to be strengthened. Among these, there is an extended possibility for all pregnant women to receive pregnancy allowance last time before giving birth because it would reduce stress before giving birth and thus reduce the risk of birth injuries. Madam President, I would like To protect the families' first time with their newborn baby, we also want to work to expand what is called father's days. We want to give parents who are going through the most difficult experience, to lose a child, an extended opportunity to deal with their grief in peace. In order to target the most vulnerable families, we would like to strengthen the housing allowance in the long term. Some of these longer-term family policy proposals will be dealt with in the motion report this spring. In this joint budget, which we have together with the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, I think it is a good thing that we have been able to agree on important reforms for Sweden as a whole and which also received the support of a majority in the Swedish Parliament. It is a tremendous success for us to be able to take some first steps in leading Sweden in the right direction. In this budget, we have had to make certain priorities. I am convinced that these reforms are also of great importance to the families with children in the country. We were told earlier in the debate by Emilia Töyrä of the Social Democrats that the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats would not benefit ordinary people. But, ladies and gentlemen and Madam President, it is common people, ordinary families with children, who are also affected by the apparent crime we see in Sweden. It is common mothers and fathers who worry that their children are not safe when going to or from school or to their leisure activities. It is ordinary mothers and fathers who every day when they go to work leave their children in preschool and want them to be in a safe environment, and in this budget we invest in smaller groups of children. Madam President, I would like It is common mothers and fathers who live in the countryside, not in the inner city of Stockholm, who have to take the car to work, to preschool and to the activities. They need the tax cut on the fuel. These are no unusual families with children. This applies to the ordinary everyday life of many families with children. I am proud of the budget that we have put forward in which we prioritise those efforts. It is actually, believe it or not, ordinary people who work in Sweden and who need a tax reduction. A lot of ordinary pensioners also appreciate a tax reduction on their pension. Many with sickness and activity benefits also appreciate the tax reduction that goes through with this budget. On the other hand, the committee does not agree with the proposal on family week. The purpose of family week, to make it easier for families with children, is good. We also want to make it easier to put together the puzzle of life. But it seems a little strange that the Social Democrats first set up complicated regulations for parental benefit, make it as difficult as possible to get as much out of parental insurance as possible, and then compensate it with a completely different reform, so that it will sound good in an election movement. The government has introduced a block at the age of four, which means that a certain number of parenting days must be spent before the child turns four. Statistics from Försäkringskassan show that for just over 70 per cent of children born in 2010 there are days that have not been used. A total of 3.7 million days and an average of 33 days per child burning inside. A simpler and more economical solution would be to remove this barrier and open up the possibility of taking parenting days when needed, for example during study days. In addition, the government has introduced mandatory quotas. It also means that days burn inside; one parent may not be at home. One parent may be self-employed and may not be able to use his days. Then days burn inside and cannot be used. In addition, it is questionable why it should be possible to get compensation for being at home with healthy teenagers up to 16 years of age. Today it is not even possible to take out vabs for sick children over 12 years of age except for special exceptions. I have every sympathy for reforms concerning our young children. But why should we pay for someone to be home with a healthy 15-year-old? I wouldn't have the conscience to do it myself when my kids are teenagers. I think they can handle themselves. The government stands in the way when it comes to being at home with children when they are small based on family circumstances but wants to spend money on parents being at home with healthy 16-year-olds. At present, as it looks in Sweden today, we prefer to create a safer Sweden, safe preschools and to abolish shared tours. It is common people who work in health care who suffer from shared tours. The Social Democrats have not been able to remove the shared tours in all their years of power. But we do now. And it will benefit a lot of mothers. However, in order to reconcile the days of crisis, and when the parenting days are not enough, we have proposals for increased unpaid parental leave, when no other solution can be found. Getting family life and working life together is indeed a major challenge for many families with children. I want to give a gold star to all the families, parents and children who do their best every day to get it together with school, work, activities, homework and more. Today I myself am in a difficult dilemma; at the same time as this debate is taking place, my little daughter has her lucia train for five years. But I hope that someday, when she hears this, she'll know that I'm thinking about her. I'm a little touched. I know this is how many parents have it. Sometimes you have to work when you'd love to be with your kids. At the same time, I have a lot to be grateful for. I'm sending a thought to the families who are having a tough time. Our ambition is that there should be conditions for all children to grow up safely. I hope a lot of people have a memorable and nice lucia day. I wish all the children who have not yet had the best of luck today. I will take part in another debate before Christmas, but I would still like to wish those who are listening today Merry Christmas.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-637	Madam President, I would like As so often, the Swedish Democrats say they want to do a lot of nice things. But once it comes to the end, power attracts more than anything else. Ordinary people benefit from this budget; that is absolutely the case. But what I said in my speech was that the changes that the right-wing conservatives choose to put in, on the other hand, do not benefit ordinary people. They're hitting ordinary people. The Swedish Democrats, together with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, have left the family week, but without compensation. You don't want cheap rentals. And there are just a few examples of the changes in the budget, which are otherwise very good. I have to agree with that; it is a social democratic and environmentalist budget. But the changes that are being made clearly strike the common people. Madam President, I would like My question to Julia Kronlid is: How can we trust that what the Swedish Democrats are saying and what they are saying is their policy is what they will bring forward when power is miraged?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-641	Madam President, I would like Yes, there is much in the Social Democratic budget that benefits ordinary people, but that also applies to the reforms and changes that we are making in our joint draft budget with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Could Mr Emilia explain to me how it does not benefit ordinary families with children that we reduce children's groups so that children have a safe life in preschool? In what way would it not benefit ordinary people to make more efforts to bring down the runaway crime? It's common people who are worried about the runaway crime. In what way would it not benefit ordinary people to reduce the tax on petrol so that they can afford to take the car to work, school and activities? In what way would it not benefit ordinary people to lower the tax? In this budget, we are reducing taxes both for those with sickness and activity benefits as well as for those who work and extra for pensioners. I find it hard to understand why it wouldn't benefit them. When it comes to whether we can be trusted, we have often said that we want to take a strong stand against crime. Let's do it. We have often said that we want to protect safe health insurance. These reforms will now go through. We have said many times that we want to reduce the tax on petrol. Now it's done. A great many things that we have wanted to get through will now go through with this budget. We have often said that we want to strengthen the economy of the most vulnerable pensioners. It will also go through. I would like to ask a question back to Mrs Emilia. Why have the Social Democrats put up this four-year block in parental insurance? Why not just remove it? And why is it so important to go in and direct the family's own life puzzle with quotas so that parenting days burn inside? The Social Democrats have set up a regulatory framework that makes parenting days burn inside and cannot be used. Then they'll make up for it with a family week. It's just getting complicated.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-646	Madam President, I would like I thank Julia Kronlid for the questions. As I said in a previous change of line, questions are more appropriate after a speech. I recommend returning with those questions. Nor do I perceive that I received a correct answer as to whether it is possible to trust the Swedish Democrats. If we are to stick to the various areas of committee expenditure, we can remember what has happened to the pensioner tax in previous budget votes and debates, and we can remember what has happened in other committees when it comes to the terms of collective agreements. I give the honourable Member another chance to answer the question of how we can trust that the fair words of the Swedish Democrats in this House will also become a reality.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-650	Madam President, I would like I thank Emilia Töyrä for the question. I think I made it clear that many things that we have said have been covered in the budget. This is the time we have been involved in influencing the outcome of the budget. Then we haven't changed everything. The bulk of the government's budget remains, but many of the things we have changed have been important to us. One of those things, for example, was to abolish the shared tours, and we have been talking about this for many years in Parliament. And this has been through. Another thing has been to strengthen the economy of pensioners. We have also talked about this for many years in Parliament. The tax on pensioners is now being reduced, and we are also strengthening the housing supplement. I can list a number of other proposals that go through. This applies, among other things, to safe preschools with smaller groups of children. Why am I talking about all this? Because a political priority has been given to family policy. These proposals are important, as we have said for many years.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-656	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate one of the important political areas, namely the family. We see in opinion measurement after opinion measurement that most Swedes point to the growing insecurity as the political issue where we politicians are expected to formulate a sustainable strategy for how security is to be restored. We Christian Democrats have pointed out the need for more police officers, better technical equipment and even tougher penalties for those who commit crimes. However, a sustainable approach must be based on understanding that a safe society starts with safe families. Based on this, we formulate a family policy that is based on giving parents and children more time with each other and less stress to make everyday life go together. The budget adopted by the Swedish Parliament takes some important steps in the direction that we Christian Democrats want family policy to be designed to make room for both family and professional life on equal terms for men and women and to provide family conditions for time together. We will also provide security for parents to know that their children are given a place in a safe and developing environment in school, preschool and educational care. We create more flexibility for parents. The right to unpaid parental leave should therefore be extended by three days per year and the parent of children aged 6 to 16 years, and we remove the Family Week of the Social Democrats. We invest 2 billion in smaller children's groups in preschool. This is a prerequisite for better children's development and greater security and learning. We are investing SEK 500 million in a so-called parental support programme. It is an effective way to help parents and children who are in dire straits. The money will be available for three years – in our budget we have thought so – and that is why the programmes will be available in all municipalities. They should apply to parents with children up to their teens. I therefore call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. Madam President, I would like Earlier in this Parliament, I have expressed my surprise in the speaker's chair at how consistently social democracy avoids talking about the family and the importance the family has for the development of society. I have noted that former Prime Minister Stefan Löfven in his government declaration when he talked about how the government would overcome the violence and crime avoided talking about the family. It is my firm belief that if we do not bring the parents into this, there will not be enough 10 000 more police officers or a lot of surveillance cameras. The family is the single most important element in crime prevention. Now we have a new prime minister. She delivered a long and comprehensive declaration of government – 44 minutes. To make sure that I didn't hear wrong, I did a search in the text, and I searched for the word. I got one hit. The only time that Magdalena Andersson used the word a family in 44 minutes was when she quoted Fadime S ahindal's words that she uttered in Parliament a year before she was murdered: I wholeheartedly agree with that view. Madam President, I would like It is possible that I, as a Christian Democrat, have a little too high expectations, but to keep a political line and leave out a discussion about the family is, in any case, unthinkable to me. Still, it must be difficult to overestimate the value of a secure family with undemanding love and loving requirements. It is in the family that children learn empathy and to share. I myself have had the happiness of having three sons, and as a parent I have tried to equip my sons with an inner compass, to distinguish between good and evil, right and wrong. It's a compass that hopefully will carry through life. As a child, family members also learn responsibility and trust. When the family fails, there's no adequate substitute... for a child can't fend for himself. This may sound obvious, and I hope it is. For me, it's obvious. But I also remember a great deal of applause when the then left-wing leader Gudrun Schyman exclaimed: Death to the family. Schyman is the antithesis of Christian democracy, but I would like more people to engage politically to make it easier for families to cope with their unique life puzzles. We Christian Democrats have long secured our policies in the family. If parents are given the support they need, increased financial margins and better opportunities to handle both work and family, without political pointers, the risk of social problems is reduced. To give more time to the children and make life easier, we want to see a fully flexible parental insurance policy. Not an insurance policy where Magdalena Andersson or any other politician decides how many days a mother and a father should have with their children, but an insurance policy where the important decision is always made by the children's parents themselves in the way that suits their own unique life puzzle. What is good for the parents will also be good for the children. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-671	Madam President, I would like Live all kinds of families! Madam President, I would like The UN Regional Information Office wrote a month ago that Sweden has the highest child poverty rate in the Nordic countries. The truth is that the gap between poor and rich children is increasing. This in itself makes a greater difference in what children have for access or not to society. This is not just an economic issue; it is a democratic issue – a question of rights. I come from Skärholmen, an area where many welfare workers and many service professionals live – you know those professions that many applauded when the pandemic was at its worst. It is also an area of high child poverty, high overcrowding and unemployment. Many of the most difficult are single people. That is where a levelling-up family policy makes the most difference. But it is not just about family policy but also about housing and labour policy. In Skärholmen you see mothers and fathers who leave their homes in the middle of the night to take shifts or in the middle of the day and then come home late. You see parents studying to secure a better future. There's a lot of people commuting. There are also many stressed parents who may not get it together. Today, society is not adapted to make it easier for these hardworking parents. There is a great need for justice and visibility. It is somewhat distorted when we know that children end up in homelessness because of a non-existent housing policy and inadequate economic life belts, while spreading a little more money on the rich and on businesses. It is politics that has built on the economic bias that is facing us today. Madam President, I would like It's almost Christmas. It is a Christmas celebration that involves a huge consumption spirit where parents take out loans to provide a chimare of prosperity. But sometimes it doesn't work either. It's tough coming back to school when you don't have much to tell. Now we have a budget created by parties that hit the workers hardest, where young people who manage to get a job will do so under very uncertain conditions and where apartments will not be built that will reduce overcrowding or homelessness. It is created by parties who like to talk about crime and punishment but are reluctant to have a cohesive society where children get conditions that are equal for real, even though all research indicates that equal societies lead to less crime. You stand stronger, simply– not only in Djursholm but also in Skärholmen and Haparanda. I had the hope that it would be possible to reverse developments after what had been exposed during the pandemic, in other words that it is important that people do not live crowdedly and that they have secure working conditions and a good working environment to cope with. I hoped that efforts would be made to build the country with what we need to do our part in the climate crisis. Instead, it introduces job tax deduction number 750, which does not benefit the whole. You're not willing to real redistribute. The worst affected are single mothers. That's not very feminist, I'm thinking. The truth is that we face big differences – too big differences for it to be a healthy society. Single people should not have to fight to get maintenance support if necessary, nor be forced to talk to parties who do not put children first. Instead of being exhausted by this, they will have to use their energy to create a better future for themselves and their children. It makes sense if we really want to do it better for families. With this, I refer to our specific opinion.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-683	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the EU's forestry strategy and the Commission's communication on a new forestry strategy for the period from 2021 to 2030. The Commission argues that the strategy aims to address challenges and climate change in order to unlock forest potential for the future. The forest has a very large and important role to play. It plays a major role for the economy, for jobs, for entrepreneurship, for new climate-smart products, food, pharmaceuticals, clean water and for a new fossil-free society. The Commission stresses that the next decade is crucial and that the strategy therefore includes a concrete plan combining legislative changes, financial measures and voluntary commitments. The Commission also emphasises that the strategy is anchored in the European green light and in the EU's biodiversity strategy by 2030. The Commission also argues that the strategy should take into account the central and multifunctional role of forests and the need to increase the growth of sustainably managed forests. The strategy is divided into six areas. In our view, social democrats need protection of forests that are well-chosen throughout the country. Nationally, we need long-term farming that helps to strengthen forest resilience to pests, fungi, storms and droughts. We need growth to create and maintain high natural values and bio-based products and services. For us, it is important to strengthen the competitiveness of existing products and processes. Continuous development of existing processes and products is the basis for a competitive industry. A competitive and profitable industry can invest in developing new processes, products, materials and services that contribute to the development of sustainable forestry. The forest industry is constantly developing towards new markets and new targets for efficiency and sustainability. It is essential to continue developing new bio-based products and services and to be able to replace fossil material products with new renewable, recyclable and biodegradable products. That is the key to sustainable development. To get the right properties for different products, more research is needed on how materials can be made stronger, safer and more malleable. Madam President, I would like EU Member States have different conditions and therefore a variety of farming methods are needed that need to be promoted on the basis of national conditions. The forest is different in the different Member States and has different conditions. It is therefore very important that the Member States should be given room to choose their own management and farming methods without restrictions. In our opinion, it is each Member State that can best ensure at national level all the capacities of the forest, so that they meet with the aim of promoting a varied and sustainable use of the forest. Madam President, I would like The EU has nearly 182 million hectares of forest covering 43% of the land area. In the EU, Sweden, Finland, Germany, France and perhaps the Czech Republic and Austria are usually counted as major forest countries. Both Sweden and Finland have a lot of forest compared to Holland, Denmark and Ireland. The forests are of different natures and forest types and have different characteristics, but the ownership structures also differ. Nevertheless, forests create jobs, improve the quality of life for people and provide an important basis for biodiversity. Sweden's land area is 40.7 million hectares. Of this area, 69 per cent are forest land and 8 per cent are agricultural land. Other open land, such as mountains, marshes and grassy land, accounts for 20 percent. There is a big difference in Europe. No more than 3 per cent of Sweden's surface area is built. There's a lot of difference. Ownership is also radically different from country to country. Here in Sweden, almost half of all forests are owned by private individuals – 320 000. Share companies own a quarter, and the public-state, municipalities, regions and the church- owns a quarter. But even if you calculate forest from productive forest land, lower productive or not productive forest land, it looks different from country to country. There are different species of trees such as cork oak forests, boreal forests, tight forests and European deciduous forests in the various European countries. Comparing between countries is therefore difficult. The ownership perspective also looks radically different. That is why we have to deal with the forestry issue in equal but different ways. We believe that it is extremely inappropriate for the Commission to develop a strategy for controlling different production methods. The introduction of the strategy is well in line with our Social Democratic approach to forest issues, where the importance of balancing climate, biodiversity and the possibility of replacing fossil-based products with new fossil-free products is addressed. The introduction highlights that the future bioeconomy is largely based on active forestry where the forest raw material is to be used primarily in long-lasting products. Of course, residual products can be used as biofuels. So do we. However, when you go down in depth in the questions, the level of detail in the strategy becomes unreasonable from a Swedish perspective. The conditions in Sweden are different from those in many other EU countries, and the strategy largely lacks understanding of the complex and well-built system that we have in Sweden today. In the details, centralization and uniformity shine through. We cannot support that. Finally, the Commission has no insight into the fact that we have come a very long way in terms of minimising waste in the timber industry. We make sure to use the whole tribe and use it for paper pulp, biofuels, building houses, chemicals, viscose, new clothes and so on. In addition, to switch from woodworks on a large scale to wood-free is a process that takes a long time, both in the forest and for the forest industry. It is something that increases and reduces the amount of renewable products on the market and makes the transition to a bioeconomy more difficult. In Sweden, forests and forestry are challenged by a urban mentality without an understanding of the whole. The European Commission also misses the target and ignores the fact that Sweden has managed forests for 100 years while at the same time ensuring forest growth. What is often forgotten is that counties like Västra Götaland 100 years ago almost completely lacked forest because we then overexploited the forest resource. The forest in these areas was used as pasture, cut down and burned up. Sweden 100 years ago was not what it is today. At the time, Sweden was a forest-poor country. There are, of course, things to do even today. But we believe that we are a very rich forest country. The forestry strategy highlights a replanting strategy. We have had this, Madam President, in Sweden for over 100 years. And we welcome the fact that more countries are actually looking at this need.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-704	Madam President, I would like The Environment and Agriculture Committee has examined the EU's new forestry strategy. I think we have landed in a lot of wisdom in our review. The EU says that forests are a national competence. It has been so throughout our time in Europe. Yet we are now repeatedly seeing different strategies and more – such as the EU's forestry strategy that we are now debating, the EU's biodiversity strategy, the land use proposal, LULUCF, the taxonomy regulation and a number of other proposals – where one way or another they want to get into and poke in self-determination over the forest. That is why we have highlighted this report in many wise ways. As has already been pointed out here, there is a danger of centralising this. It can be seen that the EU wants to enter and govern what production methods we use and whether to use continuity forestry or wood-based farming. I am thinking exactly as when it comes to agriculture. There we are talking about conventional and organic farming. It must be up to the user to decide which method fits best. There are advantages and disadvantages to all production systems, so also in the forest. Another concern in this strategy is that it is highlighted when in the year one might be allowed to fell and whether there should be a ban on felling during breeding time. It is quite a long time in many places in Sweden. What would that have the effect on our entrepreneurs? Are they going to stand still? Entrepreneurs in the forest have already put a lot of pressure on the economy. A whole shines with its absence in this strategy. The sustainability aspects that are economic, social and ecological are not taken into account in every way. It looks too much at the nature conservation side of this forestry strategy, and that is unfortunate. We in Sweden, as has been highlighted here before, have demonstrated for a long time that we are sustainable in our use, that we have a sense of wisdom and that we guarantee new growth in the forest thanks to our replanting in our forest. Since 1993, we have been working under the epithet of freedom under responsibility, which has had an incredibly positive impact on biodiversity in the forest. As the Social Democrats highlighted here earlier, it is of course important that we can look at the forest in such a way that we have a holistic approach across Europe. But we need to distinguish between national conditions when it comes to forestry. It was also highlighted here earlier that the forest will do so much in the future. The forest will contribute with new products, substitution effects and a strengthened bioeconomy. But the forest will also contribute to climate change. How does the forest best contribute to climate change? Well, it's because it grows and binds in carbon. There is research from SLU that shows how it is best for the climate to use the forest. Three different scenarios were made over 80 years: that the forest is managed as it is today, that it is not used at all or that it is used more. The answer was clear that when we use the forest more than we do today, it has the best effect on the climate. I think it's incredibly important. That is why it is unfortunate when you look at this forestry strategy where there is a lot of talk about new protection and protection of forests, precisely the debate that we have here in Sweden time and again. We know, on the other hand, that we do not report protection of forests and protection of nature in the same way as the other countries of the European Union do. This means that we are tying rice to our own backs if we are not going to wait in the other countries until they reach the same levels as Sweden. It is incredibly important that we do not destroy ourselves, because we know that the forest looks so different around Europe. We also know historically that the forest has been used very differently throughout Europe. While we have taken responsibility here, ensuring that we have had forests, increased forests and had growth, it has not been as obvious in many countries in Europe. It is also a reason why we stress the importance of being able to decide for ourselves over our own forest. Then we also need to link the aspects with subsidiarity and proportionality linked to the EU's forestry strategy for Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats raised it earlier, and I think that all the speakers here will talk about how important the forest is for Sweden and all the things I raised before, such as how important it is that we have production and what the forest should contribute. That is why I shall say that the following is remarkable, Madam President. Early this spring, Austria, together with some other forest countries, wrote a note to the Commission that it was concerned about the work on the new EU forest strategy. In fact, in the European Council here in Parliament, we had a majority that agreed with the criticisms that were made against this. Nothing happened. This summer another letter was written by Austria and like-minded countries to the European Commission saying that they were very concerned about the appearance of the new forestry strategy. Sweden also chose not to support this. Although the Swedish Government knew that there was a majority in the Swedish Parliament to support this initiative, it chose not to do so. Then there was a government crisis. The Minister for Rural Development disappeared from the Swedish Government, and we got a Minister for Economic Affairs to deal with these issues instead. Since the summer, there have been four meetings in the EU linked to the EU's forestry strategy, and not once has our minister been there to deal with the issues that forests are so incredibly important to Sweden. This is remarkable, Madam President. We are not even trying to go to the meetings to deal with the EU's new forestry strategy, which can have incredible consequences for Swedish forests for a long time to come. I know that at an EU Council meeting in October, I myself raised the issue with the minister present: will the Government be in place this time? You didn't even answer, because of course you knew you weren't going there and you weren't going to be there. I find it distressing. It is a test that you don't care enough about such important issues as the forests mean for Sweden anyway. We need to mark against it, because it must not be accepted. It must not go on like that. I would like to thank my partners, or friends, in the committee for having landed in a good review report. I think we can all stand behind that.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-724	Madam President, I would like Towards the end, John Widegren's speech was a sharp criticism of perhaps especially the Social Democrats, and I think I should respond to it somewhat. It should never be overlooked that the Social Democrats see the importance of forests and industry for the foundation of well-being and climate change, and our entry into this is of course to lift it at the highest possible level. So it has been at Prime Minister level. Our former Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has addressed Sweden's position at the highest possible level, with the Commission and responsible. There should be no doubt about that. It is clear that it is not the Moderates' fault that the Left Party threw dog bones and subjected Sweden to a government crisis, but it obviously affected the work of the government. We cannot ignore that. However, during the autumn, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Director has been directly involved, for example, in a major meeting in Austria on this subject. I believe that Sweden's position is very well known. Knowing Sweden's position on this need not be in any doubt – especially not on the basis of the opinion we are debating here today.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-728	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the input. Yes, the Minister for Economic Affairs was late in the autumn on the scene for a meeting and discussed with like - minded countries. But remember that it happened since early spring, when we started talking about the importance of getting involved in these issues. It is not possible to just say that you take it to the highest level, with the Prime Minister, because that is not an excuse for not being there and conducting these discussions. There are many details that are produced for a long time when it comes to working on these strategies. I understand one thing, and I will still give it to the Social Democrats, Madam President: during the government that was in place when we started this work, there were conflicting data on how the government felt about Swedish forestry. We had a Social Democratic Minister for Rural Development who went down to European meetings and said that Swedish forestry is sustainable. Some time after that, a Swedish Minister for the Environment and Climate from the Green Party went down and said that Swedish forestry is not sustainable. Then it is clear that at EU level one wonders what Sweden's entry into this is. It may even seem that we are not really serious if we cannot even have a united front on the outside on the part of the government. I think this is incredibly problematic, because once again: This is one of the most important issues for the Swedish economy and Swedish prosperity. That's why it can't be handled this badly. It's troubling. I understand that there were contradictions in the government that sat, but that is worrying, Madam President.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-732	Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that we in Parliament have a broad consensus, but it is not just about the strategy. The strategy may be a smaller part; we also have the violently interesting concept of LULUCF, which I think will ultimately be a greater obstacle to Swedish forestry. We also have the taxonomy that has been debated and discussed and that originally excluded both hydropower and forestry as sustainable investments. I now see that the Commission has changed direction, and it is clear that it is essential, above all, to ensure that forests can be used to substitute fossil products – something that we in this House fully agree if necessary.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-734	Madam President, I would like I agree. That is exactly the way it is, and that is why one gets extra worried when there is not enough commitment to all these forestry issues. There are so many different places that you now want to in and in one way or another pick a little in Swedish forestry. They want to poke into something that the Moderates and the Social Democrats agree on works very well, even though it has not been made clear enough by the government's work over the past year. I am also concerned about LULUCF, for example, because if we are to tighten up the figures included in that proposal, this would mean a reduction in felling in Sweden. This would mean a reduction in production, and it might even mean that we get quotas for which to harvest their forests. Then it's gone a long way. That is why I think we should be clear about saying – especially on the part of the government – that we will use our forests less because of this. We will have to return to that debate. Thanks for the line, Isak From!
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-740	Madam President, I would like I note that there is a great deal of agreement on this issue. I could have said about the same thing as Isak From from the Social Democrats and John Widegren from the Moderates have already said, and that is actually what I have written to say. I see that when I compare what has been said with what I have written. We, too, support the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on this issue, and we think it is well balanced. Madam President, I would like Europe is amazing. One might think that millennia of trade, war and movement of people would have evened Europe into a superstate with one language and one way of solving things, but that has not happened. Instead, the states have persisted. Each country has been able to develop its models according to its own conditions and needs, and the countries have been able to learn from each other's successes and mistakes. I believe that this is a strong recipe for Europe's success which we must try to preserve, i.e. to optimise the elements and thus achieve a successful whole. We have also had that with regard to the forest. Between 1990 and 2020, the EU's forest area increased by 10%, so we have a strongly increased forest area in Europe. To a large extent, this has been based on private landowners' initiative, not on the initiative of states or the European Union. Therefore, the forest countries have repeated over and over again that forestry issues must be resolved by each EU country separately. The EU level is also needed, but it must not become a matter of detail and must be coordinated. Yet, as previous speakers have said, there seems to be a built-in dynamic that is pushing towards top-down management and towards increasingly dictated by forest management from Brussels. There is less and less confidence in individual forest countries and individual forest owners. The EU has had a forestry strategy since 1998. It has been revised, but it only applied until 2020. There has therefore been an interest in creating a new version, not least to interact with other EU initiatives such as the Fit for 55 and the EU diversity strategy. In May 2020, the Commission presented a first proposal for such a strategy, and in November this year the Agriculture and Fisheries Council issued its conclusions. It was stressed, as previous speakers have said, that there is a need for more subsidiarity and that there is an imbalance between the Commission's treatment of the various ecological, economic and social functions of forests where the ecological overemphasis is placed at the expense of the others. The European Parliament stressed in October this year that the strategy should bridge national strategies with other EU agricultural and forestry policies and objectives. There must be respect for national self-determination and for private and public forests. In Sweden we have a lot of individual forests, and this applies to many EU countries. It is important that their initiatives remain in place. The model we have in Sweden emphasizes freedom under responsibility but also everyday considerations – we will be better at leaving individual trees or groups of trees. In addition to this, we also have a government strategy, we can say, based on the protection of forests. We've had that for a very long time since the first national parks. It is the combination of these two things that have made Sweden so successful. But the model presupposes that the landowners are given a great deal of freedom and that too abrupt legislative and regulatory changes are avoided. Forest owners must be able to rely on forest policy in order to be able to act in the long term. It is important to be involved and not against forest owners, with increasingly better models for everyday forestry considerations. It will also be complemented by different types of protected areas. The fault that the European Commission is making over and over again in different models and in the current processes – LULUCF, taxonomy and forest strategy – is that, despite very clear and often repeated signals, it does not sufficiently take on board the fact that forestry is a national competence in the first place, that the economic, social and ecological functions of forests complement each other at least as much as they contrast with each other, that the forest countries themselves are much better placed to weigh together the different interests than the European Commission can have and, above all, that the EU forests are largely privately owned and that, therefore, top management is often directly counterproductive because it reduces pluralism, the desire for initiative and investment and long-term sustainability. The EU's proposal for a forestry strategy seems too much to assume that forestry per se is detrimental to biodiversity and climate and to the social function of forests and tourism. In a Swedish context, there is a great deal that clearly indicates the opposite. It is not just us in Sweden who are irritated. As previous speakers have already said, 11 forest countries, with Austria at the forefront, wrote in July this year about the forestry strategy: It clearly lacks understanding of the multifunctional role of forests. It ignores the competence of the Member States. It ignores the Commission's own main objective in the direction of green growth and, at the same time, reduces forests to environmental issues without taking socio-economic aspects into account. This is unacceptable. Sweden, as I said, did not sign. Among the eleven countries that did, however, were Finland, Estonia and Latvia, as well as the two really powerful countries in the EU: Germany and France. I asked the then rural minister, Baylan, why in a written question but did not get an explanation—you can read the answer yourself if you like. Nor were the Swedish Democrats able to obtain a majority for an announcement in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. However, the Government has underlined in retrospect that it essentially agrees with Austria's criticism. In this report, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture also expresses its support for the views expressed by the forestry countries, particularly Austria. We have already heard that Ibrahim Baylan did not attend any of the four meetings of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council dealing with these issues, but it was a good thing that the Prime Minister gave the same message. However, it is important to show that we support other EU countries when they take such initiatives. Cooperation between the countries of the forest itself is extremely important, and this must lead us to stand up when other countries write things that we essentially agree with. I have already said that the position that the Committee on Environment and Agriculture has now drawn up is well balanced. It stresses the need for a new forestry strategy but also stresses the importance of this not circumcise but retains national authority. The committee also stresses that the EU's forestry strategy should be equivalent to other strategies and not subordinate to them. We share the views expressed by Austria and other forest countries. We believe that there are no impact assessments of many of the strategy's proposals. Are these proposals needed? Are they useful? Do they do more harm than good? Do they include duplication of work? How much are they? What is the result of the loss of income? What are the consequences for rural areas? This had to be investigated more balanced and in some cases at all. The committee also wants the forestry strategy to emphasise not only the importance of long-lived wood products – as it does – but also the importance of short-lived forest products, such as forest fuel. For example, in the form of fuel, but also as other products, forest products can play a huge role in replacing other, less renewable materials than those based on forests. Madam President, I would like The development of the forestry sector and the development of a more sustainable bioeconomy are best achieved by giving as much influence as possible to forest owners and to the Member States of Europe. Successful Swedish such solutions can then be adapted and addressed by other countries, both within the EU and worldwide.
i-Cmj6RHvhbiFNwK9iRbB2X8	Madam President, I would like In a 1993 bill, the Parliament established a new forestry policy with two equal objectives for forestry policy, namely production and the environment. In another bill, from 2008, entitled A forest policy in line with time, the government made it clear that the equal goals of production and the environment would remain unchanged. The law's portal clause also stressed that forests are a renewable resource. For many decades, Sweden and the Swedish forestry industry have taken a great responsibility and created sustainable forestry. That Sweden has more than doubled its timber supply in 100 years speaks clearly. Since the forest policy that we call freedom under responsibility was established in 1993, work on biodiversity has gone in the right direction. Many of the forests that today are worthy of protection were planted by our grandparents a few generations ago. Thanks to the 320 000 forest owners in Sweden, we have created the diversity we have today. I thank them for their efforts. Madam President, I would like Sweden is covered by almost 70 percent forest. What is it like in the rest of Europe? Germany, France, Italy and Spain have 30 - 36 percent forests, almost all of which are managed in some way. What is the situation in the Netherlands, from which the driving Commissioner on many forestry issues, Frans Timmermans, comes? They are the worst in the EU and are 11%. Should the EU not demand that the Netherlands replant forests before imposing restrictions on Sweden? There is no legal basis for a common forestry policy in the EU, but these are matters of national decision-making law. This is something that our government and parliamentary parties also say in a coherent choir. The problem is that the Commission is now rounding this up by going through climate, energy and nature conservation policies. The Commission's starting point is the need for a new forest strategy to design and implement a common vision for multi-faceted and sustainable forest management in the EU. Every time the Commission looks at the forestry issue, it moves forward its own positions and reduces national self-determination. It is my firm belief that we cannot impose a forestry policy on the EU's forest countries that is shaped from a point of view where the EU's poor forests have not taken their responsibilities through history. Madam President, I would like The question must be raised as to how the Commission has got its views on forestry in the EU in general and Swedish forestry in particular. Where does the EU get its statistics on Sweden? It is no secret that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reports protection of forests based on its own model that differs from the internationally accepted method used by other EU countries. If Sweden were to use the same method as Germany, we would go from being the worst in the EU to probably being the best. Biodiversity reporting also has its own basis for calculation compared to other countries. We cannot do that in this way. I hope that the government is clear in its regulatory letters to our forestry authorities on how to report in the same way as other EU countries. How else can we compare ourselves to international commitments? Madam President, I would like We see a burst of EU directives falling over Sweden. It will hit hard on Swedish forestry, rural jobs, climate and Swedish self-determination. It concerns the forestry strategy, LULUCF, taxonomics, the Renewables Directive RED and a number of other proposals. In addition to acting as the backbone of Sweden's rural economy, the used forest creates a triple climate benefit. It binds carbon as it grows. It binds coal in wooden buildings after it has been felled. It replaces fossil raw materials and fossil energy. Without Swedish forests and active forestry, Sweden's climate impact would be much greater. This is now threatened by proposals from the European Commission. Sweden cannot accept the very far-reaching proposals presented by the EU that will affect Swedish forestry policy. The proposals will change the successful model for Swedish forestry that Sweden has conducted for a very long time. The proposals and their detailed management will have far-reaching consequences in terms of jobs, services and the possibility of living in rural areas and will go against the vision of stronger, interconnected, resilient and prosperous rural areas in 2040. The proposals will also counteract Sweden's high climate ambitions. Madam President, I would like I will now mention a few positions and decisions that the EU is about to deliver. The EU considers the use of woodlands to be bad. The EU wants to protect 30% of nature, of which 10% is strict. It shall be binding on the Member States. Hunting and fishing shall not take place in protected areas. All primary and old growth forests – prime and natural forests – should be strictly protected, and more should be created via proforestation. This means that you don't usually use the forest at all without it being allowed to grow wildly. A database of all available and potential primary and old-growth forest in each Member State shall be established and for these areas a logging ban shall be introduced. There shall be binding restoration requirements for at least 30% of the seas and land of each Member State inside and outside protected areas. The areas will be restored to, in Sweden's case, pre-industrial times. It should then be remembered that many other Member States have the time for their EU entry as a reference level while Sweden has pre-industrial time. Restoration shall contain all elements of a Member State's natural values, and natural values shall not deteriorate after the restoration has been completed. It will be a new strictly protected area. Binding targets to restore forests in the Member States shall be introduced. There should be common EU legislation on soil protection. In the new EU forest strategy, biodiversity strategy should be clearly prioritised and the main objective of the forest strategy should be biodiversity and climate. There should be binding restoration and protection objectives in the strategy, as I have said. Biomass should be used in accordance with the cascade principle, i.e. politicians should decide what and in what order biomass should be used. The sustainability criteria for biomass and bioenergy in particular RED and taxonomics need to be updated to be in line with the Biodiversity Strategy and Climate Act. The natural CO2 sink in the EU will increase significantly and the protection of sinks will increase. The natural CO2 sink in the EU should be ambitious and legalised. A binding EU biodiversity legislation is to be put in place that applies inside and outside protected areas. You can imagine what the whole cascade of proposals means in total for Swedish forestry. Madam President, I would like The government has had a soft negotiating approach to all these proposals coming from the EU. I think it's been the wrong approach. The government should have been with the other countries protesting against the Commission's proposal, as we have heard here before. A small country like Sweden must join forces with like-minded people even if we do not share each position exactly. Now it is up to the government to show that I am wrong and come home from Brussels with a result that is good for Sweden and Swedish self-determination over the forest. Finally, I would like to wish the Presidents, all the officials and all my colleagues in the committee a real Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-792	Madam President, I would like Our forests have many benefits and provide us with many services. The carbon sink is one of the most important services our Swedish forest provides. Today, it removes more CO2 than our Swedish territorial emissions. If we also include the substitution, we Swedes are largely CO2-neutral thanks to forests and sustainable Swedish forestry. The forest gives us fantastic and high quality raw materials in a variety of forms. Anything that today can be made from oil can also be made from wood. The forest gives us fuel and thus heat. It gives us opportunities to harvest what nature gives in the form of berries, mushrooms and game. We can find recreation and rest. Yes, the list can be made much longer. The forestry industry is one of our largest industries and accounts for a total of around 115 000 jobs. Taxes paid by employees in the forestry industry to municipalities, regions and states are of great importance to the well-being of large parts of Sweden. In total, these taxes finance, for example, 32 000 services in the public sector. Sweden is the world's fifth largest exporter combined of pulp, paper and sawn timber with an export value last year of SEK 145 billion. Forests are therefore one of our most important assets. Unfortunately, however, forests, forest owners and the forest industry are often treated rigidly. For us Swedes, the forest is part of our Swedish identity. That is why, of course, we react when we come from the European Union with touchsticks and try to tell us how to use our Swedish forests. Often these touchsticks come from people who live in countries where you have completely different geography, quite different views of forests and what forestry means. We often come back to the fact that the forests are not mentioned in the EU Treaty. That is something we must point out time and again, as we do with great frenzy in both the Committee on the Environment, Agriculture and the European Council. It was therefore gratifying that Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson highlighted this in his government declaration. However, her representatives and responsible ministers in the Löfven did not always seem to have the same view. Unfortunately, the commitment to Sweden's forest owners and the Swedish forest industry was not always a high priority. The new Social Democratic Government has a lot to prove, but it will certainly get the chance. Unfortunately, Sweden has also, under the S-MP government – as we have heard here before – chosen not to participate in some activities with like-minded forest-rich countries within the EU when they worked together to try to influence the Commission in the right direction. It sends extremely unfortunate signals both to Brussels, to the Swedish forest industry and to the 330 000 Swedish forest owners. The Commission recognises national competences. Nevertheless, they are trying to find other ways in to still influence forests and forestry, and this at a very detailed level. For example, the strategy includes wordings about not using kalhyggesbruk. This really is speaking with a split tongue. Madam President, I would like A forestry strategy may be good, but it must be balanced. I note that there have been improvements in the final version compared to previous drafts and leaked documents. However, there is a long way to go until we have a European consensus on the contribution of forests and the forest industry to a green transition. That is why the question is whether a fully common European forestry strategy is right. As we heard earlier, the forestry strategy is divided into six different areas. The first area is support for the socio-economic role of forests in living rural areas and the promotion of a forest-based bioeconomy within sustainability limits. It sounds good, but if you look at the superscription one more time, at least I get a little confused. In the forestry strategy, the bioeconomy does not get its own title. In the work we are doing in committees and in the European Union, I understand that in all the documents relating to the European Union, every word really means something, and every word should be weighed on a gold scale. I can then interpret this from an EU terminology in no other way than that any of the most important forests do not give the meaning it deserves. Why is that? Well, you just don't have the knowledge or the understanding. This makes it even more worrying to decide on the forest and then make decisions that can have devastating consequences for both the bioeconomy and the transition to a renewable society. It is now a clear sign that the EU will keep its fingers off both forestry and forestry. The strategy presented shows that the apparatus within the EU wants to decide how Member States should manage their own forests. No account is taken of the great differences that exist within the EU in terms of both access to forests and forest management. The strategy is a clear illustration of the gap between Brussels and the individual forest owner and his needs. Moreover, it ignores the views of the European Parliament and the Council on the future of our forests. To quote Mr Pekka Pesonen, Secretary-General of the EU's agricultural cooperation organisation, we must avoid this strategy turning into a tragedy for rural communities. ..................................................... Unfortunately, the strategy fails to highlight the real potential of forests in climate action. Swedish forestry strives for high growth, which means that it also gives a high uptake of CO2. The fact that we can then use the forest to replace CO2 intensive materials is another climate benefit. Some who have been rather high up in the debate in preparation for the strategy are the so-called short-lived products that the forest gives and the criticism of these. To be honest, who wants and can do without the short-lived products, which the European Commission is so strongly devalued in the strategy? I am quite sure that all Commissioners want access to the products. I'm sure everyone in this room wants access to the products. Yes, Madam President, I am sure that everyone in the European Union wants the products. Who wants and can do without toilet paper, kitchen towels and other hygiene products? How would our health care facilities, hospitals etc. manage without the short-lived products that the forest provides? If we're going to realign, how are we going to switch from fossil oil and plastic if we don't use the forest to make paper and cardboard? Again, this shows a great ignorance of both forestry and how trees are used in the forest industry. Another part that has been discussed extensively and bearing on the forestry strategy is the EU's biodiversity strategy, in which we in both the Committee on the Environment, Agriculture and the EU Board have negotiated many wordings in order to get the government's positions where we want. Much of this discussion has concerned the EU's objectives of protection and strict forest protection and what this should mean in reality. According to some leaked documents, as we heard earlier, they were not even allowed to hunt or fish in the strictly protected areas. But they would have to be used for other purposes that leave far greater traces than a fisherman does when sitting on a mountain on a summer evening drinking coffee and fishing perch. Once again, the Commission has shown a startling ignorance, which is, unfortunately, far too common in these matters. Another challenge that we have also heard about before, Madam President, is how to count protected forests and what to count as protected forests. This also leads to conflicts as we do not do the same in the Union. In the strategy, the Commission states that all prime and natural forests must be subject to strict protection – in the first place without there being any definition of what either a prime or a natural forest is. Protect the whole thing, and it's really cool, but you don't know what it is you're supposed to protect. Yes, Madam President, I might be a little bit of a fuss. But there are so many wordings that show such an enormous lack of knowledge, which again makes it relevant to ask whether we really should have a common forestry strategy in Europe. It also writes about reforestation and afforestation that gives forests with biodiversity. They say that they want to reforest urban areas and agricultural areas, among other things. For Sweden, we would instead need more agricultural area in order to have a higher degree of self-sufficiency and more domestic food. Reforesting is certainly not a problem in the Swedish countryside, where farm after farm closes. It is exactly the opposite, Madam President – we are growing in when old fields and pastures are growing again because they are no longer cultivated. 30 years ago we had over a hundred dairy farmers in my municipality of Årjäng. Today we have four left. It worries me infinitely more than the fact that agricultural land is not being reforested. Madam President, I would like I have had a rather negative tone in my speech, as have previous speakers. I stand for it in full. If we are to have good conditions for sustainable forestry and a sustainable transition in real life, someone with far greater forest competence than the European Commission must be in the driver's seat.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-815	Madam President, I would like Climate change and biodiversity collapse must be stopped. According to climate scientists IPCC, the climate crisis cannot be halted unless we also stem the natural crisis. Climate and biodiversity are interrelated. Business as usual is not possible in forestry. The European Commission has drawn attention to this in its forestry strategy, which is non-binding and which we are debating here today. The EU's strengthened climate ambition received broad support here in Parliament, although the Green Party would have liked to have seen higher ambitions. EU climate action affects all sectors of society, including forestry. I would particularly like to address Peter Helander here, who, in the speaker's seat just now, felt that the EU's climate policy should not affect Swedish forestry. Will climate policy affect all sectors except the forestry sector? Is that reasonable? The EU's climate policy and the pursuit of the Paris Agreement must have an impact on forestry, just like all other sectors of society. The European Commission's forestry strategy will be crucial for developing the role of forestry to enable the EU to meet the climate challenge. It is not a question of detailed control, but of a non-binding approach. Let me focus on some important issues of forestry policy. I think that these three issues would be more of a matter for the forest debate. I want to start with the forest damage. Their scope has increased. Do we call it sustainable? In northern Sweden, the damage situation from törskate fungi and other fungi is so alarming that the practical management advice in forestry has now been abandoned. It is said that it is not possible to plant forests. In 20% of the area, the forest dies. Is it sustainable? The latest damage report from the Swedish Forest Agency shows the condition of the damage. Advice and farming methods must be changed. Large bare ground surfaces and one-sided planting material are very risky for rejuvenation. Climate change is, of course, a driving force behind development. The conclusion is that the adaptation of forests to climate change is much more urgent than has already been demonstrated in the debate. Adaptive management must be implemented in the practical work. We must have forestry methods that provide safe regrowth. Forestry must change and become sustainable. My second point is that forestry destroys infrastructure for millions. Do we call it sustainable? The Forest Board has produced a report that shows that race and erosion can fell trees and electricity lines, block roads and destroy railways and buildings. Excavation near a slope can create a breed far away from the felled area, and it can only happen after several years. Often the ground collapses after heavy rain or snow melting. It's damage for millions of dollars. The number of race and erosion injuries has increased sharply. Droughts and forest fires are expected to have an even greater impact. Forestry is affected by climate change. It must therefore change and adapt to climate change. A third point concerns the profitability of forest owners. Profitability is falling sharply for individual forest owners. Do we call it sustainable? The Green Party sees concerns that such a large part of the forest debate takes place without a rural perspective. The issue of a lack of profitability in private forestry must be addressed. The profitability of individual forest owners has gradually deteriorated, according to Skogforsk. Many forest owners want to hand over their forest to the next generation in a more valuable condition than when they took over the farm. It is not self-evident that today's model of kalhyggesbruk where forest owners are in the clutches of the forest industry is the best way to increase the value of the forest. Forestry must change and become more sustainable. The European Commission's proposals must have a greater impact on our forestry policy. We need to have a new forestry team. The Green Party does not agree with the committee's position, and I do not agree with any of the gentlemen who have spoken before me. There is much talk about the fact that a common forestry policy in the EU would hinder Swedish forestry. In fact, however, there is no mention of a common forestry policy, nor is it included in the Treaties of the European Union. The EU's forestry strategy should not take power from us in Parliament. Of course, we must be inspired by it and see how we can change our forestry so that we can meet the climate challenge and the demands of the natural crisis for the protection of biodiversity. However, there are now so many people who have said that the EU will affect Swedish forestry very much that I believe that most of the parties here in Parliament are beginning to believe it. The committee writes in its opinion that it is inappropriate for the Commission to try to control different forest production methods. But that's not true. There will be no question of European governance. There is a consensus in Parliament and in the EU that forestry policy is national. On the other hand, Sweden must fulfil its international commitments for the climate and for animals and nature, and that is why our forestry policy needs to be changed, as I have said. The committee also does not share the Commission's view that the strategic planning of forests is lacking in the EU Member States. Yeah, me and the Green Party. There is an incredible amount of improvement potential in Swedish forestry and the Swedish forest management. I have mentioned the regrowth and that we should reduce the risk of race, erosion and flooding. I have mentioned biodiversity. Today it is common for forests with extremely high natural values to be cut down. It is a matter of course that we in Sweden should save the finest prime forests. The committee also questions the creation of a comprehensive data collection structure in the EU. We in the Green Party fully agree with that. Sweden is at the forefront of data collection, and here we believe it is important that Sweden is involved in contributing. The committee then claims that this has been reduced to environmental considerations without regard to socio-economic aspects. This is serious! Do we not understand in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture that the basis for forestry is actually that we have forests and a strong ecosystem that is robust and works? With climate change and threats to biodiversity, we need greater natural consideration for long-term sustainable forestry in Sweden. It is also very critical of the cascade principle. This really upsets me. We cannot make toilet paper out of Sweden's prime forests. We can't use the best timber to make paper. It is a matter of course that we should use the forest's resources in a smarter way, that we should use timber and fine raw material to build more wooden houses in Sweden. It is part of our climate strategy. It is also obvious that we should become even better and more innovative when it comes to reusing all kinds of forest products so that we can make that toilet paper out of paper that may have been used one, two, three, four or ten times before it finally becomes toilet paper. It is the policy's task to create good conditions for a sustainable circular bioeconomy with high climate and environmental benefits. Then the forest products need to be used more sustainably and many times. Finally, Madam President, protecting the natural values we have in Swedish forests is a matter of business. It's a business-critical issue. If the EU and the rest of the world believe that Swedish forestry should be conducted with more consideration of nature, that mountain forests should be protected and that prime forests should be allowed to remain, these views will also be able to be converted into purchase requirements for products from the Swedish forest. Then it becomes a kind of hygiene factor to protect the mountain forests and conduct a forestry with greater environmental and climate benefits to ensure Swedish competitiveness and Swedish forest exports.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-840	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for her speech. I wrote down so many questions that I barely know where to start. Maria Gardfjell says that I am saying that EU climate policy should not affect Swedish forestry. I do not think that either I or anyone else who has been in the speaker's seat today has said so. We have said: Who will be in charge of Swedish forestry? Maria Gardfjell also says that the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture does not understand. Only the Green Party understands the real situation. Who's gonna decide? That is the question. The forest damage is increasing and we need to adapt to climate change and use other forestry methods, but is it not Sweden and the Swedish forest owners who will decide that? Is it really up to the EU or the Green Party to decide? This is a business-critical issue for forest owners," says Maria Gardfjell. I have not met a forest owner who thinks that the EU's forestry strategy is good for the business structure of the Swedish forest industry and the Swedish forest industry. Should it not be Sweden and, above all, the forest owners themselves who judge the business? Is the EU really going to do that, over the head of forest owners? A new forestry team needs to be created," says Maria Gardfjell. What does the Green Party want to add to the Forest Protection Act? Does the Green Party want the state to regain detailed control of the Swedish forestry industry? Are we going to move away from what we call voluntary activity under responsibility and go back to what we had in the past, a strict management of detail and regulation of forestry? Does Maria Gardfjell and MP think it works badly today?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-845	Madam President, I would like There were many questions from Peter Helander, and I thank them all and will try to answer as many as I can. Me and Peter Helander and our two parties have been in negotiations throughout the autumn and all winter, and we have discussed and tried to chisel out a common strategy for Swedish forestry policy. It is not the whole of Swedish forestry policy that has been involved in these negotiations, but it is the parts that the forest investigator raised, i.e. those that deal with the ownership and protection of our nature. We stated in our common wording that the forest worthy of protection should be protected. It is written in the product that the Center Party and the Green Party have signed up for and left to the Swedish Parliament. It is exactly the same thing that is also in the material from the European Commission, I would say. I think it is important to address the economy linked to forestry. I mentioned that Skogforsk has clearly shown that the profitability of individual forest owners is falling very strongly. This is a huge problem, because soon the forest owners in Sweden will not be able to afford either forest conservation or conservation. One of the most important parts, where the Green Party has really put its foot down and made clear proposals, is that the conservation that our forest owners in Sweden contribute should pay off. That's what we're gonna pay for. But the Center went with the Moderates and said no to it in the budget vote.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-850	Madam President, I would like The protected forest is to be protected. I don't think anyone's gonna argue with that. Then it's about the level of how much forest we're supposed to protect. Should it not be the case that it is we in Sweden who decide what is to be protected and not the EU? Shouldn't we own these questions ourselves? Why should we give up the right to decide? This brings me directly to the issue of reporting. Does the Green Party think that we should report in the same way as all other countries do and use the model that IUCN has developed and that other countries use so that we can compare ourselves internationally? Does the Green Party think that we should change our biodiversity reference level so that it is consistent with other countries' reference level so that we can compare ourselves there too? The Environmental Protection Agency wrote in its answer when it had been asked that all other countries make mistakes and cheat and that we should therefore not do as they do. Perhaps it is not a good argument when comparing ourselves internationally to accuse other countries of cheating. I am a little interested in this, because it is quite important if we protect the most forest in the EU or if we protect the least forest, and that depends on how we report. What does the Green Party think about that?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-854	Madam President, I would like I took note of one thing when Peter Helander made his speech, and it was that he stressed particularly much that the Commissioner responsible for these issues comes from the Netherlands where there is no forest. He referred to Timmermans. In fact, the Commissioner responsible for these questions, Mr Virginijus, was here in Parliament and visited us in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture this year. The question of how it is measured and weighed in different ways was raised in a question to him. Maybe it was Peter Helander who asked that question. There is an interest from the European Commission, but the same interest also exists from us here in the Swedish Parliament, that we should have a good report that works. On behalf of the Green Party, we tasked the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, when we were in the government, with reviewing this and making suggestions on how we can account even better than we do. IUCN is the international conservation organisation, and it is also a member of the environmental organisations. I am very much in favour of Peter Helander talking well about environmental organisations. When it comes to the important issue of protecting forests, I think we need to be very careful to remember that we have a world-unique forest in Sweden along our mountain chain, our mountain forest. It must be protected.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-858	Madam President, I would like Now that the Green Party and Maria Gardfjell have gone into opposition, I think I need to give Maria a line. When I listen to Maria Gardfjell, I agree with much of what she says from the speaker's seat. What becomes a little counterproductive is that most of what Maria Gardfjell says is about the national perspective. What should we decide on in Sweden? What influence should the EU have on forests? After all, we have agreed that forestry policy is national legislation. The EU has a competence in terms of environmental and climate objectives, but it is Sweden that will decide how to ensure biodiversity and how to ensure the best possible climate benefits from forests. When you read the EU's forestry strategy and go into the details of how, when and why different efforts are to be made, it becomes difficult for us because we know that the EU has repeatedly tried to steer this. Where are the decisions to be made? Is it the landowner in Värmland or Västerbotten, together with the forestry authorities, who will take care of this with freedom under responsibility, or is it best managed from Brussels? It feels like Maria Gardfjell and the Green Party repeatedly fall into the fact that it is probably best that Brussels has a decisive influence. We don't think so.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-863	Madam President, I would like I have also been negotiating forestry policy with Isak From recently and not just with Peter Helander. In fact, we are very much in agreement that the Swedish individual forest owners should have a clearer role in the work, but they should also be paid for the conservation benefits they contribute. Now the Moderates, KD and SD and with a silent consent from the Center Party have made it impossible for the forest bill we have presented to be able to pay for. From the Environmental Party we think it is very important that Sweden has a good forestry law in the future. The forestry law we have today was adopted in 1993. That was even before Sweden joined the EU. A little more, however, we should build our forestry law on so that we ensure that the strategies that exist for both biodiversity and climate change have an impact on our forest sector. I wonder if the Social Democrats do not overinterpret the EU's forestry strategy a little and do it slightly consciously because there has been such massive criticism of the EU from the Swedish forest industry. Is it not true, Isak From, that the EU's forestry strategy is non-binding? And what does that really mean?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-867	Madam President, I would like We have seen so-called non-binding strategies in several areas, which ultimately renders their impact on the Member States of the European Union. I think that is what fundamentally causes one to fear that it will affect the ability to manage one's own forestry. If there are errors, if you make the wrong choice in Sweden, if you plant the wrong wood d kind or if you suffer from storm or drought, it is the Swedish forest owner but also the national competence that should handle it. The same applies if there is drought in a Spanish cork oak forest. Then we think that it is Spain itself that should decide how it should be handled. We think that the strategy goes too far into individual details and removes its own responsibilities. We can also clearly see that our Swedish ownership is very different from that of other forest nations. It is even very different from Finland. In Sweden we have a large share of private forest owners. They have managed their forest through generations and have made good choices and perhaps at some point bad choices. But then it is up to the individual forest owner and the national legislation to deal with it. We do not think that Brussels should have too much influence in this area.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-869	Madam President, I would like Forests play a very important role in climate change. We know that we can replace various products, plastics and other oil products, with products from the forest. It's called substitution. But we also know that carbon storage is extremely important. And the protection of biodiversity is part of the climate work with forests. In fact, many of the forestry methods we use in Sweden today are not sustainable. We sacrifice a little too much of the carbon layer when we plow up, within quotation marks, and harvest the forests today. It is important to find new forestry methods that allow us to retain more carbon in the soil when we use it. It is also important to remember that forests have cultural significance for many Swedes. Around 300 000 people in Sweden are forest owners, and many of them are family entrepreneurs. In Sweden there is a great commitment to the forest. Many Swedes feel that the forest is an important part of our culture and are proud of it. Not only do the forest owners think so, but also the rest of the Swedes. Is it something that the Social Democrats have forgotten? Is the forest not important for other things than the forest industry, but also for the reindeer industry and the tourism industry? Sweden must undoubtedly take a better holistic approach to the whole forestry policy. But, of course, I think that climate policy from the European Union must be able to influence.
i-7VATLWrfLY9vMn6F6ryfjs	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your speech. As regards Sinkevičius from Lithuania, we noted that Lithuania signed Austria's first letter in March. When almost exactly the same thing was to be signed in July, Estonia, Latvia, Germany, France and Finland signed, but Lithuania did not sign. It obviously took account of Commissioner Sinkevičius. I was just noticing, and I think it was for the sake of their chosen person. I want to get to this with storing coal in our forests. I would argue that Sweden stores most coal in the forests of EU countries. At least I don't know any country that stores more. This is because we have increased the growth in Swedish forests by planting more forest and by using processed material, which requires that you plant and do not have natural rejuvenation; then it becomes the same tree and not the most plant trees that come forward. In fact, it is the opposite in the case of continuum forestry. One removes the most plant trees, because they are the largest, leaving them that are smaller. In this way, in large parts of Norrland, forests slowly but surely impoverished, from a forest growth point of view and from a timber point of view. As a result, from 1948 on, it was moved to the local market. There were clearly mistakes, and we have improved a lot after that. But we have done so on our own grounds. We have learned ourselves and, of course, we can learn ourselves about adaptation to climate change. But fires and many other injuries, for example, have always existed. An important thing in terms of forest fires is to have forest roads and to have an active, not inactive, use. My question is about profitability. You get it by using the forest, not by not doing it.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-878	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the question from Mats Nordberg. I certainly agree that we must have a very strong focus on forestry, the used part of the forest. It is also part of the responsibility of forestry to protect valuable nature. It's part of forestry. There is no protection on the one hand and forestry on the other. It is part of each forester's responsibility to engage in both forest conservation and conservation. 70% of our country is forest. And it is quite right that forest growth has increased in Sweden. Now we also see some backsides with the methods used. In my speech, I particularly raised the fact that much of the forests in Norrbotten and Västerbotten, the young forests, are now suffering forest damage. It's not just moose; there you've shot off a lot of moose. It is mainly about the thorny fungus and other fungi. There are about a dozen mushrooms that hit the forest tremendously hard. Precisely the methods where there has been greater growth with refined plant material, dense plantings and so on have worked until now, when we get climate change. Now those methods don't work. What do the Swedish Democrats and Mats Nordberg think we should do then? Should we not, as the European Commission says, have more environmentally adapted methods? I would say that it is a question of clean methods, but it is also a question of methods in the field of horticulture.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-881	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We should be able to use a wide range of methods. I do not agree that we are now suffering disasters that have not existed before. Forestry has always been affected by various disasters. It comes in waves, but it comes more now that it gets warmer than it may have done for a long time. Active forestry is important. I agree with the everyday considerations of forestry, which means that a forester is responsible for both forestry, i.e. the management of trees to obtain wood, and forest management. Everyday consideration is also about ensuring that there are no deep tracks and all the things that make nature heal and adapt as it happens. We talk a lot about the mountains today. That's good. But we have always done that in Swedish nature conservation. Already in the early 1900s we started to set off large national parks, and they are located in the mountains. When you split what was called Assi Domain to Fastighetsverket and after a number of remarkable tours to Sveaskog, you moved what was considered to be most protective to Fastighetsverket. And now they want to protect even more in that particular area. As far as the conservation and prevention of species extinction is concerned, I would say that it does not serve any purpose. We have old spruce forest near the mountains and in the interior of Norrland. These are the most protected and largest areas we have. But species have disappeared in the transition zone between agriculture and forestry and because of old treatments in agriculture. There we would have to do a lot more, and we are doing a lot more. But there will never be a focus on that in the debate. Isn't that cool enough for the Green Party?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-886	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Protecting the mountain forests is of great importance. It's 100 miles of continuos forest. It is known internationally as the Amazon of Sweden. I was very pleased with the question of whether it is not cool enough for the Green Party to look at how to promote nature in other parts of the country. Absolutely! It's super cool. It's actually so cool that it's in the forest bill, and it's thanks to the Green Party. We have moved into the bill that a review of the Forest Protection Act is needed to lower the requirement for foresters to plant. We are not going to force forest owners to plant forests all the way to the edge of the field, but we are going to open up the possibility of creating brows. Imagine how important it would be if all forest owners had the opportunity to create brows between field and forest. It is important for biodiversity, for bird life, and it is incredibly good for moose, who may have a better environment. You know that the pine tree is the sixth most delicious food for an elk, but all the other things that are no longer in the forest, the rice, the deciduous trees and so on will thrive in the brows. Then I think the forest damage will be reduced. This is super cool and really something that the Green Party is pushing hard.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-891	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell often talks about research reports, scientific reports, newspaper articles and so on. She is careful to build on knowledge. Why, then, should we take inspiration, Maria Gardfjell, from people and forces, not least within the European Commission, which so clearly demonstrates so much ignorance about forestry, about what it looks like within the EU? It does not appear that there is such a great diversity within the Union, but it seems that the European Commission has a common picture of forests looking exactly like this, even though there are so many differences within the Union. Why should we take inspiration from these, Maria Gardfjell?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-894	Madam President, I would like When EU Environment Commissioner Virginijus Sinkevičius was here, he highlighted the importance of Sweden being a Member State of the EU that contributes a great deal of knowledge to the European Commission. He thanked us especially for that. There is now a need for increased competence in the issues. I would not fail the competence of the European Commission more than I would fail someone else's competence. What is important when we look at the basis for developing our forestry policy is about climate change and biodiversity. There is scientific evidence, including from the IPCC, in the field of climate change. There are also research panels, which really show that there is a total consensus in the world on climate issues. They form the basis for the EU's positions on climate policy. In the area of biodiversity, there is the Ipbes Research Panel. They are also extremely valuable for the very basis that the European Commission has produced. It is absolutely crucial that the decisions we make in Parliament, and the decisions that the EU makes, are made on a scientific basis.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-897	Madam President, I would like In spite of this, Maria Gardfjell makes a statement that really is not based on either knowledge or scientific basis when she says, in her own expression, that we are making toilet paper out of timber. We do not make toilet paper out of timber in Sweden. Timber is used for long-lasting products. Then it becomes residues from timber because logs are not square but round. Then it will be automatically residues. Paper pulp is made of pulp wood. We can't just pick timber out of the woods, we have to clear and cull. Of course we should take care of what is given when we cull. When we can use it to make paper pulp, of course it should be done. We don't make pulp out of timber. As I mentioned in my speech, Maria Gardfjell is doing the same thing as the European Commission, which is devalues the short-lived products that we so badly need, not least in the transition. What should we in Environmental Party Sweden use in the conversion instead of products from the forest, if we are really going to change?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-902	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. What upsets me is that the Christian Democrats and other parties in Parliament who support the line that is against the European Commission are saying no to the cascade principle, as it is called. It is a question of making an effective use of natural resources. What really upsets me is that Sweden has such a situation that we can still make toilet paper out of prime forests. It's done. Unfortunately, really fine forests with high natural values are harvested in Sweden. Some of it'll be toilet paper. What is needed for the forest to contribute higher environmental and climate benefits is that we get more long-lasting products. There, the construction of wooden houses is extremely important, but we also need to ensure that the small fibres that come from the forest are used many times. It is precisely by getting a circular bioeconomy strategy that we can maximise the use of forest products while contributing to biodiversity, while at the same time making efforts for climate adaptation and at the same time making forestry more diverse and creating better conditions for individual forest owners to have a better economy. That's what the Green Party wants.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-906	Madam President, I would like It is clear that these issues generate commitment. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying, however, that if you ask the Swedish forest owners, I think that a very few people think that the Green Party is the guarantor of strong ownership. I am terribly sorry, the Center Party, but you cannot negotiate forest and property rights with the Green Party and land in that it becomes a property right that strengthens Swedish forest owners' ownership. For the Green Party, ownership is the same as the state having a lot of money to give to individual forest owners who are no longer allowed to use their forests. That's remarkable. Here the Green Party has said that we need to think better about the individual profitability of forest owners. Yeah, I agree. But what happens in the mountain area where there are already protected forests with 7 000 individual forest owners who would be affected if the Environmental Party got its way to protect all the remaining mountain forest? Moreover, what will happen to their opportunities on the day they no longer have their forest to get new capital to develop their activities? It is a question of continuing rural development in these areas when the state will instead own the forest and it will no longer be used. I'd like some answers.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-909	Madam President, I would like I think John Widegren is wrong about the Green Party. We're on the side of the small forest owners. As far as the mountain forest is concerned, we had very interesting negotiations with the Center Party and the Social Democrats. I really enjoyed talking to the Center Party and the Social Democrats about these issues, because we made progress. It was not the Forest Investigation's proposal to protect the mountain forest that went through by force. What went through was that the forest owners who are in the mountain area if and when they want to receive compensation for their forest, and they do not have to hand over ownership to the state. They can continue to own their land themselves. They can hunt and fish. They can take wood and perhaps also harvest a little – just enough timber to make a small cottage. We reviewed the nature conservation provisions in the discussion to achieve a protection of the forest that is more adapted to the mountain-side forest owners. Large parts of the mountain forest are not allowed to fell, and it is not profitable to harvest it. In addition, we think it is reasonable to be able to obtain the compensation from the state to which you are entitled. Then money must also be set aside for it in the budget, which the Moderates did not do.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-913	Madam President, I would like No, the Moderates don't spend money on this, because we don't believe it. It's no harder than that. We think it is more important for Swedish forest owners to own and use their forests. The EU's new forestry strategy talks a great deal about protecting more nature. The Green Party also talks very often about protecting more nature than today. And if there are very high natural values, it is obvious that we should protect them. But is there a limit for the Green Party when it comes to how much forest we should actually take out of production? Or is the Green Party prepared to perhaps release protection on something that we have protected before if you find something with higher natural values? Otherwise, like many other proposals, this proposal will lead to a reduction in our production. Then it is good for Swedish forest owners and Swedish forest industry who invest a lot of money to know that they will reduce production in the forest, not increase it. The EU forestry strategy says that we should have increased production, although it is actually counterproductive, because the proposals in it lead to the very opposite, just as the proposals in the EU's Farm-to-Fork strategy lead to a reduction in production rather than an increase in production. But is there a ceiling for the Green Party when it comes to how much land we should take out of production? And does this mean that we will reduce forest production in Sweden?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-918	Madam President, I would like The Green Party believes that Sweden should comply with the international conventions that exist for the protection of biodiversity. That's what the Green Party thinks. That is the ceiling we propose. I think the issue of increased production is very important, because we have a huge challenge ahead of us in the climate challenge. We must make better use of forest products there. The very best way is probably what is called the cascade effect, to which the Moderates say no. It is about using forest resources more efficiently. This means, of course, that we may need to have sustainable growth in forestry itself. That's what the Green Party thinks. Increased sustainable growth means, for example, that we will carry out forestry where we actually get a regrowth and not on the 20 per cent of the area in northern Sweden where we do not get any regrowth. I think this is one way of increasing growth significantly. Another point that I think is important and which the Green Party wants to highlight is the circular bioeconomy. We need to improve the recycling, recycling and recycling of resources, so that the wood raw material is not used once and burned in a heating plant, but that it may have been a number of products before it finally ends up in the heating plant. It must have been a number of products before it becomes toilet paper. Increasing the recycling and re-use of resources is what creates a circular economy.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-923	Madam President, I would like As the President has just said, we are going to debate the report of the Committee on Employment on Category 13 Equal opportunities and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. I would first like to mention a few words about the budgetary process itself. The Riksdag has set the framework for expenditure area 13 to 167 million less than the Government has proposed in the budget bill. This means changes in relation to the budget proposal for two of the appropriations. These changes do not concern the part of the expenditure that I intend to touch on in my speech today, namely gender equality. However, as a result of the decision of 24 November, we Social Democrats are giving a special opinion and refer to our reservation in the FiU1 report. Unfortunately, the budget decided by Parliament on 24 November is not identical to the budget proposal. And I'm saying unfortunately, because it would have been better if it were. However, more than 98 per cent of the Government's draft budget has been supported by the Riksdag. Less than 2% is the deterioration that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats managed to agree on, and yet it is generously counted. Friend of order would probably say less than 1 percent. However, the important observation is that the Social Democratic Government governs largely the budget bill presented by Magdalena Andersson to the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like This is important and interesting, because as far as Category 13 is concerned, in everything the committee supported the proposals of the budget proposal except for the two appropriations that the right-wing parties – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats – have reduced. And when it comes to gender equality, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs fully supports government policy. In this decision, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs means the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, because the other parties refrain from taking positions and instead explain their considerations in specific opinions. It is therefore a rather different situation, one could say, and I am really looking forward to the speeches of the representatives of the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Yes, the fact that the right parties support the Government's equality policy could be an opportunity to exult, but I do not think that would be a good thing. I think it might be premature. When the right parties have come over the 100th anniversary of the introduction of democracy, I think they will return to their reactionary view of equality. I may be wrong, but whoever's alive will see. That is what I wanted to say about the budget decision itself. Now I'm going to talk about equality. I believe, as I said, that it is important in the debate on gender equality to highlight this 100th anniversary of democracy that we are now celebrating. Two of Parliament's parties can stretch a little extra today. It is the Social Democrats and the Liberals. 100 years ago, the Liberals, together with us Social Democrats, stood on the right side of history. What is happening today with the Liberals, Madam President? But 100 years ago we who were on the side of democracy won, and the Right lost. The first great step towards an equal society was taken despite the resistance of the right. Many steps have been taken after that, despite the resistance of the right. We still have a long way to go. Although today's debate looks like the right has given up its opposition, Madam President, I would nevertheless like to raise the finger of warning. If you look around the world, you can see how reactionary forces gain ground and how democracy and gender equality are pushed back. Unfortunately, the examples are numerous and are found in all parts of the world. Europe is not spared. Developments in Hungary and Poland, for example, terrify. In the United States, Trumps's polarizing policy has affected both gender equality and democracy. So the examples are many. Such forces may be divided among themselves and may even be enemies of each other. We are dealing with extremists of various kinds. It could be Islamists or other religious extremists. It could be nationalists. There are different varieties of totalitarian ideologies which, despite their contradictions, have a lot in common. Resistance to equality and democracy unites. It is serious with the backlash against equality that various reactionary forces gain success with. Those of us who stand up for equality and democracy must resist. It is basically the same fight as it was 100 years ago. Some arguments and rhetoric have been repacked. One example is when traditional resistance to women's rights turns into campaigns against so-called gender ideology. But, Madam President, many of the arguments are the same as they were 100 years ago. Anyone who has listened to the Swedish Democrats when they talk about how women are unable to think rationally and do not understand difficult words that the budget might think it was transferred 100 years back in time. But it is a contemporary interior from how Swedish democrats view gender equality. Although the challenge we have from the right is serious, it is well known, and we can take that fight even if some rhetoric has changed. We know the right, Madam President. Madam President, I would like Today we have a new challenge. The threat comes not only from traditional sources. The women's movement around the world is facing a growing backlash from neoliberal and relativist currents. Organizations and people with a supposedly progressive and radical image challenge the success of the women's movement. Identity politics from the left and superindividualistic neo-liberalism form a common front. It is about the view of prostitution, the view of surrogate motherhood and even bizarre views such as the absence of women. This is a major challenge, as it is new. Those of us who stand up for equality need to learn a new argument. Organisations and people we have previously seen as fellow players are today opposed. This is a phenomenon that infiltrated both anti-racist organisations as well as parts of the LGBTQ movement and well-known and respected organisations such as Amnesty. To have to repeat in 2021 the obvious that human trafficking must not occur is crazy and that women and women's bodies cannot be sold or bought, that children are not a right that can be bought anywhere ever as little as sex with a partner is a right that can be bought and consumed as any commodity. In Sweden this is still in its infancy, so we can with a resolute resistance put an end to this now. Unfortunately, the situation is worse in many parts of the world. Unfortunately, those who represent this new threat to gender equality have a great deal in common with the extreme right. One such thing is how to treat and harass opponents. With a high tone and with threats and hatred, they try to scare those who stand up for equality into silence. We must never accept that, Madam President. Another thing is the idea that there are no women. Here, too, you look like the extreme right. It is a similar argument used by the extreme right when one thinks that there are no classes and therefore no class contradictions. Of course, if gender as a concept is erased, there is no gender power system either. How, then, are we to be able to carry out gender equality work at all? Who would benefit from this is not hard to figure out. Whoever would lose is just as obvious. Kajsa Ekis Ekman has highlighted these problems in a commendable way in her book About Sex. What should we, who stand up for equality and democracy, do? Well, we will of course continue with social analysis that sees both class and gender. Of course, we will stand up for the right of all people to live their lives to the full regardless of gender and sexual orientation. The fact that patriarchal society is at the root of inequality with its gender power system is essential if we are to achieve the objective of gender equality policy. The fact that the invisibility of women in the same way is an obstacle must also be self-evident. The fight for equality is never a threat to anyone – quite the opposite. In an equal society, we are all winners regardless of gender or sexual orientation. We must also bear in mind that the work on gender equality applies to all policy areas. When we fight criminal gangs, it is also a struggle for equality and democracy. The gang consists of young men with a destructive man ideal and a terrible view of women. If you romanticize this type of perception, for example in music, it is a threat to equality. Defending or glorifying such a human view is also an example of how supposedly progressive gender equality and democracy do a great disservice. This also applies to the fight against oppression of honour, which in all forms, regardless of religious or cultural contexts, is a threat to equality and democracy. This applies to men's violence against women who can neither be understood nor combated without seeing the structures behind them, without seeing the man and the woman. This applies when the argument on inclusion is based on excluding half of humanity. This is true in the world of work when we are going to overcome the pay differentials which, with surgical precision, always affect women. Without gender-disaggregated statistics, this work becomes impossible. This applies both to the main objective of gender equality policy, that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives, as well as to all six objectives. So hold on and hold out all of you who are passionate about democracy and equality! Work continues. Resistance is partly new, partly old. But our mission is the same.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-955	Madam President, I would like Then I will make my premiere in this House on behalf of the Committee on Employment. I'm going to talk about gender equality, which is something I'm very happy to do. This is, of course, about so much more than what is contained in this report, but much is also covered, such as economic equality and a life free from violence. I am also going to say something about values and attitudes. At the beginning of the report, the committee examines the government's evaluation of gender equality policy objectives and targets, and it notes that progress is being made – but it is certainly far from good. The latter is my choice of expression, not that of the committee. Some performance indicators are managers in the public sector and women's pay as a proportion of men's pay, which leads me into the field of economic equality. We know that Swedish women still have an average of 77.7 per cent of men's total income. This leads to an average of SEK 3.2 million lower income over a lifetime, which has remained unchanged since 1995. And the Swedish authorities are contributing to this development, says the Commission for Equal Living Income in its first interim report. Although in relative terms women's earnings have actually increased more than men's in recent times, the gap in life's income remains the same. Why is that? Well, it's because men have more income from capital – that is, they save more and own more – and that taxes on capital are lower than taxes on income once you put the money down. Madam President, I would like Therefore, it was a very stupid idea that came from the government some time ago, about increasing the tax on ISK accounts. Instead, the Center Party wants tax-free savings on these accounts up to a certain amount and then a very low tax. All the ways in which women save more and increase their ownership are good. Another sign that women are not financially independent is that women today actually refrain from seeking divorce. Many times there is simply no money to manage on your own – and that in Sweden in 2021. I'm not even talking about relationships where violence is involved. I'm talking about other relationships, other marriages. The Center Party wants to remove the divorce fee. It is of little help, but it is still an important signal. One of the clearest reasons for financial inequality is, of course, parental insurance, or rather the uneven take-out in parental insurance. During the pandemic, we all hailed the heroes of welfare health professionals, who we know are a large proportion of women. It could have been hoped that the withdrawal of vab, the compensation for the care of children, would be more equal, but no – women still take out a majority of the days. I remember that Försäkringskassan just over a year ago, at the beginning of the pandemic, went out with a press release and said: Look, how good – gender equality has increased when it comes to vab! But when you looked at those figures, you could see that it was about, like, a percentage or less. Then I felt: If we don't have more expectations then we have some to work with when it comes to gender equality. Madam President, I would like The group in society most exposed to economic inequality is our foreign-born women. According to, again, the interim report of the Commission on Equal Living Income – this Bible for all who want to promote gender equality – it takes longer for foreign-born women than for foreign-born men to enter the Swedish labour market. These women are reached later by contributions from Arbetsförmedlingen. They are entered later than men and are offered fewer bets. In addition, they are printed out on average from Arbetsförmedlingen earlier than men. It's nothing but a betrayal. Foreign-born women must be reached by establishment measures regardless of whether they come to Sweden as refugees or as relatives. Time in parental insurance needs to be limited, and integration pre-schools, equal payment of grants and better conditions for interpretation are important measures for increasing gender equality. Above all, however, authorities and employers must have exactly the same expectations for women born abroad as for men born abroad. Before going into the area of men's violence against women, I would like to say a few words about attitudes, languages and norms. I believe that we are really experiencing a setback in this regard. Women are objectified as never before in media and social media. The Center Party believes that this is very serious and that we must mark every time, at every opportunity that we read or hear how language and behavior are used in an incorrect way against women and young girls. I remember with horror many of the headlines we have been able to read in the newspapers, not least during the metoo. For example, tasting at the restaurant is a problem for many young women. No, that's not the case – touching at the restaurant is a problem in many men. And when will we be able to establish once and for all that neither short skirts, alcohol nor flirty girls cause rape? What causes rape is rapists. Madam President, I would like The Pandemine has kept us in its grip. Unfortunately, many people are at risk of continuing to live with the effects of the pandemic. Many girls and women who have been forced to live through the pandemic with violence and oppression are still at risk of vulnerability and isolation. Men's violence against women has increased during covid-19, both nationally and internationally. The UN agency UN Women estimates that domestic violence has increased by 30 percent worldwide during the pandemic. We know that isolation leads to increased exposure to violence, while it is more difficult to seek help when the perpetrator's control is increased. The Center Party has been pushing for a long-term funding of women's and women's shelters. I find it totally unacceptable that, on the political agenda of the municipalities, issues of this type sometimes come up: should we decide on subsidies for women's and girls' shelters? How can it even be on the political agenda? If necessary, support shall be provided — point. This is how we deal with all other victims, or, for example, victims of abuse. No decision is made as to whether or not a young person should receive treatment for his or her drug abuse, but the possible political decision is about the treatment to be given. Support should be provided if necessary, and I am pleased that the Center Party, compared to the budget, adds over SEK 200 million each year for increased support to emergency services and sheltered housing. In addition, the Center Party believes that decisions on sheltered housing should constitute a special decision in the field of social services, as well as an individual decision for accompanying children. We have also talked for a long time about and pointed out the importance of sufficient resources for those who work to combat honour-related violence and oppression. Within the framework of the January cooperation, we have ensured that the competence team remains at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland and that the necessary resources are available for that operation. Madam President, I would like However, more action is needed. If we are to stop men's violence against women, we need more knowledge and more efforts at an earlier stage. It's not that the beatings begin to come around the age of 30 or when you have a family and children – according to Brå, almost one in four young girls has been subjected to a crime in their relationship. To put an end to young men's violence in a close partner relationship early and forcefully is central to counteracting men's violence against women. The Center Party allocates SEK 15 million per year to a three-year pilot operation with a national help line specifically aimed at young people. Under the Istanbul Convention, Sweden is obliged to set up national helplines for all forms of violence that fall within the scope of the Convention. Today there is the national telephone line Choose to quit for adult perpetrators, but there is no equivalent for young people. We also want to give the National Centre for Women's Peace better and more long-term economic conditions, and we want to give full funding to the Kvinnofridslinjen, which is a national support phone for women who are victims of violence. The number of calls has increased enormously in recent years, and it is important that the line can continue to be developed and manned. We also think that NCK should be given a national knowledge assignment in order to continue to contribute, develop and disseminate evidence-based knowledge about men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like The sexual exploitation of children, prostitution and human trafficking has also increased during the pandemic. This almost hurts to say, but that's how it is. According to a report by the Child 10 organisation, three out of four young people who were victims of commercial sexual exploitation reported that the support received was poor, and only 12% of respondents considered themselves victims. We need to ensure that there is an increase in knowledge here. The Center Party has set aside 18 million for regional coordinators with excellence in human trafficking. The regional coordinators are currently working at the Gender Equality Agency, which is the authority that has a national mission regarding prostitution and human trafficking, as well as cooperation between police, social services, healthcare and civil society. Every person should be able to live the life he wants, free from fear and oppression. The increased violence in the wake of the pandemic, at home and online, must be vigorously combated. This requires financial resources, political action and leadership. Madam President, I would like We are not taking part in the decision, because our budget has fallen, but I support the particular opinion of the Center Party.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-978	Madam President, I would like As the Left Party's proposal for appropriations under Category 13 is above the agreed level, I cannot reserve my support for this proposal. The left-wing budgetary options should be seen as a whole. That is why we, from the Left Party, choose to abstain from the position and instead present a separate opinion. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is a feminist party. We want to focus on issues such as distribution of power, economic inequality, division of labour in the home and all forms of oppression and violence against women. The Metoo call and all its followers shook large parts of the world. Everywhere, women came forward and testified to men's abuse. It was about everything from unpleasant treatment in the workplace to harassment and, at worst, very gross abuse. Often men used their power as rulers and as it physically, socially and economically stronger to demand sexual services from women under threat. Thousands of women's strong testimony is frightening and shocking, but Metoo has also given women in all camps a new courage and strength to dare to stand up and testify to oppression with an increased self-esteem. Not all men are violent, but in society, unfortunately, there has long been a picture of the man as the strongest and therefore the one who takes control. The power structure must be highlighted, discussed and opposed – from preschool, school and recreation centres to political speaking chairs and in the governance documents. Not all women have been able to raise their voices within the Metoo. This includes young girls who are victims of honour violence within the home, which means that the lives of many young girls and women are controlled and restricted. It is a terrible thought that the most dangerous person or persons in a woman's existence are her own father or the family with whom she shares life. Violence against women is a serious social problem that has devastating and far-reaching consequences for both the individuals affected and society at large, both in terms of human suffering and from a socio-economic perspective. Through preventive work over time and in many arenas at the same time, violence can be reduced. However, this work must not be done at the expense of support and action for persons who are subject to or are subject to the criminal law rules in force. There has been an increase in privately operated shelters. Every third resident is currently privately run with a profit interest. The work of women's and girls' shelters, on the other hand, is based on an idea-based foundation without a profit interest and is an appreciated asset for society's common efforts to combat violence. We in the Left Party have repeatedly raised the issue of the future of women's shelters and the need for stable funding. We want to protect and maintain strong and independent women's shelters. The Left Party believes that the government needs to make it clear that the women's shelters will be guaranteed long-term and stable financial solutions in order to continue their activities and therefore proposes an appropriation of SEK 50 million per year that should be specifically targeted at women's shelters. More women seeking help from the social services also need to be granted a place on sheltered housing and be there for as long as they need. According to the Left Party, in order for social services to be able to do so, SEK 350 million should be allocated annually. Madam President, I would like Gender equality is not just about the elimination of men's violence against women. Despite the fact that women have gained more space at different levels of society, there are still a great many different inequalities. Women still earn less than men. They work more often part-time – often involuntarily – and thus receive lower pensions. They make more use of parental insurance than men and also carry out a larger share of domestic work. The right to full-time, increased pension for those who have the worst and shared parental insurance are good suggestions if you want to take a step towards an equal society. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to talk about equality without also talking about establishment. In order to make it easier for newcomers to enter the labour market, efforts in language training and training are needed that are adapted to the individual's abilities. We in the Left Party want a society for everyone, not just for a few. It requires a policy that gives everyone, regardless of their background, the same opportunities and the same right to good education, work and housing. We want to pursue a policy of inclusion – a policy that counteracts segregation and facilitates establishment in society. We want to pursue a policy that lays the foundations for a more equal society. A well-functioning reception of refugees is an important part of an inclusive policy. The reception of people on the run, from the asylum process to the housing situation and the establishment of society, must be characterised by the centrality of individual human rights. Permanent residence permits and the opportunity to live together with your family improve the conditions for establishing yourself in society. General welfare is central to upholding the rights that it is our duty to protect. The welfare society has historically proved to be the most important and effective engine of integration, even in international comparison. We believe that the inclusion work must begin on day one – immediately after arrival in Sweden. Madam President, I would like During the previous term of office, the Left Party and the Government carried out several initiatives for better establishment and reception, such as language training, language teaching and more effective validation. We want to make further efforts in this direction in order to make it easier for newcomers to enter the labour market more quickly than they do today. Unaccompanied children and young people have been severely affected by the reversal of migration policy in recent years. The Left Party wants to see several changes in the establishment programme to strengthen the conditions for a better, more efficient and faster establishment and to ensure that municipalities are better compensated for the responsibilities they assume for the new arrivals. We propose that the start-up period be extended, that the start-up allowance be increased and that the municipalities that want to receive funding be able to take co-ordinating responsibility for new arrivals. The establishment period should be extended so that it corresponds to the time actually taken to establish itself. This is in order to create reasonable expectations and to replace the municipalities for the actual time of establishment. The aim of increasing the start-up allowance is both to improve the economic conditions for newcomers and to reduce their need for supplementary support, which is also a burden on local authorities' finances. The state under-financing of the municipalities' establishment responsibility is problematic both because it impoverishes the new arrivals and because it burdens the municipalities for what should be a common national commitment. It also creates room for false conflicts between the activities in the municipalities, when in reality it is a breach of a government commitment. Madam President, I would like Unaccompanied children and young people have been severely affected by the recent reversal of migration policies. A tight legislation, the Migration Board's long processing times and the trips around the secondary school law have deprived a large part of the group of the right to protection that they had when they arrived here. Many are forced to live as undocumented under widespread suffering and great stress as a result of current policies. When suicide and self-harm among unaccompanied minors increases while legal certainty is lacking in asylum procedures and the age assessments used face sharp criticism, amnesty is necessary. It is about this group that has become part of society being able to get into it for real. Madam President, I would like In times of crisis, a strong society needs to go in and create stability and security. The major crises that marked the first half of the 20th century with world wars, pandemics and famines created an understanding of society's responsibility for the economy, investment, security and welfare that long characterized politics. It is about a belief in democracy as a basis for the elected development of society and for our common needs to set the direction. Madam President, I would like Such a policy may be called a left. But it can also be called responsible, long-term and stability-building. Thank you for the floor, and have a continued good Lucia!
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1005	Madam President, I would like Although we are celebrating 100 years of female suffrage this year and perhaps the world's most equal country, we are still a good way from being completely equal. The average living income of a woman is still more than three million lower than that of a man. Only over a quarter of parental leave is still taken by men. It is still the norm that it is the woman who goes down part-time if it is needed to cope with everyday life as a parent of young children. Boys' school scores are still lagging behind those of girls, with the consequences for future opportunities in life. And for those girls, women, boys and men who live in freedom every day because of the environment's honorary thinking, gender equality is still just an empty word. The work of the Gender Equality Agency to raise those areas where women and men are not judged according to the same yardstick or where the expectations of the two sexes are different, thereby limiting the chances of living of one sex, is important and needs to be intensified and developed. Gender mainstreaming in our authorities also needs to continue to be intensified. This can be seen not least when looking at the differences in labour market policies offered to men and women. The difference is greatest when it comes to new start jobs. However, male over-representation is one of several labour market programmes. This is particularly problematic given that the employment gap between foreign-born men and women remains high. It is much larger than the one between native born men and women. Another area, Madam President, where it is evident that gender equality work needs a boost, is entrepreneurship. Of Sweden's approximately 490 000 entrepreneurs, about one in four is a woman. It is a very low proportion from a European perspective. In the EU, on average, one in three entrepreneurs is a woman. The difference between men and women in the distribution of risk capital is particularly clear. Today, only 1% of venture capital investment goes to women-based companies. Economic freedom is important, but a life free from violence and oppression is fundamental. We believe that further efforts need to be made to combat honour-related violence and repression and to combat men's violence against women, and so in our budget, EUR 70 million will be added to that work. We also believe that special means are needed to combat violence in young people's partner relationships, especially young boys' violence against girls, and therefore allocates 10 million extra to that work. Madam President, I would like Of the girls aged 16 to 24, 23 percent have been subjected to violence in a relationship at some point, according to a poll from Brå, 23 percent are almost one in four young girls. I think most of us in here know a girl or woman who has been subjected, and the responsibility is often placed on the girl or the woman. It's usually called "Why doesn't she just leave?" But responsibility needs to be placed where it belongs, with the guys and the men who beat. To really overcome men's violence against women, we need to work actively to get the perpetrators to stop beating. It is quite unreasonable for children and women in our country to hide from men who threaten them to live and that our society does not succeed better in securing their freedom. But the most important thing is prevention. The goal must be that the first battle should never be dealt. Then we need to start early in preschool to prevent gender stereotype roles from being consolidated. Continued throughout childhood, boys need to take part in violence prevention work and discussions about the male role and macho cultures. The first battle shall never be dealt. Madam President, I would like Category 13 also includes the activities of the Equality Ombudsman. It is an important activity that we do not very often touch on in this House. It is important not least for people with disabilities who are often exposed to a lack of accessibility. Of the complaints received by the Discrimination Ombudsman in 2015– 2019, 37 per cent were about discrimination against persons with disabilities. I note that there is a party in this House that does not believe that there is a need for a discrimination ombudsman in Sweden. Liberals disagree. As long as people are denied access to restaurants or buses because they have no vision or are in a wheelchair, a discrimination ombudsman is needed. As long as people are subjected to sexual harassment at their workplace, a non-discrimination ombudsman is needed to exercise supervision. As long as someone can get rid of business because they are homosexual, fired because she is pregnant or harassed because of her skin colour, a discrimination ombudsman is needed. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Liberals presented their own budget motion, where equality and equal value are fundamental starting points. Unlike what has been said here before in the speaker's chair, we add more money for gender equality than both in the government budget and in the winning budget that came from the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. We did not hear about our budget. We didn't take part in the decision. However, we gave a specific opinion in which we have developed the efforts that we want to make in the field of gender equality beyond what is already being done.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1019	Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women happens every day. Women are threatened, persecuted and harassed. They are forced to leave houses and homes and flee for their lives. Women are oppressed and women are murdered, by men. Equality is a matter of life and death, of women's right to their bodies and their security. Gender equality will not come of itself, but just as for generations who have gone before us with feminist reforms, it is now our turn to do the same. Madam President, I would like Last spring, the Green Party launched a 40-point programme against men's violence against women. It must now be repeated, financed and implemented. We have a national strategy against men's violence against women. It shall be implemented. 中 A national programme to prevent violence should gather, strengthen and disseminate the knowledge that exists about preventive work. 中 Skills at school regarding men's violence against women are to be taken into account. Information on consent legislation shall be disseminated. Everyone should know what it means. It aims to strengthen support for young people who have been victims of violence and interventions to young men who exercise violence and control in their relationships in order to end them. We are going to have preventive work in sport. 中 Sweden's women's and girls' shelters should be given the right conditions to carry out their work in the long term. There should be stronger protection for children against parents who have practiced violence. This will increase support to the National Centre for Women's Peace. It aims to increase support for the protection and support of persons involved in pornography. Women who have immigrated to Sweden through family immigration should be able to leave a man who strikes without withdrawing their residence permit.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1034	It will be easier for ideas-based actors to collaborate with municipalities around sheltered housing. There should be reinforced work in the field of social services against men's violence against women.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1037	The work against prostitution and trafficking in human beings will be strengthened. 中 Strengthening the criminal justice protection of young people aged 15 to 18. A person who is the victim of a sex purchase should be regarded as a victim of crime. We are introducing a new penalty for hatred of women. It will be a criminal offence to expose others to psychological violence as well.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1042	中 The early information provided by the plaintiff should be more easily relied on as evidence in court.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1043	The legislation should be reviewed to ensure that the punishment is proportionate to the seriousness of crime, including for the perpetrators of multiple crimes. It will be easier to issue a restraining order. There will be more severe punishment for those who violate a restraining order. There will be more severe punishment for gross women's defamation. 中 It will be easier to put a anklet on the stalker of women. The quality of the legal certificates is to be increased. The contribution to the Victim Support Fund will be increased. . Persons convicted of sexual offences should be given more appropriate treatment based on the findings of the preliminary investigation.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1053	This is intended for an initiative of the police on mental illness. 中 Criminal statistics are to be improved. It aims to deepen support for the identification of violence in close relationships. The authorities will strengthen their investigative capacity linked to violent and sexual crimes. skills of professionals should be improved. A mapping of the research field of violence in close relationships will be carried out. We shall have increased knowledge of the situation of victims of violence who live with protected personal data. These are 40 efforts that everyone speaks clearly: the blame should be placed on every man who beats, and society should always be on the women's side. Madam President, I would like The work for an equal Sweden extends over much more areas than men's violence against women. It is about breaking every glass ceiling, as now that we have a female prime minister, and it is about ensuring that women have the obvious: the whole salary and half the power. But if we can't afford to give every woman and every child a life free of men's violence, all of the other things aren't worth much. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Equal Opportunities Agency is not proposed to be closed in the M-SD-KD sketches to the budget, as happened last time. Perhaps gender equality has been given an increased priority by the parties who otherwise call the 50s to ask for gender equality policy. If so, it is welcome. Hopefully, the Conservatives have also seen the value of an expert authority in the field of gender equality. Having one is crucial to knowing which actions are effective. But the fact that they do not see the same need for an expert authority in the field of segregation raises questions if they do not share the view that segregation is one of the major challenges of our society in the future. This comes back to Mrs Leila Ali Elmi, Member of the Green Party, later in the debate. Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, a majority in Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we would like, we are abstaining from positions on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure. Instead, I refer to reservation 1 in the Finance Committee's report The State Budget 2022 The Framework Decision and supports the special opinion of S and MP.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1065	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Last year, 13 women were murdered by a loved one. Last spring, for a couple of weeks, 5 women were murdered by a loved one. This received quite a media attention. Finally! That is how many of us reacted to it. Since then, media reporting has quieted, but women continue to be murdered by loved ones. On September 24, Beata, 32 years old, disappeared from Malmö. About two months later, her body was found, and her husband has since confessed to her murder. On October 22, a woman was murdered in Vänersborg. Her common-law spouse is suspected of the murder, and it is suspected that pre-school children may have witnessed the murder. On October 31, a woman was found stabbed in Haninge. The woman died the same day of her injuries. Her partner is a suspect in the murder. On December 3, a woman was found dead in an apartment in Åkerp. Her common-law has admitted that he's the one who murdered the woman. On December 7, a woman was found dead in an apartment in Helsingborg. A man has been arrested, and a pre-trial investigation into murder or manslaughter has been initiated. Violence in close relationships is a growing problem in our society. It is a growing problem that now requires political attention. We were told here earlier in the debate that there are no differences in the area of gender equality in the budget appropriations that we have to discuss here today. I understand that for those who sit at home and follow this debate, it may be difficult to keep up with what it really means, but the fact remains that the money allocated to combat men's violence against women and to ensure that more perpetrators are locked up in this particular area of expenditure. The fact remains that in the budget that we in this House have voted in favour of, as I am very pleased to say, we devote more than SEK 1.2 billion more than the government to combating, among other things, men's violence against women, more police officers and more prosecutors, and to strengthening the judiciary and the prison system, so that more of these perpetrators will be locked up and more women will dare to feel free to move freely in our society. There are significant and significant differences that really matter. But money is one thing. We in this House must also demonstrate and signal through our decisions, through legislation, what concrete measures need to be put in place. This is, for example, a matter of compulsory detention for those suspected of gross female poverty. It is a question of introducing a penalty by means of a new criminal offence, a particularly serious violation of the rights of women, for the most ruthless cases. We believe that it needs to be easier to get a restraining order. It should not be like today, that the anklet can only be considered after the ban on contact has been breached. Then many women have experienced the hard way that it is already too late. It must be possible to judge directly, not only after breaching the ban on contact. We want to introduce a new view of who is moving. Today, where there are women and children who are allowed to move, break up, leave jobs, leave preschool and school and start a whole new life somewhere else. We're saying that's the wrong way to go. We believe that it should be possible to impose a restraining order in cases where an offender has been convicted in a court of law for exposing a loved one to this type of serious crime. It is reasonable that the perpetrator should move, not the victim. Gender equality in Sweden, however, is going in the wrong direction in more areas. If we look at sexual crimes, we can see that young women's exposure to such crimes has increased by 176 percent since Magdalena Andersson entered the government and we got a so-called feminist government. I am pleased that in this budget we are making several important contributions to gender equality. One in the economic sphere is that we can now finally stop the so-called family week, a week of leave that would mean a direct female trap. Many here have highlighted in the debate the fact that women in Sweden today still earn less than men. One important reason is that women are more away from the labour market. They are on parental leave, care for sick children and relatives and work part-time to a greater extent than men. It has effects during working life, in about 10% income difference between men and women. This difference then increases when we retire. Women will then receive almost one-third lower pensions on average than men. There's a real difference. That's why I'm glad we're stopping the so-called family week. Instead, we are investing in increasing women's incomes by reducing taxes on labour and reducing taxes on pensioners who have worked. This will be extra SEK 150 a month for those who work or who have worked. We have asked the parliamentary investigation service to compare our budgets since 2014 with those submitted by the Social Democratic-led government. Throughout, it turned out that Moderate budgets had contributed to increased disposable income, more money in the wallet, for women. Throughout, every budget has meant more money in the wallet for women than the Social Democrats' budgets have done. This, my friends, is a concrete equality policy for those of us who believe that equality begins in our wallets. It begins with its own income and thus also the opportunity to make decisions about its own life. Finally, Madam President, I would just like to mention a few words about those who are absolutely the furthest away from the labour market in Sweden and furthest from their own income. It is the foreign-born women, many born outside Europe, who are currently too little involved in the Swedish labour market. Of women of working age born outside the EU, one third are not part of the labour force. What does this mean? Well, that means that one third of these women are not even at the disposal of the labour market. They are not included in the statistics that you have already heard about and about which you will certainly hear more about here in the debate today. In fact, instead of highlighting the problems that we have to tackle, we choose to hide people in the statistics in the hidden forget-for-all policy of the Social Democrats. I believe that we need to pay much more attention to these women who today lack their own income, who lack their own money and thus the ability to make decisions about their own lives. Here we see that the employment gap has increased. Labour force participation has increased. The difference between foreign born men and women has increased. This is an absolutely central issue to which this government has completely ignored and turned a blind eye over the last seven years. We need to pay much more attention to this in the future. With that, Madam President, I would once again like to support the committee's proposal.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1086	Madam President, I would like Mr Malmqvist called for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report, and that was reasonable. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Mr Malmqvist a question. After all, she and I have debated this area of expenditure in this House before, and we have rarely been very in agreement. However, Josefin Malmqvist and her party have now supported the Social Democratic Government's gender equality policy to a hundred per cent. I think it would be exciting for voters to find out how that journey went and how it was reasoned. I did not think that Mr Malmqvist went into that journey anywhere in his speech, Madam President. Could Mr Malmqvist, not only to me and to the Members of this House, but above all to the voters, tell us how it happened when the Moderates shifted their old policy of reactionary equality to the more progressive Social Democratic policy of equality, which is now fully supported?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1088	Madam President, I would like With pleasure, I will tell Patrik Björck what the differences are between the equality policies of the Moderates and the Social Democrats, because those differences are obvious. For example, there is more money in the wallet, both for women who work and for women who have worked. It is about 8 billion for those who work and 4 billion for those who have worked. This is a clear gender equality effort. It is about abolishing the so-called family week, which is a direct female trap. But perhaps it is in particular – I think that is particularly clear in the budget we have to debate here in Parliament today and in the next few days – about the efforts on the judiciary. We spend more than SEK 1.2 billion more than Patrik Björck's government on strengthening the judiciary, on more police officers, on higher police salaries and on strengthening the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Court and the Criminal Service, so that more women can feel safe in their homes and out in the streets and squares. These are clear differences in our gender equality policy. I understand, however, that Patrik Björck does not want to talk about these differences, because they are hardly flattering to a government responsible for ensuring that gender equality in the area after the area has gone in the wrong direction, because young women's exposure to sexual crimes has increased by 176 percent and that income differences continue to be large. We have a government that, instead of making feasible reforms, is beating its chest and saying that we are satisfied and ready. It is hardly flattering for a government that calls itself feminist.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1093	Madam President, I would like I will not exert the patience of the President by discussing all areas of expenditure other than Category 13. I'm gonna stick to that. Then my question is: what have you been thinking in the Moderate Coalition Party about the Equality Authority? That question was asked here earlier, and it would be exciting to find an answer to it. If we stick to what the debate is about, Category 13, could we get a description from Josefin Malmqvist and the Moderates of how they thought about the very specific issue? It would be good for all of us to know – for the authority, for the women's movement and for everyone else in the country who is thinking about whether this was a temporary brain release or whether you have actually become wise.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1096	Madam President, I would like I myself have the privilege of sitting on the Transparency Council of the Equality Authority and therefore have a close dialogue with the Director-General. So I do not think there are any question marks. If Patrik Björck wonders whether I have personally changed my mind about the authority, I can say that no, I have not. Neither have the Moderates. Today we have a position on a negotiated draft budget from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. That proposal represents compromises. That is what we have to consider here today. I am very proud that this budget involves strong efforts in the area of gender equality. It is bets that Patrik Björck and his government now say no to. It is about investing in increased police salaries, strengthening the judiciary and enabling more women to experience security in their everyday lives. This is a clear gender equality policy in reality, to which Patrik Björck and his government say no.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1099	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a new direction. Our country needs stable governance that is capable of offering its citizens a safe and secure everyday life. The time since the last parliamentary elections has been a constant struggle for the Social Democrats to try to retain power. After December agreements broke down and January agreements, Sweden will now again be led by a Social Democratic Prime Minister. That, Madam President, brings to mind Kalle Anka on Christmas Eve. I am thinking mainly of the episode where, among other things, Långben and Musse Mouse are out on vacation with the caravan and suddenly discover that no one is driving. That's what it feels like when the Sossians run our country. For many of our citizens it will be a rather difficult, tough and dangerous journey – for the decent citizen who cannot even go to the store in broad daylight without risking or witnessing serious crimes, sometimes pure executions, or for staff and patients in the hospitals that can no longer be kept open after shootings. The day-to-day life of many citizens is, to say the least, insecure. The government thinks it is driving calmly and cautiously, while citizens feel that they are riding in a horror-filled roller coaster. For the Social Democrats have seen nothing coming, and they have been naive. The examples are many. Unemployment among foreign born children is high, and it is worse among foreign born women. Young men disappear from the establishment program into crime. The unemployed over 55 years of age are stuck in long-term unemployment. M a have faith! Nevertheless, I would like to congratulate Sweden, because there are still bright sparkles and good prospects. This government will run the country on the basis of the most responsible budget, i.e. the one that we, M and KD have produced. After decades and decades of carelessness with the common Swedish tax cake, we have now made sure that Sweden's new direction can begin, and where we Swedish democrats have really influenced. We are reducing the cost of hiring the long-term unemployed. We provide funds to strengthen work environment management. Large parts of the LO collective and voters like us, because we live in reality. We have seen the problems come, and we have not been naive. Madam President, I would like The time of the Swedish democrats as a workers' party is here in earnest, and I would therefore be happy to support the committee's proposal for a decision. Politics is a priority. An important part of our priorities is that we now remove the so-called home equipment loan. When the issue has been dealt with on the road to today's debate, I understand that some of you other parties are upset about this and believe that we are acting irresponsibly. Let me be very clear, Madam President. CSN's home equipment loan has been designed as follows: The newly arrived immigrant has been able to take out a loan of SEK 10 000 - 35 000, depending on whether and if so how many children there are in the household. The loan has been intended for the new arrivals to buy new fine furniture and such for their home. It has a deadline of two years before it has to be repaid. But hear and be amazed: If CSN estimates that the borrower cannot repay his debt, it will be absolved. So the debt does not have to be paid at all. Over the past three years, more than SEK 87 million has been absolved. Since the loans were introduced in 1991, it is about SEK 700 million that have not been repaid. If anything, Madam President, this is irresponsible. Instead, all this money could have been redistributed to Sweden's poor pensioners, care or by all means justice. But they have gone to new sofas and other things to those who have not contributed a single crown to our welfare system. We believe that home furnishings can be financed from their own resources. Madam President, I would like Another important priority is that we close down the Delegation against segregation. The segregation in our country is best fought by us who live and work here sharing the same basic values and that we are careful who settles here with us. It is not the Authority's mission, and therefore it is superfluous. The development of parallel social structures is a threat to our country's gender equality. In the name of honor, individuals are subjected to harassment, threats and acts of violence by their loved ones. They are forced to give up their own will and the ability to shape their own lives. Today, more than one in ten girls in custody have been subjected to honor-related violence. The theory of multicultural society is in direct conflict with the goal of greater equality between women and men. The so-called honorary culture and the norm of equality are each other's opposites. Anyone who opposes gender equality and practises honour violence and has foreign, medieval values should of course not live here. The violence of honour is not only contrary to our laws and our Western way of life, but is also contrary to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Madam President, I would like I began my speech by saying that Sweden needs a new direction. I am proud and happy that we can contribute to it and to a better future for Sweden. We owe it to both previous and future generations to care for a Sweden that holds together and hand over something better than what we inherited. Our children expect it from us.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1113	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt three and a half questions: It would also be fun to hear some exciting interiors from the tough negotiations on the Equality Agency. Is it possible? I realize that I have nothing to do with it. But I am curious, Madam President.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1115	Madam President, I would like It's not without me being a little flattered by Patrik Björck's curiosity. Unfortunately, the honourable Member is not a fly on the wall that can participate in any way in those negotiations. After all, however, the honourable Member asked me a few questions, and I was going to answer them. The first was why so few women vote for us. I also find that completely incomprehensible. We have the best policy. Now we have also shown, together with others, that we have the best policy for justice and for women's security. Women should take better care of themselves and their children. It is not a secure society that the Social Democrats, in particular, have delivered. Patrik Björck asked about a Member who has belonged to my party. That question belongs with that person, not with me. I can only answer for myself, and I can tell the honourable Member that I would not be politically active if it were not for my party, the Swedish Democrats, that my heart is so fond of. Those are the questions the honourable Member had. I am therefore taking the opportunity to use my last seconds to ask the honourable Member a question. How do the Social Democrats think gender equality policy works for you? You still haven't managed to remove shared tours for, for example, nurses. You've been talking about it for over 20 years now. I would like an answer to that, for all the nurses in the country.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1119	Madam President, I would like I intend to follow up on the first question about why so few women vote for the Swedish Democrats. When the Swedish Democrats thought about this phenomenon in their own propaganda channel, they thought it was because women think so much with their hearts. Should you interpret it as that the Swedish Democrats are a heartless party?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1120	Madam President, I would like I do not know if Mrs Björck has heard of Julia Kronlid once saying in the speaker's chair that we are driven by love. It has ever since been SD women's way of expressing us – we are driven by love. Of course, we want to grow with the women out there. We hope and believe that the female voters will look past the way the media and other parties lie about us. I very much hope that many women will do so in the future. It is not upsetting either for our political opponents or for the media to present pure lies about us that are not right at all.
i-Rc5cQPPVjxa1AxAjRymRAe	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for your speech. I could use an explanation. A great deal in the speech was that integration is a failure, which is, by the way, misleading. At the same time, you want to remove the efforts that have been made and that have contributed, for example, to a halving of the start-up period. My question is simply: how does it work?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1124	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. It is no secret that the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats are not very much in agreement, one might say, in particularly many political areas. Migration and integration are one of those where we are not. We can, for our part, see one on the whole completely failed and failed immigration policy. Migration has failed completely, not to mention integration. We see social structures emerging that do not belong at all in our Sweden, in our western way of living and working here on our little piece of cake. I am very confused that the Green Party, which has been in charge of the country for quite some time now, has a conscience to be involved in helping, year after year, to replenish the country with people who have medieval values that are foreign to us. It is people who have a view of women who go so totally against our idea of equality and who actually destroy the gender equality work with which we have come so far. Instead of developing in this country, the Green Party is involved in destroying that development.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1128	Madam President, I would like I note that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt did not answer my question about how it works. First, she criticises integration and segregation, where Sweden has major problems. We know that. It's not something we don't agree on. But the question is what to do about it. Either you have proposals for measures to improve it, or you are doing something like the honourable Member, and instead you are doing something about racism. You make it sound like everyone who has come here from other countries is not helping. But most of the people who have come here are involved in building this country better. They're building the country stronger. Without them, Sweden stays. However, we need to take strong action against segregation and for integration. My question is: what do the Swedish democrats want to do about it?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1130	Madam President, I would like We have different solutions to the problem than MP and S have until now. The solutions that you have presented in the meantime have not been very successful, to put it mildly, Janine Alm Ericson. I believe much more that we can deal with the problems that the country has suffered because of you and your former government friends. I have every confidence that we can deal with this. I am aware that an enormous amount of work will be required. We have made it clear that re-migration is what needs to be done in the first place. Those who do not want to live here should not live here. Those who do not want to learn the Swedish language and do not like it here should not be here. They will go to their home or somewhere else where they thrive and can be safe and well.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1133	Madam President, I would like We are therefore debating Category 13 of the state budget for next year, 2022. It concerns gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. In the Christian Democrats' parliamentary group it has occurred that I am responsible for all parts of the expenditure area. I will therefore touch on the area of expenditure as broadly as I can in this speech and do my utmost to respect the agreed speaking time. Madam President, I would like The starting point for Christian Democratic equality policy is that all people, regardless of gender, are an end in themselves and not a means for anyone else. Our starting point is the inviolable value of man. She can't and can't be owned. Man and his relationships presuppose that man and woman are equal. Where equality is weak, so is human dignity. Violence against women in Sweden has increased. This applies to both the number of reported rapes and violence in close relationships as well as honor-related crime. At the same time, the clearance rate is low, and the darkness rate is high. Do you remember last spring after five women were murdered in just a few weeks? The attention was great both among journalists and among us politicians. Since then, reporting has decreased and the debate has slowed down. But no, violence and murder have not subsided. During the autumn, five more women have been murdered by their husbands. Josefin Malmqvist brought out the people behind the figures. Nearly 800 women today live hidden, often fleeing a violent and threatening partner. If the case is linked to honor, it is often the whole family you are forced to hide from. They have protected public records because the threat is considered so serious. In social media under the name Hidden Women tell some of them about the fear and problems they constantly encounter in everyday life. It's a life that it's hard to get into. These women are the ultimate sign that we have not been able to protect women and children sufficiently. They hide, and the perpetrators go free all too often. In the Christian Democrats' Budget Movement for Category 13, we have done some repriorities and our own initiatives to increase gender equality. In the joint draft budget we have worked out with the Moderates and agreed with the Swedish Democrats on, the framework of which was voted through in this House, the appropriation, which has been noted here today, does not change in the area of gender equality in comparison with that of the government. There are such major changes that we believe are needed to contribute to greater equality, and we therefore believe that it is reasonable for these major budgetary contributions to be made in other areas of the budget, such as the judiciary. It should be said, Madam President, that in its budget proposal the government has made some important improvements and efforts that we have also welcomed. For example, the government reduced the National Centre for Women's Peace's basic grant, NCK, when the Equality Agency was established. Since then, they have had to apply for project money, which has made long-term work more difficult. The government backed up, and the budget bill proposed an increase in NCK's appropriations. We welcome the commitment to a national programme against men's violence against women and honour-related violence. The Christian Democrats have a large number of proposals in our motion that could be used for parts of this initiative. Increased funding for women's and girls' shelters is also a very important effort to enable long-term and stable funding for an activity that is crucial for many women to get out of a threatening relationship or context. We have previously demanded and financed a permanent national centre of competence against honourary oppression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, and we welcome the fact that the government has also come to this conclusion under great pressure, including from the Liberals. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country of hope and opportunity, not hopelessness and exclusion. We Christian Democrats want a society in which all people do their part to contribute and work 100% of their ability. We need to take advantage of people's inherent motivation and willingness to build a secure future in Sweden. But Sweden has not designed the reception of refugees in a way that favours the establishment and integration of new arrivals. The establishment programme needs to be better adapted to reality. The fact that, after the two-year establishment programme, just over one third of new arrivals move on to paid or subsidised work or training shows that its design leads far too many people to support or exclusion. Instead, the Christian Democrats want to review the possibility of extending the start-up period for those who so need up to five years. For municipalities, this would mean a relief as the State's responsibility, not least financially, is extended for the group that is not yet matchable. But it can't just be about the length of the program. Of course, the SFI should also be more personalised and more clearly linked to the labour market. Madam President, I would like Newly arrived women participate to a lesser extent in various preparatory activities compared to men. They will later be registered with the Employment Service and will begin language teaching later. New arrivals of women and men are not met with the same expectations and demands to work. Several studies highlight different structural aspects, such as the types of work the Employment Service offers women, the treatment of authorities, access to childcare, the design of parental insurance and discrimination among employers. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1147	Madam President, I would like I get a little dizzy with the tours around the hearing. Josefin Malmqvist said that it was a tough negotiation with the three parties about the Equality Agency. The Moderates offered tough resistance. The Swedish Democrats were obviously not the party that did that. Then there's only one party left. It must have been the Christian Democrats who fought for the continued existence of the Equality Authority. There is no other way to understand this. When I read the preparation of the matter, the Christian Democrats were not in favour of the Equality Authority. Then something must have happened in the Christian Democrats' attitude towards the Equality Authority. We started preparing the AU1 report a few weeks ago, and then it was the way to the tough negotiation with the SD and the Moderates, where they managed to save the Equality Authority even though they did not want it themselves. I would like to hear a comment.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1149	Madam President, I would like I understand that Patrik Björck is disappointed that there was no closure of the Equality Agency. It was such an appropriate bat in the debate. I would like to remember that we were here a couple of years ago, and then there was a black and white debate: either you are in favour of equality or you are against equality. Everything depended on one authority, and everything depended on how the work was organised in the field of gender equality. This debate deserves so much more. It certainly deserves to be seriosity, and it will not be when you get caught up in a debate about whether you are in favour of or against equality. It is true that we have not been in favour of the Equality Agency. There were several other parties that were not. Several consultation bodies argued that it would knock the bones off already functioning activities. Our proposal was to create a form of delegation that would have the overall responsibility to ensure that activities do not overlap. It would not be an authority that takes already functioning activities and destroys them in the way that was done.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1152	Madam President, I would like Why I am fishing on this issue is about seriosity. I would like to point out with what a huge lack of seriosity the budget has been produced. Three parties have failed to agree on what they agree on. It is not a joke we are discussing today, Madam President, but it is the Swedish budget for next year. The parties that push through their proposal in the Committee on Finance cannot even agree on an issue in an area of expenditure on which the parties agree. They are in tough negotiations – about what?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1153	Madam President, I would like In fact, I do not know whether there have been tough negotiations on this particular issue. What I feel, however, is a joke is that Patrik Björck is so upset that an authority remains that Patrik Björck says does a good job and wants to have left. With regard to the problems of cooperation and what is going on in the negotiating rooms, I think it is a bit bleak for a social democrat to speak. It is, of course, the major cooperation problems that the Social Democrats have been dealing with that we have had to focus on solving in this budget. You've ignored them. You have been far too focused to solve them, with the Left Party on one side and the Center Party on the other side. It is a bit from the wrong Member, I must think.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1155	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by making it clear that we Social Democrats are abstaining from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations for Category 13 because the Government's proposal for a financial framework has already been rejected by Parliament. It is worth mentioning, however, that in this area too, the government's draft budget forms the basis of the policy for the most part. Remarkable is that the right-wing Conservatives had not written a single line in order to justify their budget in this area when they tabled the proposal in committee. If it was because they fully share the view of the government, that they were unable to agree on common wordings or simply simply totally uninterested in the policy area, I do not know, but it is something that can be developed by representatives of those parties in the debate. I can only say that the handling is both mischievous and mischievous. Sweden deserves better than to be guided in part by what could possibly have been used as a joint debate article but definitely does not meet the standards of state budget. Madam President, I would like All people's equal value and thus equal rights, opportunities and obligations are the foundations for us Social Democrats and the starting point for our policies. Not least, this concerns the policy area we are now discussing. A well-functioning integration enables people who have come to our country to contribute to and participate fully in society. This requires efforts to ensure that people who have come here from completely other parts of the world understand what country they have come to, how society and the labour market operate, what expectations there are of everyone who wants to live here and what rights and obligations they have. In addition, barriers to people's participation in the form of discrimination and segregation must be removed and efforts made to get into society as quickly as possible. In our society, racism, discrimination and segregation prevent people from living their lives in freedom and on an equal footing. Child poverty, overcrowding, exclusion, lack of school outcomes and insecurity are consequences of inequality and segregation and must be broken through long-term and strategic work in collaboration between many different actors. The delegation against segregation, Delmos, was created to follow and strengthen the work towards segregation and to spread knowledge and good examples. Of course, the aim has never been for the authority to break the segregation on its own. On the other hand, it will help authorities and other actors such as Arbetsförmedlingen, the police, housing companies, school, social services and civil society work effectively and strategically. At a time when it has become apparent to the vast majority of us that segregation threatens to tear our society apart and contributes to hopelessness, exclusion and crime, it is quite incomprehensible that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats in their draft budget want to abolish Delmos, also without pointing out how the tasks they have are to be taken over by others. In the same way, it is difficult to understand why m a n is going on home equipment loans and thus risks increasing the costs of subsistence support for municipalities. In fact, we have a social services law in this country that stipulates that people have the right to a reasonable level of living. That's where the beds and pots are counted, which is the home equipment. Madam President, I would like Work and the Swedish language are keys to participation and integration. It is therefore of great importance that foreign born people receive good language training and support for work on the basis of their individual circumstances. For us Social Democrats, this is precisely what is at the heart of integration policy, an integration policy that has become increasingly labour market-oriented. Those who have come to Sweden are not a homogeneous group but have different backgrounds, education and work experience. A number of different measures are therefore needed to pave the way to working life. Compulsory education, knowledge transfer, increased opportunities to combine language studies with vocational training, fast track, job tracks, additional services, introductory jobs and intensive years – reform for reform, the government has strengthened the focus on jobs and improved the establishment of new arrivals. The start-up work of the parties will now also become a reality at the beginning of next year, and we look forward to the parties starting to sign collective agreements in order to get started as quickly as possible with the new form of entry into the labour market. The time for new arrivals to enter the labour market has in recent years been shortened year by year, and the goal is, of course, to further shorten that time. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, language is crucial for establishing oneself in the Swedish labour market. Linguistic duty, improved SFI and more language training are some of the reforms implemented to further strengthen the language skills of newcomers and other foreign-borns. Jobs and self-sufficiency provide self-determination, participation and freedom to shape one's own life. As more foreign born people come to work, skills supply can be improved and tax revenues increased. We have everything to gain from successful integration. The establishment in the Swedish labour market must be equal. Women and men should have the same opportunities and equal support to be able to establish themselves in the labour market, get jobs and support themselves. But it doesn't look like that today. Too often too often women are not faced with the same demands and expectations as men. They do not receive equal support and, to a lesser extent, the type of aid that more often leads to employment, such as labour market training and subsidised employment. Therefore, the government has in several ways strengthened the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen. For example, it is about increasing gender equality within the establishment programme and subsidised employment. Measures should also be taken and planned to ensure equal support for women and men, in particular for those born abroad. At the same time, it is important that support is given based on individual needs and the conditions that each person has. Many foreign-born women have a short educational background and no or little relevant work experience. For these women, the extra services have been an important contribution that has given more people the opportunity to gain valuable work experience and language training as a first step on the road to a real job. It is therefore very unfortunate that M, KD and SD in their budget stop new instructions for additional services. In labour market training, we are now seeing an increase in the proportion of new decisions that go to women. It is the result of the government mission I mentioned earlier. It is therefore possible to reverse the trend, but political will and clear governance are needed in order for the establishment to be more equal. In Sweden, we now have strong standards on women's participation in the labour force. Our well-being with extended preschools and elderly care creates good conditions for both men and women to work. Moreover, the Social Democratic-led government has reformed parental insurance and abolished the custody allowance in order to shorten the time it takes for foreign-born women to enter the labour market. And it gives results. To this can be added that peoples' education, civil society and municipalities do an important job in strengthening language and the way to work for parents' leave. In the area by area we see how the efforts are improving, but we have a long way to go before we can be satisfied. We Social Democrats will continue to work towards greater equality and equality, for the equal value and right of all people. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in this area.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1173	Madam President, I would like Where you come from doesn't define you or where you're going. These words are simple and obvious to some and provocative to others. This is the reality today in our beloved Sweden. It's polarized. There are increased gaps between city and country, between insiders and outsiders and between generations. It's about the hunt for scapegoats, explanations and solutions – a little depending on the perspective you choose. In these days when everything is upside down and this Assembly does not act very logically, it still feels safe to know that there will be a tomorrow no matter how this debate ends. But it is sad that racism and populism have been given this prominent place in the spotlight. Madam President, I would like The other week I was in Skärholmen at a secondary school, not to recruit votes from eighth graders but to talk about life chances, about the importance of running the school and fighting, and above all about the importance of not putting on the sacrifice jacket, or the pitcher bag for that matter. Of course, we are born with different conditions. What defines us, however, is our ability to manage the lot we have received without taking too many shortcuts, running away from responsibility and leaving us out of the common. But somewhere, society, as we are set to manage and develop, has a responsibility to live up to its part of the agreement, the contract or whatever you call it. It's kind of impossible to eat the cake and keep it, as some people seem to believe. And, ladies and gentlemen, problems can be made up over a while, but sooner or later reality will catch up with us whether we want it or not. Madam President, I would like Most people know the names of the neighborhoods often mentioned in black headlines. These are headlines that talk about crime, insecurity, exclusion and unemployment. Many of these areas are listed by the police as vulnerable. These districts become well known but also notorious. The people there are put in unions, stigmatized and given even worse opportunities to move forward. The problems must be taken very seriously. In the 2020s, Sweden cannot allow insecurity and social problems in some areas to hit the broad majority who want to go to work calmly, to the small business, and who are fighting for their children's success in school and for a better life. We need to break the breeding ground for crime – exclusion – and fight it with the same determination. It is possible to reverse developments in alienation areas. It has been successful in several parts of the country. Klockaretorpet in Norrköping and Gårdsten in Gothenburg are examples of districts that have been removed from the police list of vulnerable areas. In addition to Klockaretorpet, Rannebergen and Gårdsten, there are examples of suburbs and neighbourhoods in the cities that were once considered impossible to turn away from crime and misery but which today are extremely attractive living environments. The same is true in many other cities around the world. It is possible to reverse vulnerable areas. Important steps have been taken in recent years to improve integration and to give people in vulnerable areas reason to feel hope and confidence in the future. Work on reforming labour law and the world's unique transformation, thus also reducing the division of labour markets, is continuing. The introduction of the intensive year of new arrivals will lead to better language training, traineeships, new start jobs and social orientation. A number of efforts have been made to reduce business costs, to save jobs during the pandemic and to stimulate investment. The reform of Arbetsförmedlingen continues as an important part of the historical transformation of the Swedish labour market that resulted from the January agreement. All these have been important reforms. But much of the work remains to be done. Nearly 200 000 people are currently in long-term unemployment and, as is well known, unemployment is directly correlated with exclusion and segregation. Therefore, it is the Center Party's view that a pool of forces needs to take place in order to reverse the development of those areas which are too alienated. In order for Sweden to be strong now and in the future, effective reforms are needed with a clear job focus that improves the reception of new arrivals. We need to continue implementing structural reforms in order to create the conditions for a reduction in the duality of the Swedish labour market – a labour market that, at the same time, has a great need for skills with demographic challenges and with faster pace of development and transition needs. Madam President, I would like While there is a gap in employment between foreign and domestic born, there is also a gap between foreign born men and women. Integration is therefore also a question of gender equality. In particular, women born abroad who have fled their country of origin find it difficult to get to work quickly. The initial period in Sweden is all too often dominated by housework and child care, which greatly reduces the chances of getting into work. The duration of parental insurance should therefore be severely limited and language training should start in parallel with possible parental leave, for example through the proposal of the Center Party for the introduction of integration schools. It is important for society to be clear about fundamental values of people's equal rights and values. As a rule, financial compensation for households, such as financial assistance, should be paid evenly between spouses. The right to an interpreter must also be better upheld than it is today. Children's ability to act as interpreters to their parents should be severely limited. The response of public authorities must also reflect to a greater extent that society has the same expectations for women and men to be integrated and to get to work. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to talk about the budget that has won the acceptance of this House. I would have liked to support the Centre Party's draft budget. Of course it's for the best. All center parties can attest to that. But now we can't. Then we have expressed our views in a separate opinion. Unfortunately, because of the rules, I could not ask for a reply to the interventions of the Swedish Democrats in this House. The fact that, on xenophobic grounds, a loan is converted into a grant and the bill is sent to the local government sector is strange. That the Moderates have bought it and have become Sweden's new party is the next concern. Then the Swedish Democratic Member has the nerve to claim that this would be in some kind of correlation to compensation for the elderly – no. That it is money that people pay back is better than that money is paid out in grants? Then society has a little more money to distribute than if the money were to be paid out as a grant. It's important to do your homework.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1193	Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about the proposals in the area of establishment where the blue-brown budget option has changed in the government bill. The first and the largest is about Delmos, the Authority's Delegation against segregation, which is proposed to be closed down. And in 2022 it is expected to work precisely on its own decommissioning. It is quite interesting to note how this has been dealt with in the budget reservation that unfortunately went through in Parliament on 24 November. This point is one of the few proposals that the three parties have been able to negotiate quickly, which in turn has perhaps been facilitated by the fact that all three of their respective budget movements have included a proposal for closure. However, I note that all these budgetary movements make changes to the appropriations by about halving the money to be spent on the Agency. You're supposed to cut down by SEK 9 million. This halving is not part of the mini-suppression sketch that the parties presented together during the parliamentary process, but is just the decision to start the closure they propose. The remarkable thing here is that all the blue-brown parties have a proposal which they have reasonably known cannot be implemented with the budgetary resources they are proposing at the same time. This is one of a great many indications of how unseriously and irresponsible these parties have acted when they have produced their draft budget – which should be the coherent alternative that they wish to govern Sweden for. It is also interesting to look at what the argument for closure looks like. The Swedish Democrats say in their own budget motion that it is a direct effect of removing all the money that is being put under the envelope for measures against segregation. It is thus envisaged that the Delegation against segregation, which deals with the processing of applications for such funds, is not necessary. This, in itself, is not so strangely reasoned by a party whose very foundation is the struggle for segregation and against integration. However, I can see that this action money remains in the overall blue-brown proposal but that we still want to close Delmos – now with the rather fascinating motivation that segregation is best counteracted by reforms that make more people have a job to go to, that more learn Swedish and that more go out of school with full grades. It sounds like good, important and fun things, but it is also completely disconnected from what the overall blue-brown policy actually is about. This is particularly the case if an overall budget had been presented on the basis of the parties' respective budgetary movements. Now they have not been able to negotiate anything like this because the central thing has been the creation of the cuddly atmosphere with the Swedish Democrats rather than the content of politics, but that is where we can look if we want to see what is in the pipeline, so to speak, if these parties should be given a mandate to put together a more comprehensive economic policy for Sweden. There are no reforms that make more people have a job to go get from these napkin artists. Should one continue its defoliating policy for the common welfare sector in the future and with its lack of willingness to carry out the necessary investments for Sweden, the effect would be that fewer have a job to go to. Nor will more people go out of school with full grades with the uniquely far-reaching marketing school that the Swedish right defends with such a factual disregard – not infrequently on the way through the swing doors to the lobby for free drawing rights on public funds. However, more people are apparently going to learn Swedish in order for segregation to be counteracted. But it is not quite clear how the closure of a small authority working with project applications, research mediation and the development of public statistics will contribute to more people learning Swedish. Madam President, I would like The segregation is about place-bound inequality, or to quote a little bit from Delmos's information-rich website: A little further down, it says: a division can lead to unequal living conditions and also to problems that affect society as a whole. It is precisely these things that Delmos, objectively and quietly, works with. A major effort by Delmos, which is actually very impressive in terms of the Authority's limited resources, is the creation of a comprehensive tool for visualising statistics on segregation at different geographical levels. Authorities, municipalities, journalists and others can find their own answers to relevant questions through this tool, which at best can also lead to a more knowledge-based approach to what they work with. It is regrettable and may even seem rather strange that this work should be made the subject of political scoring from the blue-brown direction. It is clear that this is to be seen as a signal policy intended to reach out among supporters who are even more actively uninterested in or hostile to the very facts and knowledge. Madam President, I would like Recently, the right - wing publication New Times, which previously received attention for its calls to readers to make home visits to journalists, had an article on the Delegation against segregation. The article examines, among other things, the housing situation of the Director-General of the Agency and its Transparency Council, which appears to be falsely believed to be some kind of board of directors. It is written that there are two non-ethnic Swedes in the Transparency Council, and this is about me and Leila Ali-Elmi from the Green Party. There is also information on how much different people's apartments or houses are valued at. Linguistics and infalluskelarna are familiar to us who have long had to face right-wing propaganda production in various forms. I will not make it a habit to refer to this type of publication, but in this case it gives an indication that some organizations or people sometimes become hate objects in these circles. What worries me is that I see such bizarre notions and campaigns also moving into and affecting the more established right, and I think that is something that should concern far more people than us in this House today. Madam President, I would like The blue-brown budgetary changes also mean the abolition of the possibility of so-called home-equipment loans. It is therefore a small amount that you can borrow, with interest, to buy things for your first home in Sweden. As is made clear on CSN's website, it can be, for example, a sofa, TV, cot and things for the kitchen. The reason for the abolition is that, according to the blue-browns, this reduces the driving forces of work and self-sufficiency. So people would stop working or refrain from looking for work to consider instead a crib or a saucepan. The argument is drawn from the Moderates and possibly bears witness to a limited experience of interaction with real-life humans. In practice, however, it is a pretext; here, political impulses are more in line with those of Sweden's democratic Members who are in charge. It will then be important to attack everything that even has the potential to make life a little easier for people who have taken refuge in Sweden. One can say that it is a kind of evil signaling, to paraphrase an expression from the environments that the blue-brown parties are now part of and developing. As we heard earlier today, racism from that point of view also becomes more unflowered when this party is invited further into the heat of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. We heard some kind of happy version of a discussion on ethnic cleansing earlier, and now the Moderates and Christian Democrats are going to elections to invite these representatives to become ministers of state too. I just want to say that you should not think that we, as it were, are at the sharp end of racism should forget or forgive. Madam President, I would like I note that in its special opinion, the Center Party also criticises the two proposals I have mentioned in my speech. That's what we heard here. So there is really no majority for them in Parliament. Now we have the position we have in view of how things went in the budget vote in November, but let us look forward – it could be possible to arrange for this, for example, in connection with our amending budget, as was done in 2019 when the M-KD napkin sketch went through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. But that calls for talks and negotiations. For the time being, I note that Sweden needs a completely different policy of establishment and integration. It is a policy to tackle major societal issues, a policy that takes back control and a policy that focuses on reducing inequality and challenging the structural barriers that exist for people to take a place in society. The Government's proposal is in many ways inadequate in this respect, but the blue-brown changes voted through in the Riksdag make the problems worse on a point-by-point basis. I would also refer to the special opinion of the Left Party in the report and to our coherent and comprehensive draft budget, which has been submitted to Parliament.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1215	Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals also agree with the specific opinion that we have notified because we do not take part in the decision in the budget section. This policy area is extremely central. It is about gender equality policy, which my colleague Malin Danielsson raised earlier in the debate. We from the Liberals have a strong strengthening of gender equality efforts and policies. This applies not only to gender equality policy in general, but especially to something that some have touched on, namely the employment agency's mission and how to support and give men and women the same opportunities. There should be demands on both men and women, but there should also be opportunities. The gender equality mission and work on gender equality were discussed by the Social Democrats. However, as recently as a few weeks ago, there was a review report that failed the Employment Service's gender equality policy objectives, including in terms of labour market policy programmes, advice, support, guidance and procured programmes offered by the Employment Service. For this reason, the Liberals have asked the Employment Service to come to the Labour Market Committee on Thursday to present and answer questions that we have regarding the gender equality objectives within the Employment Service. Strangely enough, in this short but important report, the government comes to the conclusion that action both in this area of expenditure, dealing with gender equality and integration, and in other areas has helped to reduce and counteract segregation and to improve the situation in areas facing socio-economic challenges. Madam President, I would like I am not one of the politicians who want to exaggerate, but I do not want to sweep the problems under the carpet either. I have worked politically in one of the so-called vulnerable areas, in my municipality Västerås, for 18 years. It is not enough to talk about the problems, but there must also be a political majority. It is necessary to change, break segregation, invest in preschool, review vocabulary, introduce language preschool for children and support civil society. The reason why many of these areas remain on the police list of vulnerable areas is that nothing has happened for many years or that responsible politicians have looked away or closed their eyes. I do not know how many times I have been criticised by Socialist representatives at different levels for talking about developments in these areas. You Socialist representatives refer to the report and to the fact that the situation in areas with socio-economic challenges has improved. Now tell me, Has employment increased? Has long-term unemployment developed in the right direction? What is the situation of women born abroad? Does the government – or Employment Service – know at all what it looks like in the establishment of SFI education? I have been trying to get an answer to that question over the last few weeks, but nobody can answer it. How can you stand here in the speaker's room and tell me that things are moving in the right direction? Is this about the development of the vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas, with socio-economic challenges, where we see lower incomes, lower education and lower employment rates and where disparities are increasing? In 2015, there were 53 areas on the police list of vulnerable areas; now there are 61 areas. It's not just about crime, it's also about the issues we're talking about-- about exclusion in general. This is taken from the government budget, which was put on the table of Parliament, which concludes that the situation in the areas with socio-economic challenges has been improved. I believe that this is not a picture that is in keeping with reality, Madam President. Liberals want to see a different political direction in the judiciary and a state head of the school. This would seriously increase equivalence and improve conditions throughout the country, regardless of the district and the municipality. Liberals also want us to prioritise compulsory language preschool. This is a liberal proposal. It's been investigated by the government, but now it's time for delivery. There are too many newly arrived women and too many families with foreign background who have too low participation in preschool and childcare. Another indicator that shows that it is not going in the right direction at all is the regulation letter to Arbetsförmedlingen. It states that the proportion of enrolled persons without activity in the establishment programme should be significantly reduced. This, if anything, is well acknowledged that we have major problems with segregation as well as with state integration policy. I am extremely proud that we introduced the establishment reform in 2010, but it needs to be adjusted and reformed with requirements and focus on language and education in order to bring more men and women to the labour market.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1230	Madam President, I would like Today, segregation brings together poverty and foreign background. It is a social problem that basically has nothing to do with migration or ethnicity. The inhabitants of the suburbs have varied, but poverty, social exclusion and hopelessness have united them for decades. If we as a society are to overcome segregation, we must remove the obstacles that stand in the way of integration. One of the biggest of these obstacles is that the integration debate is marked by racism and prejudice that stand in the way of wise and sustainable decisions. Instead, an economic policy is needed that reduces poverty and creates good conditions for everyone who grows up in Sweden, regardless of where they or their parents come from. Poverty has always been a risk factor for ill health, crime and other problems. Madam President, I would like Every kid should have the right to a good education, care should be given as needed and society should back off the one who is having a difficult time. It is this welfare that Sweden has built up for decades. It is a welfare worth fighting for and defending. Today, however, school segregation means that not all children get the same chance to get a good education. Discrimination provides poorer care for foreign-borns, and harsh rhetoric increasingly blames those with the weakest resources. Inequality and economic divides increase segregation, impair trust between people and fatten racism. Therefore, it is not only newly arrived people who lose out on segregation, but our whole society loses out on segregation. Madam President, I would like Today, profit has brought market logic to school. In turn, it drives school segregation. Anyone who wants to make money can make money while children who need more support remain in other schools. The market logic makes teachers service staff, parents of customers and children into money bags. For an equal school, the interest in profit must be removed from school. Today it is the children who have the worst conditions with them from home who are repeatedly forgotten. These are the children who attend preschool to the lowest extent. It is those children who attend the schools with the lowest percentage of educated teachers. Those children are the ones who are not entitled to a Fritis, because their parents are unemployed. Instead, they run around the squares, where criminal gangs stand ready to recruit them. Madam President, I would like There are those in this congregation who cry out hard for these very children and who feel that it is not poverty or structures that are the problem but where their parents come from. Loud voices do all they can to discredit, black out, and nourish prejudice. But fear and hatred do not solve problems and do not build a sustainable society. It gives scapegoats to focus their anger on, but the problems remain. In addition, integration is further hampered. It is much easier to kick the outsider than to create the conditions necessary for everyone to get in. But it is a dangerous strategy that neither creates security nor community in society. Instead, security is built by creating the conditions for people to meet and trust each other. We build security through policies that reduce gaps and strengthen the welfare of all. Madam President, I would like Integration is a mutual process. I know that many in this congregation are opposed to that idea. It is a process that demands both the newcomer in society and the society as a whole. We cannot believe that new arrivals will integrate themselves into their own corner and that once they are done with it will come over and join the rest of society. That's not how things work, to be honest. An immigrant cannot be integrated unless she is included. It is therefore of the utmost importance that newly arrived people are included early in Swedish society. Language skills, social education, access to education, jobs and housing are central to creating the conditions for a future here. During the last two terms of office, major efforts have been made in these areas, but more needs to be done to break the segregation. From this point of view, it is incomprehensible that a proposal to close Delmos, the Delegation against segregation, seems to win the support of Parliament and that this would make it more difficult to counteract the alarming development of gang crime and shootings that we can see around the country. Delmos role as an expert authority is central to the work towards segregation. It is of great importance that the work we are doing towards segregation can be carried out together and in the long term if it is to be effective and successful. Closure of Delmos is both bad for the work against segregation and irresponsible economic policy, to be honest. Integration in Sweden should be the best in the world. It aims to increase equality, protect gender equality and provide the conditions for a society that stays together. If we are to get there, we must talk about which policy makes a real difference and not take the easy way to blame everything on an already vulnerable group in society. It is not enough that it does not solve the problems. It creates new problems that are hard to overlook. Political rhetoric and commitment must be more focused on finding solutions and ways forward. There are those who want to paint the Green Party's policy as blind to the challenges that exist in society linked to integration. Instead, I believe that we are one of the few parties that still dare to face these challenges without landing in simplified conclusions. We do this by focusing on a policy that helps improve the conditions for new arrivals to establish themselves and become part of society. For integration to work, people need to be faced with opportunities, not with resistance and suspicion. Madam President, I would like Finally, as we stated in our specific opinion, I believe that it is the proposals in the budget proposal that provide the best conditions for reducing segregation and better integration and not the committee's proposal.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1249	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal for a decision, that is, the joint draft budget drawn up by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like Immigration should be good for Sweden. It should be useful for Sweden and for those who live, live and work here. Swedish politics has never taken integration problems seriously and therefore not made the necessary political decisions either. The result is a deep exclusion of many immigrants and therefore a completely new integration policy is now needed. For a country like Sweden, successful internationalisation is a matter of survival. Our world-leading companies enrich other countries, and hundreds of thousands of people who have come here over the years enrich our country with culture, knowledge, entrepreneurship and tax money. It is crucial to our success. But Sweden has for a long time failed with integration while more and more people have come here. Today, every fifth person is born abroad, and only in the last ten years, more than 400 000 asylum-related residence permits have been granted. Politics has been hoping for decades that everything will go well but not done what is necessary. The result is a dangerous and paralysing alienation among many immigrants. Madam President, I would like Totally new figures from the parliamentary investigation service, which we Moderates have produced, show that 675 000 adults who have immigrated are not self-sufficient but dependent on benefits for their livelihoods. Sweden is almost the worst in Europe in terms of the employment gap between domestic and foreign born. Sweden is also the country where it pays the least to work, to go from grants to work. During her seven years as Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson has been the main architect of the failed policy. Now it is said from Magdalena Andersson that we should turn all the stones around. This is the new point of reference from the Social Democratic party headquarters on Sveavägen. It is therefore all the stones they themselves have hidden under in the denial of everything from integration, migration, crime and long-term unemployment. Madam President, I would like First of all, there is a need for insight into problems. Since the 1970s, a fundamental idea in Swedish politics has been that integration is about a process from two directions, where both immigrants and natives will be integrated into a new multicultural society. That approach leads to error. It is about a necessary practical adaptation to work in Swedish society, to respect the laws, customs and practices that apply here. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to succeed in integration, we must both raise the level of ambition and measure how it actually works. Therefore, we Moderates propose a new overall goal for immigration to be good for Sweden as a whole. This does not apply to each individual or every year, but as a whole and over time. As in other areas, the legitimacy of immigration and integration policy is based on the fact that it makes Sweden better, not worse. Integration does not take place in any kind of vacuum, but is directly related to migration. If integration problems are to be resolved, our reception of asylum must be considerably lower than it is today. It requires policies that reduce the number of migrants who come here, including clear livelihood requirements for family migration and that immigrants gradually qualify for benefits and welfare benefits through work. That is why, Madam President, our three parties agree to work together for migration policy reforms after the next elections on the basis of the following starting points: that asylum legislation should be adapted to the minimum legal level laid down by EU law; that labour immigration should be restricted by, among other things, a ban on the replacement of tracks; and that the work on illegal immigration and people in Sweden should be given priority. I could comment on much that has been said here by representatives of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. We will have the opportunity to debate later, because I note that a number of lines have been requested. I would really just like to comment on one thing that Anna Johansson of the Social Democrats said. She mentioned, among other things, the start-up jobs, which the government is about to introduce. If I had been a political secretary to Anna Johansson, I would have said that whatever she does, she will never ever take up the start-up jobs. Why not? Because Anna Johansson stood here in 2018 and explained that next year will the start-up jobs. Let us remember then that the start-up jobs were worked by the social partners before the last election, and in 2018 Anna Johansson was here to explain that next year the start-up jobs will come. In 2019 Anna Johansson stood here and explained that next year will the start-up jobs. In 2020 Anna Johansson was here and explained that next year will be the start-up jobs. Now, three years after the proposal was presented, Anna Johansson is still here and says that next year will the start-up jobs. It says quite a lot about this government's slowness with regard to almost all labour market policy efforts that three years later, despite all the repeated promises, it has still not introduced the creation jobs, which are aimed above all at those foreign born who have never had a foothold on the Swedish labour market in the first place. We have the opportunity to debate more in the lines then, but I think it is somewhat provocative that we are still standing here and promising to introduce the start-up jobs when we have not done so in three years. Finally, Madam President, I have now only listed a small part of all that is needed for a long-term sustainable integration policy. In Sweden, everyone should be able to build a good future for themselves and their children with their own strength. Today, however, the failure of integration divides our society in a dangerous way. It affects our entire country and everyone who lives, lives and works here. But we are convinced that it is possible to reverse developments and bring a majority of the Swedish people – quite independently of their origin – to a new and better course. This budget is the first step towards that.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1264	Madam President, I would like I know we all want to go home to our loved ones. But I have tried to get answers from Mats Green to a couple of questions, both individually and in committee. Now I think it's the third time it's a charm and it's got my fingers crossed because I'm getting answers to the questions. I will honestly say that I was also very confused with Mats Green's speech. It raised a lot of new questions. One of them concerns what Mats Green said about the difficulty of moving from grants to work. Mats Green can think about Wednesday's debate on why, if this is problematic, any contribution that can be increased should be increased. But that debate will take place on Wednesday. The question today is why the Moderates, together with SD and KD, choose to convert a loan into a grant and send the bill to the local government sector. That is SEK 167 million, and the principle of financing must apply. It doesn't, so I wonder what the Moderates have been thinking. That's one question. The second question concerns the closure of Delmos. Do Mats Green and the Moderates think that it is reasonable to close one authority in this way – that from one year to another you just hijack it? It is an authority responsible for allocating SEK 500 million in state grants based on knowledge and facts. Is it not better to use the 18 million that the agency costs to use these 500 million more effectively?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1269	Madam President, I would like I can start with the last question. First, some factual corrections to what the honourable Member says. No, Delmos doesn't distribute 500 million. It distributes 250 million. The other 250 million is distributed by the National Board of Health and Welfare. When it comes to Delmos in general, we should remember that Sweden does not solve its major segregation problems with more authorities. Had it solved Sweden's segregation problems, we would not have had any segregation problems at all to begin with. I have every respect for Delmos; I myself sit on the Transparency Council there. But let's remember that Delmos has 15 employees. What we need to focus on is real efforts to solve segregation. It is above all to get more people into the labour market, not more authorities in Sweden. The second issue concerns home equipment loans, which have in fact always been a home equipment grant. That's what it's been from the beginning. In high terms, this would possibly mean increased costs for the entire municipal sector of a maximum of SEK 40 million. It's if we count high, but let's be generous and do it. However, let us remember that our budget from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats brings the local government sector 3 billion more than possibly just 40 million in increased costs. I think we need to put this into perspective. Above all, it is a matter of doing what the chairmen of the Centre Council write to me about: getting a sustainable migration and integration policy where not all costs are passed on to the local government sector.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1275	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Green for the lecture on what the Centre Council Chairs are actually doing, which, however, is not true. They'll be in touch with their colleagues. So this is how it is: 167 million is going to be 40 million, and the principle of financing in this area of expenditure is not going to apply. That's what they say. Then Mats Green says that these 18 million are not effective and so on. That is how I interpret the non-answers that I have received in committee on one occasion. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask another question. Mats Green mentioned that immigration over time should in some way be positive. Then I wonder a little bit how Mats Green and the Moderates have thought about counting on it. A few years ago, I wrote an article in the Express on the costs and revenues of immigration. I urge Mats Green to read it, because it is not that simple to measure things. We can go back in history and work back and forth with what should be considered revenue and what should be considered costs. I would like to hear, for the sake of this debate, how Mats Green and the Moderates have thought about counting on this, so that everyone has a chance to enrich the state of knowledge.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1280	Madam President, I would like I am happy to present the emails and letters that I have received from the Centre Party Chairman of the Municipal Board, including in my county, Jönköping County, and which were actually addressed to the group leaders of the parties of the then January agreement. They asked: How did one think when one had an extremely generous reception but no plan for how all these would get into work, so that, consequently, everyone landed in the local government sector? I'll show them to you later. I would be happy to discuss all the costs that have been passed on to the municipalities. As the old Chairman of the Municipal Council, I also uphold the principle of financing. However, it is still the case that just under 40 million in increased costs for the entire municipal sector in Sweden will be set against the 3 billion more to the municipal sector that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are now pushing through in this budget. We have also run over the Center Party in these years, among other things, which during the pandemic wanted to give significantly less to the local government sector than we wanted to do. Then, Madam President, I can think it is a bit strange when Mrs Akhondi is talking warmly about the great importance that Delmos has for the fight against segregation in Sweden. A little over a month ago, he wrote a debate article with other center parties about everything you wanted to do to combat segregation, everything you saw would play a role there and what tools you wanted to use. It is strange that Delmos was not even mentioned in one word, if it matters so much. It is also strange that the Center Party, what I remember, has never mentioned Delmos at all before in debates here when it was about segregation. That's interesting.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1283	Madam President, I would like I was also going to ask about the home equipment loans. However, I do not think I am getting an answer either, so I am abstaining from it. I can begin by saying that both Mats Green and I are pleased that Mats Green are not my political secretary, or whatever it was expressed. The creation jobs will have the opportunity to talk more about when we discuss labour market policy in a few days' time, I think. In fact, I had several questions concerning the few proposals that deviate from the government's budget in this area. As for Delmos first: Apart from the authority, I would really like to know if the Moderates think that segregation is a problem in society, if, according to the Moderates, there is a need for a common, coherent policy to break the segregation and how the Moderates think that this policy should be kept together, followed and ensured. There are, of course, a lot of policy required here to achieve results. My second question is whether the Moderates are happy with the company. We have heard rather racist or at least very prejudiced expressions from the speaker's seat here today, and I think I also sense such a slip in the speech by Mats Green. Are we in this country valiant to appoint scapegoats, or should we try to focus on solving the social problems we actually have? What is the point of blacking out development and individual people coming from other countries? Do Mats Green and the Moderates really believe that it solves any social problems?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1288	Madam President, I would like In order to solve social problems, I think you have to start by admitting them. What did Anna Johansson choose to talk about in her opening speech? Well, she chose to talk about the labour market committee's procedures for sending out documents. She was talking about the start-up jobs, and maybe we raised her eyebrows, and why would she want to talk about it? Then she claimed that the government's governance of the Arbetsförmedlingen was good, when we have a number of national audit reports saying that it is more or less non-existent. So Anna Johansson does not mention a single word about Sweden having the EU's fourth highest unemployment rate. We are the country with the greatest division between domestic and foreign born in terms of unemployment. No other country except Romania has this split. The number of long-term unemployed is at record levels, while two out of three long-term unemployed are not born in Sweden. Ten years ago, it was one of three. I could go on in all eternity. We are of the perhaps somewhat old-fashioned view that segregation and unemployment are primarily solved through more ways into the labour market. Therefore, we want to invest in extremely effective measures, such as new start jobs and more, while you want to invest in extra services where 4% get a job later. It is mainly about the fact that, as Josefin Malmqvist talked about here earlier, they want to remove the unemployed from the labour market statistics. You still do not have a single measure to get more immigrants into work. That is what this debate is about.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1292	Madam President, I would like No, that is not really what this debate is about. This debate is about the establishment of newcomers in general, and it is not just about work. We will have a debate here on Wednesday on labour market policy more comprehensively. I will very much like to discuss more about extra services at that time. This is an important measure, which I also mentioned. I do not know whether Mats Green did not listen to my speech or whether he has very selective hearing, but I hope that the audience heard what I actually talked about in my introduction. Nevertheless, I would like to know whether Mats Green believes that suspicion and scapegoat thinking solve social problems. The people who suffer the effects of segregation are very much the same people as Mats Green and others are here in the speaker's chair and would like to blame. Although we have many people with different backgrounds from ethnic Swedish who do not have a job, the fault may not lie primarily with those people. It's about the fact that we have an shortcomings in society. I wonder again: does Mats Green like it in the company? My stomach hurts a little when I listen to the debate here. Does Mats Green ever get a bit of pain in the stomach over where the public debate is going when it comes to the view of fellow human beings in this country? I can add a question: Does Mats Green think that health care would have worked a single day in this country – or public transport, or industry, or really any industry – if we had not had people with different backgrounds who had taken the jobs that people with Swedish background actually quite often do not want? It's not that no people with a background other than Swedish work. On the contrary, like us who were born here, they carry this country up every day.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1297	Madam President, I would like I know what Anna Johansson really has a stomach ache over. What she really says is: Please Mats Green, stop standing here and torment me with too much factual knowledge! Because that is still what we are discussing. She doesn't want to talk about start-up jobs, even though she mentioned them in her own main speech. She doesn't want to talk about Arbetsförmedlingen, even though she mentioned it in her main speech. She doesn't want to talk about work at all, because that's what we're gonna do on Wednesday. That probably says a lot about the social democrats' way of looking at segregation. We're not gonna talk about work, because this has nothing to do with it. It belongs to another area of expenditure. That might say everything about the quite different entrances that we have. And then she's talking about us being guilty. No, who's ever blamed anyone here? We say that we have a common problem that we have to solve jointly. It is that we have many people, especially people born abroad, who have never ever had a foothold in the Swedish labour market at all. That is the focus of this budget, and that is what we have proposals to resolve. And then Anna Johansson has pain in her stomach that we should now discuss segregation instead of doing so on Wednesday. This is what it is all about, i.e. getting these women, particularly women born abroad, whom Anna Johansson has certainly never discussed in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, into the labour market. We have found that Arbetsförmedlingen has more or less sorted out many of them from supporting efforts. We have also had a report from the Swedish National Audit Office on this. But again, segregation is about getting more people into the Swedish labour market now and not getting more authorities.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1301	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say to Mats Green that the right of asylum is not a commercial activity. It gets a little weird when he talks about asylum seekers as profitable or unprofitable. It's a very strange rhetoric, I think. But that's not why I asked for a line. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have been at the forefront in using a very high tone regarding gang crime and integration, and they have largely embraced the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats. I am the first to admit that we have problems with gang crime in Sweden, but the debate is not conducted in a sober way. In my neighborhood, Angered, which counts as a vulnerable area, there are about 50,000 people. Today we have about 5,000 gang criminals throughout the country. By comparison, we have 15 000 foreign-born doctors in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Moderate Mats Green how he and his party can contribute to a social climate that seeks to make crime a question of ethnicity. In this connection, I would also like to ask what he thinks will be better if the expert authority in this area, Delmos, is closed down.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1305	Madam President, I would like A prerequisite for solving our major societal problems is that we acknowledge them. Should we stand here and pretend that Sweden does not have shootings and that we are not the worst in the EU in terms of that? Should we also pretend that we do not know that a large part of this crime is, unfortunately, almost exclusively taking place in the areas that we are now discussing? I think that the Green Party, if it had meant what Leila Ali-Elmi is now saying, would have voted in favour of the strong strengthening of the entire judiciary as proposed by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in this budget. Are there fewer police officers in alienation areas that we need? Is it less resources for the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Finnish Customs and the Criminal Service that we need in the fight against serious crime? Of course it is not, but more is needed, and that is why we are also proposing more. I still do not understand why you will vote against it. Then I would also like to ask you a question. Why has the Green Party not made sure that you have the start-up jobs in place that have been promised for three years and that Anna Johansson absolutely did not want to talk about in this debate because it was obviously offensive, even though she had included them in her opening speech? Why have the start-up jobs not been introduced, and how does Leila Ali-Elmi-Elmi see the fact that it is under this government that Sweden has got the biggest gap between domestic born in jobs and foreign born in jobs in the EU? How can one defend such a thing?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1308	Madam President, I would like That the Moderate Mats Green is standing here telling me to admit that there is gang crime and shooting, I find almost laughable, to be honest. I live in Angered, and I know much more about gang crime and how it affects other people living around that environment than Mats Green does. The debate on job creation and unemployment rates will take place on Wednesday, and I will be happy to answer your questions then. I'm going back to what Mats Green said here earlier. He finds it very difficult to stick to the debate and talks about other investments in other areas of expenditure. We have tightened up over 60 sentences, Madam President. We have invested in the police and expanded the entire judiciary. Unlike Mats Green, I do not have populist solutions to social problems. The problems of gang crime and segregation are problems that will not be resolved over a term of office, and I think that politicians and Members of Parliament should debate responsibly and have a rhetoric that is responsible rather than promising citizens solutions that do not come. Back to my question: How do we solve this with segregation, Mats Green? Do we solve this by closing down Delmos? Are we solving this with rhetoric based on suspicion and suspicion of a large proportion of our citizens?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1313	Madam President, I would like Leila Ali-Elmi is right about one thing, and that is that I am not from Angered. I come from the outside area of Öxnehaga – I was born and raised there – in Huskvarna. I don't claim to know what you think in Angered, but I have a little difficulty believing that Leila Ali-Elmi, if someone at home in Angered comes and asks how the Green Party wants to combat segregation, says: I don't want to talk about work, because it's another area of spending, but I want to talk about Delmos. And if she does, I don't think anyone will say: Yes, it is important to us that we retain Delmos with its 15 associates. I dare say no one in Angered says that. I'll be a little worse and say I don't think anyone in Angered knows what Delmos is. I will even be worse and say that even if they had known what it was, no one would have said that Delmos plays a particularly important role there. In fact, I dare to say that most people would instead have said: I would need a job, because I want to support myself and know that my children will also get a job and that they will get a first-class education where everyone can succeed. Even if you were born and raised in Somalia, you should be able to say: I have a fairly realistic hope of becoming a professor of Swedish. We shall have such good schools and such a good education, but above all, jobs and security are A and O. Then one might think that police officers and investments in the Prison Service and more prosecutors are hard. But it is quite tough and tough problems that we are going to fight, and then it is also, along with the rest, that is needed. You might answer completely differently in Angered, but I really don't think so. I'm so brazen.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1317	Madam President, I would like I have sat here and noted the organic division of labour that has arisen in the blue-brown gang and where Mats Green has taken on the role and responsibility for selling Swedish democrats' politics and rhetoric to the economically better people in society. In this context, I also note that if you understand integration for what it is, namely that people coming to Sweden from other countries are approaching the majority population in terms of, for example, income, working conditions and housing, you can see that the Moderates consistently have a very strong policy of increasing what we call segregation and reducing what we call integration. However, a gap that Mats Green seems to be very interested in is the gap in employment rates between native and foreign born. That's interesting. Sweden is the country in the EU where the largest proportion of the population is working. The share of foreign born people working in Sweden is higher than the average employment rate in other EU countries. This situation has been built up by structures and actions that the Moderates have consistently opposed historically. Now we note that the Moderates take decades of step back in time to find their soul, so to speak. That is why I wonder whether Mats Green has perhaps intended to remove the gap in employment rates between native and foreign born by simply pushing down the employment rate of natives. That is how I perceive your policy. Feel free to develop!
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1322	Madam President, I would like It is always interesting to hear how the Left Party perceives moderate politics. As far as employment rates are concerned, one might sometimes think that the price we pay for too high an employment rate is extremely high unemployment, which, of course, is not the case. Norway has an employment rate that is in line with Sweden's, but they have much lower unemployment rates. The employment rate is a concept that can be discussed. We'd rather talk about self-sufficiency. Ali Esbati will never want to discuss this, especially in view of the fact that we think it is a problem that half of all foreign born of working age in Sweden is not self-sufficient. With regard to the rhetorical issue of Ali Ali, we believe that unemployment needs to be reduced for all groups in Sweden but especially for those where it is the biggest problem, where it is most widespread and, above all, where it increased most during the time Ali Ali's party was involved in the budget work. It's been a few years since you haven't been. But now, as I understand it, you've come back again. Just regret it from a job point of view. We have put forward a number of proven effective proposals – new start jobs are one of them – to get more foreign born into work. I miss this completely and completely in the Left Party's draft budget. It would be interesting to hear more about the proposals that we have not been able to read in the budget. What does it look like from the Left Party?
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1327	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a tradition of a lot of good public statistics that concern most of the labour market and the economy in many areas. One area that is missing is, for example, wealth statistics. That's because the Moderates were involved in taking away the wealth tax. That's why we know a little less about moderate core voters than before. I can see that Mats Green speaks very untruth and says many things that are highly misleading. He just passed on the question of the employment rate, that is, the proportion of the population in work, regardless of how unemployment is measured. I understand that Mats Green does not like those statistics. It goes against his entire world view and understanding of how things work. But facts are facts. The discussion on self-sufficiency is also very misleading. I think Mats Green really knows that. But now it's the talk points he's got from his party chancellor, and he's going on it. None of this alters the fact that the policy of the Right in Sweden, which has been presented here on a point-by-point, almost by definition, makes segregation worse and makes integration less possible. Those who have come to Sweden will not, with your policy, approach the majority population in terms of work, economic conditions and housing. That is the essence of your policy. What's Mats Green doing at that point? Well, he uses the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats to make us think of something else. I'm sorry about that.
i-21e02b4adcd0e1b2-1332	Madam President, I would like I have to be inconspicuous, because I do not quite understand Mr Ali's question. Does he mean in all seriousness that the fact that we have the EU's perhaps highest unemployment rate among immigrants and the biggest gap between foreign and domestic born in terms of unemployment is really a health sign? Is there something we should be happy about and stop talking about so much, at least in this area of expenditure? The general strategy of the red-green parties seems to be that we should take it on Wednesday, that it does not belong to this matter. Well, I guess it's just about that, Madam President. How can you post it as a sign of health that it looks like it does? I still note that this fact is not really denied. Of course, when the Moderates last had government responsibility for the country, long-term unemployment was much lower. But then we thought it was a problem that one in three long-term unemployed were born abroad. Today, we think it is twice the problem that two out of three long-term unemployed people were born abroad. Ali Esbati does not think that is a problem at all. I asked if I could get a single example of what the Left Party has proposed to remedy this. Just give me one example! I did not get the only example at all. There we see what we have to expect from the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party.
