i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-5	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Jacobsson has asked me if I have taken the view that the logistical traffic flow from Norway along the E6 can pose a risk for the spread of the infection and whether I will take any initiatives to establish a border control system for covid-19 aimed at lorry drivers. The government is, of course, closely monitoring the development of the new Corona virus and is in constant contact with the responsible authorities and with other countries in order to prevent further spread and loss of human life in the best possible way. Covid-19 is an international matter that requires coordinated action. The Council has said from the outset that the necessary measures will be taken to prevent and reduce the spread of the corona virus. One such measure is the introduction of a temporary entry ban to stop unnecessary journeys to the EU in line with the recommendations of the European Council and the Commission. The government has in the past followed the measures agreed at EU level to avoid entry bans and which groups should not be covered by them, thus not imposing entry bans in relation to other EEA countries such as Norway. These are exceptional measures, and it is important that they do not affect individuals more than is necessary. However, reporting on the spread of infection and a new variant of the Corona virus have given rise to new measures. As the situation changes, the government must also be prepared to change the way it is managed. Temporary entry bans in relation to the UK, Denmark and Norway as well as a general entry ban for foreign citizens who cannot present a negative covid-19 test on arrival in Sweden have therefore been introduced. These are very strong measures which the government has judged absolutely necessary in the current situation. The original prohibition does not apply to persons who have special needs or who are required to perform the necessary functions in Sweden. This may be the case, for example, for staff transporting goods or for other personnel in the transport sector. It is essential that the transport of important goods, such as food and medicines, is not made more difficult. The European Commission has also recommended that Member States make exceptions for ersons transporting goods. An explicit derogation for staff in the transport sector has therefore also been decided in relation to the stricter entry bans applicable to the UK, Denmark and Norway. For the same reason, the requirement for a foreigner subject to an exemption from an entry ban to present a negative test response for ongoing c ovid-19 infection on entry for personnel in the transport sector does not apply either. The need for measures to prevent further spread of infection and the impact of the measures taken is constantly being analysed, and I do not rule out the possibility of further measures being considered in the future.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-11	Mr President, I would like to Many of us in Sweden live close to us, have friends and relatives and live in a border area. It is a border area characterised by trade and a common labour market, a common family and a common ownership in some cases. Land or real estate is owned on both sides of the border. The situation that has now arisen is, of course, deeply painful. We see how you've placed the home guard, the military and the police along a border. We have not really seen anything like this since World War II. I don't even think it was as tense when Norway became independent. We get reports in our media hemic ring. It is individuals who feel that they are being bullied. Why? They happen to be Swedes and go to work in Norway. We are now also seeing, especially with the latest closures, the situation of individuals employed in Norway. The company has not laid off because it really needs labour. Then the employees won't get paid. They can't go to the job they have. They don't get paid. There is no compensation system here, and there is no compensation system in which they receive compensation under the Norwegian regulations. This is, of course, deeply frustrating for all who are in that situation. They have monthly payments to be made that they suddenly cannot do. If they're lucky, they have relatives and others who can back up. At the same time, truck after truck after truck across Svinesundsbro – it is trucks and drivers that may have been in Warsaw, Copenhagen, Berlin, Gothenburg or Oslo – completely unchecked and all in accordance with what the Minister described on the basis of EU guidelines. It'll be very hard to understand. In my home country in Bohuslän, Dalsland, we had for a very long time significantly lower sickness rates than we had on the other side of the border. Yet our people, our employees, were exposed to a situation where they were criticized because we had high sickness rates in Gothenburg 200 km away. At the same time, truck after truck rolls in without control. It'll be inconsistent. Many of us are beginning to worry. We've been hit by two waves. I certainly will not be one of those who says that one has done right or wrong. I am the first to admit that this is perhaps one of the processes that I personally find most difficult politically. Some have spoken of a hidden invisible enemy. I have the greatest respect for the work that Acko Ankarberg Johansson does in the Social Committee together with the government in different contexts. I'm really respectful of that, because this is hard. But it still gets very strange if you close a border in one direction, and then it is completely open where we see that you are at risk of taking infection with you. We now have a situation where the Oslo area has received both the variant from the UK and the variant from South Africa. In my home country, we've already been hit twice. Where I am, NU healthcare has had a tough time, and there are no checks at all at Svinesund Bridge. It will be strange, Mr President.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-21	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, interpellant, for an important discussion! These are exceptional times. It is a global pandemic that strikes Sweden, Europe and the world. It has also posed major challenges, not least in the Nordic cooperation, as the countries have been affected by the spread of infection differently. In particular, countries have initially had completely different conditions for dealing with the spread of infection. I have great respect for that. I have had several meetings with representatives of border municipalities and regions to discuss how it has been experienced and what has happened to business. It has also been about how we have experienced the rivalry that has arisen and some negative notes between our countries that we are not used to. It is dangerous and can in the long term challenge Nordic cooperation and is something that I think we need to be very observant about. When we received information that the Norwegian Public Health Authority was concerned about some form of uncontrolled cluster outbreak in the Oslo area, we introduced a very rapid entry ban on Norway. In addition, when we make the assessment that it is very difficult to know from which countries the mutated versions of the virus actually come and where this is widespread or not, the Public Health Authority has recommended that we introduce testing requirements for all adults who enter, but with defined exceptions. One of these exceptions, as the interpellier describes, is the transport sector. It is not only Sweden that applies such a regime, but it actually does the whole of Europe. It has been a bit back and forth; right at the beginning of the coronapandemy, several countries closed the borders completely and for everyone, including the transport sector. There were mile - long queues of truck transport, and it turned out that these trucks also contained medical equipment and protective equipment that did not get to where it was supposed to go, to health care. We had a later example of this between the United Kingdom and France, where France for a short period required testing for lorry drivers. There were quite chaotic scenes in Britain, including empty shelves in the shops. One must therefore be very careful when considering such measures and their effects, not just on the spread of infection. It is also about the social consequences they can have for health care, for vaccine programmes, for industry, or whatever it may be, who need their inputs. So far, Sweden has wanted to follow the European recommendations, and we have been very worried about countries that have put in place such kinds of stops. It is not the case that the Public Health Agency has come to us and said: we believe that this is a major source of infection, and that is why we want you to limit this. Rather, they have pointed out in various submissions to the government that the transport sector must be able to continue to function. At least we have not received any reports to us that this is what drives cluster outbreaks in Sweden. We now have a large cluster outbreak in Skellefteå linked to Northvolt's facility. It is workers who live together for a very long time. They socialize not only at work but also outside work, and they have canteens that are quite small. These are the things that create these cluster outbreaks that we have seen in different places in the country. We are following this issue closely, but I certainly would not like to see a situation in which we are beginning to cause this to happen also for freight flows between our neighbouring countries. I think that would have even greater consequences than those we now see.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-33	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I think I and the minister are very much in agreement. We are very well aware of the problems that arose when, in parts of the EU, the border was also closed and called for the control of lorry drivers. The problem is that what is happening now is perceived as extremely unfair. Believe me – we who live in Bohuslän and who regularly travel on Svinesundsbron realize very well that even if it had only been two three minutes to get a really fast test, the queues would probably have gone from Svinesund to Oslo. So many trucks go on this stretch. But that's also where it gets so strange when those who live along the border, where for most of the pandemic they haven't had any disease numbers to talk about, have still been prevented from getting to work. At the same time, we have a transport sector, which is, of course, absolutely necessary, where there are no major controls at all. It is clear that this is perceived as unfair when Swedish business, for example, in Strömstad to 90-95 per cent have lost their trade. Despite actions by the parliament and government, you are entering a situation where you have to warn and dismiss people. At the same time, truck rolls after truck with a risk of cluster disease. It is clear that it is perceived as unfair, and it is clear that it is unfortunately felt that a long Nordic cooperation has been replaced by nationalism. A long Nordic collaboration where we have always tried to find solutions together has changed in a situation where you look more at yourself than at others. I think this is problematic. I am only a substitute for the Nordic Council, but I know that my colleague Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has raised this on several occasions and talked about how important it is to protect Nordic cooperation. One solution could, of course, be to exempt border municipalities. That is not where the major outbreaks of disease have been, and it would have mitigated the effects between our countries. To some extent this has also been done on the border between Sweden and Finland. My question remains. As we now tighten up the rules for the resident population, it is perceived as unfair when one lorry after another rolls out of the Oslo area completely without control, where we know that there is a new variant of infection – an infection that we absolutely do not want to have to Bohuslän, Dalsland or any other part of the Swedish home country.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-41	Mr President, I would like to When we discuss these issues, I think it is important to consider how Sweden acts, because it is easy to discuss how other countries act. There have been comments throughout the coronapdemin on Norway's rather forward-looking decisions on which rules will apply. They have had a system where they circle in zones, regions and so on. They have applied this, and we recognise that Norway has the right to take the decisions that it believes are necessary to maintain public health in Norway, just as we have the right to make the decisions in Sweden that we believe protect public health in our country. It's a national decision. I can only regret that we have not had more of a common position on this. On the other hand, I think that Sweden's actions now during the pandemic also play a long-term role. We are not going to get into a discussion that if you do that, we are going to do this, but we have to start from what the Public Health Agency thinks are the major risk of infection. Where are the uncertainties, and which areas should we address? It is still the case that we generally have a much greater spread of infection in Sweden than in Norway. Only yesterday or the day before yesterday, the Public Health Agency concluded that we probably have a social spread of the mutated British variant. It makes perfect sense, because when a mutated virus variant that constantly mutates – and this virus will continue to mutate – and becomes more contagious, it will take over after some time. It is, in substance, entirely in line with how a virus like this tends to act. We have tried to slow down the growth of the mutated virus in Sweden, but we cannot stop it and prevent it from existing because it takes over other virus variants in the long term. We are trying to reduce this, which is why we have closed the border and introduced entry control and testing requirements for Norway and Denmark. But it has been a lighter regime against Finland because they have less infection and very few cases of the mutated virus variant. We have thus handled the Nordic countries from a disease-protection perspective, and I think it is important to continue to do so in Sweden. We're not gonna get carried away with this. If you do that, we're gonna do this. Instead, we should start from our picture of the spread of the disease. As far as the border area is concerned, we have introduced a regulatory framework that does not require the 48-hour rule for those who, for example, work commutes. Instead, you can do a test a week. But we do not decide what rules apply on the Norwegian side, so some of this interpellation debate should be held in the Norwegian Parliament! It is Norway that decides which rules apply for entry into Norway. However, I believe that the social consequences and risks to other social factors are quite great if we start to restrict and hinder freight traffic to our country. Sweden is a small country. There are very few sectors in our country where we are completely self-sufficient. Almost all our sectors depend on trade with other countries. If we start to switch off transport flows to or from Sweden, it can have huge consequences for our country, and we really need to think about that if we are to consider such a thing. At the moment, the government has not wanted to propose any such restrictions. We believe that there would be huge consequences, and Sweden would be very lonely in Europe to propose such a thing. I know that no EU country has introduced such rules at the moment, and I do not think that Sweden should be the first on that journey.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-50	Mr President, I would like to I agree very much with what the Minister has to say. What I have wanted to point out is a deep sense of injustice. I am well aware that the Norwegian line has been to look at counties and regions. In this context, the whole of Västra Götaland has become a zone. Although, for example, Dals-Ed and Strömstad, and Töcksfors if we go to the Värmland side, basically had no infection during large parts of the pandemic, these areas have still been considered Stockholm and Gothenburg. This doesn't make sense. I am grateful that the Swedish measures have been much more cautious. We must realise that these are really two pandemics. It is a disease pandemic, but it is also an economic pandemic. We have small companies in the restaurant industry, in the tourism industry and in many other parts that are extremely hard hit by this, and in the border area, as I have said, those who have worked for a long time in one of our neighbouring countries, in accordance with the tradition we have, are particularly hard hit. The Nordic region is indeed the area in the world that has gone the farthest with a mutual free trade where many of the municipalities are in practice joint labour market regions. Right now, this is being torn apart. Mr President, I would like to I am very grateful for the answers I have received. I have also wanted to raise the situation of border residents. This is a pain for many of us. We see something we took for granted suddenly changing, and at the same time we feel that it is unfair.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-54	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellation, because this is important. I hope that we can conduct this discussion in all Nordic parliaments in the future. I think we have something very unique in our Nordic cooperation. It has benefited us. Looking at the economic strength of our Nordic countries together, we are one of the largest economies in the world. It is therefore clear that it has major consequences when our business and people are affected by border barriers in border areas. I have a very great respect for the feeling that the Nordic countries were not able to handle this in the way we would have liked. On the other hand, we should be humble and say that Sweden was initially hit harder by the spread of infection. Norway had less infection and thus perhaps the feeling that one could delimit itself in a more effective way than a country like Sweden could do. I have great respect for the fact that they have to make their decisions. I think we can learn from this crisis. We need to learn from it. I see that there have been unreasonable consequences in many border areas under parts of this. This applies not only to Norway; for Denmark we also had a situation when the spread of infection was greater in the Copenhagen area than in the Malmö area. Then Denmark had closed to Sweden while Sweden was open to Denmark. We had this because we were based on what we considered to be long-term important and the most effective anti-infectious measures. I think that Sweden should try to stick to that line. This is good for Sweden in the long term, and it is good for the Nordic countries in the long term. I also believe that we must try to find ways to learn from this crisis for the future.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-59	Mr President, I would like to Adam Marttinen has asked me whether the government intends to reconsider the basis for detention under the Special Alien Control Act so that people who pose terrorist threats can be locked up on the grounds of securing our country rather than on the grounds of simplifying an impending expulsion. Adam Marttinen has also asked me how the government feels about tightening up the operation of the Special Alien Control Act in certain respects. Lars Beckman has asked me what temporary or other measures I intend to take in the near future so that persons who are considered to be a security risk, according to the Swedish Security Service, cannot be present in the open society. Lars Beckman has also asked me when legislation will be in place so that people who are considered a danger to Sweden do not stay out in the open society. The fight against terrorism is a very high priority for the government. It is of the utmost importance that the Security Service should locate people in our country who pose a security threat and, if they are foreign nationals, apply for expulsion. The Swedish Security Service is therefore continuously working to prevent and expose crimes against Sweden's security and to combat terrorism. Prior to the execution of expulsion decisions, people are not able to work in Sweden, and their freedom of movement is severely restricted because they are required to notify. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that, like other countries, we are bound by our international commitments on human rights. V i cannot therefore enforce expulsion decisions if the individual is at risk of torture or other inhumane treatment. Nor can we place these individuals in detention indefinitely. The work within the Government Office to meet the threats facing Sweden is intensifying now. There is now a proposal for a new law to replace the law on special foreign control. In the study on which work is based, it is proposed, among other things, that a foreigner be expelled if he or she is likely to commit certain criminal offences. The proposal therefore provides for a reduction in the requirement to expel someone on this basis. The investigation also proposes a change of regulation regarding the possibility of taking these people into custody. Among other things, it is proposed to extend the period of so-called enforcement detention. It also proposes, among other things, greater possibilities for the use of coercive measures to gain greater control over these persons and increased penalties for infringements of the duty to notify. The proposals made by the investigation are in line with what the Swedish Security Service has asked about how these individuals should be handled. It is therefore important that legislation is now reviewed. It is now important and appropriate for this process to continue and for new tightening up to take place. The government is following the issue closely.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-66	Mr President, I would like to The threat from the violent Islamic environment has been a recurring problem for Sweden, not least because we have very many Islamic extremists in our country. The Swedish Security Service has for a number of years made the assessment that this is the biggest threat and has been the fastest growing threat for Sweden. Unfortunately, we have also had our fair share of terrorist attacks, not least in view of the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan on 7 April 2017. During this time we have also had two terrorist agreements between the bourgeois parties and the Red-Green Government. However, the Swedish Democrats have not entered into any of these agreements with the government. For the Swedish Democrats, I can only say that we differ very much when it comes to the work against terrorism from the agreements that the government has made with the bourgeois parties. In this interpellation debate, I highlight the very group of foreigners who are part of the violent Islamist environment – of course there are also other extremists, but it has proved to be just violent Islamists who have been on the agenda. A few years ago, I believe, six imams were taken into consideration by the Security Service, which was judged to be a threat to national security under the Special Alien Control Act. They were taken into custody but could not then be expelled for various reasons because they risked an immaculate treatment or similar in their home countries. There were a number of different countries of origin – Iraq was one of them – where people were previously expelled for other reasons. In these particular cases, however, it turned out that the Migration Court of Appeal indicated that there were enforcement obstacles but that at the same time there was the possibility of changing these obstacles. Of course, it is urgent that the government works to remove enforcement barriers as soon as possible. There, the Swedish Democrats have pressed the Committee on Justice to work with diplomatic guarantees, which is also mentioned by the Migration Court as an opportunity to remove enforcement barriers. We have not seen that these people have been expelled, and it is clear that the work on this front has not been very successful on the part of the government. When it is not possible to expel these individuals, the Swedish Democrats also highlight other proposals, such as a new basis for arrest. Today, these people are only allowed to be detained with a view to facilitating expulsion, so that they do not go underground in the meantime from being found to be expelled until they can be expelled. The Swedish Democrats simply propose to have a new basis for arrest. If you notice that people are planning to commit terrorist attacks or the like, you must be able to take other people into custody who may pose a broader threat in this environment or perhaps assist those who are planning the attack. We choose to call it security, that is, taking people into custody with regard to national security rather than facilitating expulsion. This encounters some kind of opposition from the government and has done so before. We also highlight other issues about making restrictions for people to be expelled, such as municipal arrest. Today, apparently, you get to choose where to live when you are to be expelled and even though you pose a threat to national security. We think it may be a little unreasonable to have such great freedoms when you are a foreigner and pose a threat to national security. We therefore suggest that the state should decide where to live and which parts of the municipality you may visit with the control of electronic surveillance so that, for example, you are prevented from visiting mosques if you constitute such a threat. My question is whether this is something that the government can possibly handle.
i-6hrPDzVUH7RXnyUDc18h77	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This interpellation is therefore about people that the government has considered to be serious security threats to Sweden and the Swedish people. It is clear that it is a deeply unsatisfactory situation that we in the country have six people who, according to Säpo, have contributed to Islamic radicalisation and are deemed to pose such a danger to Sweden that they will be expelled. In connection with the expulsion decisions, the Finnish Immigration Service assessed that the expulsions could not be carried out because according to the Finnish Immigration Service, the men are at risk of persecution in their own country. This means, Mr President, that there are people out in the open society – in my hometown of Gävle, Gävleborg and in other places in Sweden – that the government considers to be a security risk. It is therefore people who pose a serious security threat to Sweden. In connection with the release of the imam and other persons, the Security Service stated that the legislation is old and needs to be reviewed. Mr President, I would like to What could be more important for a government and for a minister than to protect Sweden and protect Swedish citizens from terrorism? In this area, the government has broken. We all know how everyday crime has increased sharply. We all know that a car break-in does not lead to clearance. I and Mikael Damberg previously had an interpellation debate on the serious crime in Kilafors, where the population is being harassed and not getting any help from the state. If we look at the area by area, we see how it escalates and that this government has been lax and slow. It is perhaps not surprising, then, that the most serious threat to Sweden, namely terrorism and security risks, is not satisfactory. I noticed that in November 2019 Mikael Damberg said to Dagens Eko : This issue is important, and we are working on it and will make sure it is in place. But it is in slow motion, Mr President. If this is really a priority for the Government and the Government, why is it that the new legislation on special checks on foreigners is not in place? The period of referral expired on 1 July 2020. Since then, August, September, October, November, December, January and soon February have passed. I don't know if any bill is ready on the table yet. If this were a priority for the government, would this legislation have been in place considerably earlier? I cannot imagine that the Government and the Government are satisfied that people who pose a serious security risk are out in the open society in Sweden. Gävle residents have called me after they have seen the imam in the mosque and asked: This must be a joke, right? This can't be acceptable. This person is deemed to be a serious security risk and is present in the open society. Respect for legislation and Swedish authorities is seriously affected by this situation. I would like to know when the Government considers that new legislation may be in place.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-84	Mr President, the Minister for the Interior. It is a legal scandal that people who have been deemed to pose a threat to national security and have been expelled from Sweden for life can move freely and move anywhere in our country. The only requirement is that they have to appear with the police a few days a week for a certain time. The rest of the time, they can continue to carry on the dangerous activities of society and promote radicalisation. There is a well-organised Salafist-jihadist structure in many parts of the country. In Skåne alone there are groupings in four places: Hässleholm, Landskrona, Malmö and Arlöv. The Minister has previously stated that new legislation is urgently needed, but nothing has happened. These people are extremely dangerous, both in terms of their opinions, but also in terms of the way in which they operate and receive funding for their criminal activities. One of these imams was the head of a school funded by taxpayers' money. And not only that: he also had four employees who were returning IS-jihadists. It was a perfect environment for poisoning children with IS propaganda and counteracting all democratic values. The so-called Umeåimamen moved to Malmö five months ago. According to media information, he lives in a large newly purchased apartment in Rosengård. He has no income, and his wife has a disability pension. How can he afford this dwelling? Isn't that something the authorities should be looking at? That he moved to Malmö should make all the alarm bells ring. Malmö is the city in Sweden where the most people have travelled to join terrorist groups in Syria and Iraq. According to the National Defence College's report between Salafism and Salafist jihadism, there are links between crime and Salafist jihadism, and individuals move freely from one environment to the other. The terrorist Osama Krayem, charged with the attacks in Brussels, where 32 people lost their lives, is an example of this.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-89	The Minister refers to conventions signed by Sweden. Denmark has also done so, but it has nevertheless succeeded in expelling persons who threaten Denmark's security by obtaining diplomatic guarantees. Since 2010, Italy has expelled 19 imams linked to terrorist activities. Two of the imams expelled by Sweden come from Egypt and Iraq. These are countries where Sweden has embassies. It should be possible to obtain diplomatic guarantees. One of the exiles is the Chechen of Russian citizenship. The Foreign Minister was recently in Moscow, and I wonder if she raised the issue of diplomatic guarantees if Sweden expels this person.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-91	I would like to remind you that we should be careful when it comes to discussing the circumstances of individuals, such as how they make a living.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-92	Mr President, I would like to These are important issues we are discussing today. The Government has assessed that there are people who pose a security threat to Sweden and that they should be expelled. We therefore have a work that has come a long way. An investigation looks at modernising the legislation on which this is based. It is about additional possibilities to use secret coercive measures and to introduce municipal arrests and prohibitions, i.e. to limit where people can be. It is also about greater opportunities to put people in detention for a longer period of time and also to extend that period. The Security Service has welcomed the focus on the investigation work. I can assure you that we are working hard to get a bill and to be able to put it on Parliament's table as soon as possible. However, it should be linked to the increased penalties also proposed in the area of terrorism. It's another product. It is quite good if those products come at the same time, because the legislation is based on the penalties we have in relation to terrorism. The point is that these products should be synchronised, because we will then have the full effect of reviewing the legislation. We're working hard on it at the Justice Department, and we expect to be back soon. The issue of municipal arrest is a little more complicated. It lies in the investigation and is one of the proposals that we are now preparing in the Government Office. As far as detention is concerned for an indefinite period of time, it is easy to say that Sweden should introduce such a rule. But it is our assessment – including the legal bodies and the investigation that has looked at it, it says – that the European Commission sets the limit for detention decisions. One must have a basis for this, and there must be a link to, for example, a valid expulsion. On the day a court in Sweden decides that enforcement cannot be carried out, the government is thus bound by it. There's nothing the government can do or do anything else. We must comply with Swedish legislation. On the other hand, there is the question of whether the existing enforcement barriers can be removed. It's a process the government is working on. But we in this House should not imagine that it is easy, that it is not complex to work on the issue of diplomatic guarantees. The most famous case where it has been used is in the UK. That process went on for over ten years. And you still got criticism after the process because you hadn't followed the rules. So there are possibilities. But it's not easy. The government has an obligation to work for it. And we're gonna work for it. However, it is not appropriate either in public or in this House to discuss individual matters and how to deal with them. It is a matter of foreign relations, among other things. It might even make it difficult to work on such diplomatic guarantees if they were discussed in this context. But that is something the government is working on, as I have explained before. As for slow motion and slackness, I would like to distance myself from such careless statements. We're making very strong reinforcements to the Security Service. They get new tools, can work with signal reconnaissance and HDA. The police are also being greatly expanded, more than ever in modern political history. It is clear that it makes a difference and that it gives the judiciary new muscles both to combat ordinary crime and to intervene against and combat terrorism or dangerous elements in Sweden. So we are making a huge effort of security, which will continue to roll out. This question is one of the issues with which we will be returning to Parliament shortly.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-101	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we are more debaters against the Minister on this subject. This suggests a frustration among the opposition over the government's work in this area. Many questions have been raised. There are really two tracks here. One is the proposals where we do not agree with the government and where the government says flatly no. The second track is the proposals where we might find a way forward with the support of the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament. Municipal arrest is one such proposal. This could make it less attractive for foreigners to stay in Sweden and thus affect the possibility of them voluntarily leaving the country. However, the main track in the line of the Swedish Democrats is that as often as possible the grounds for enforcement obstacles should be reconsidered and perhaps make a bolder assessment of what an enforcement obstacle to expulsion means. I do not believe that there is always a real risk that individuals would be subjected to unwarranted treatment, capital punishment or the like. I believe that the assessments take very great account of very small risks. This assessment is also made by some terrorist scientists in some statements. They say that in those cases you have to balance what you think is most important. Either the most important thing is to protect the small risks for these individuals that pose a major threat to Sweden, or in the first instance they consider Sweden's security and expose them with a new understanding of their grounds for enforcement barriers. The question to which I would like an answer is: how often has the government reconsidered the grounds for non-execution in the specific cases that have been raised, such as the six imams? It is one thing to say that we are working actively on it, but we want to know what it means in concrete terms. What has the government actually done? Have new assessments been made, such as the basics of the six imams, and how often have they been made? The work of diplomatic guarantees may well be regarded as going like that, since no one has been expelled. That leaves all the proposals that are handled when the people are in Sweden. Another issue on the subject of restrictions on freedom of movement is whether the government is prepared to impose restrictions on freedom of movement within a municipality, so that, for example, imams which pose a security risk may not visit mosques. It may be relevant to restrict the freedom of people who network and radicalise others. They should not be allowed to be in environments where there may be a sensitivity to such messages. Is the government prepared to restrict freedom of movement, for example when it comes to the visits of the imams to mosques? These are my specific questions in this particular area. There are other questions as well. There are several reasons to discuss radical Islamism, such as IS women returning to Sweden. The Swedish Democrats believe that the withdrawal of citizenship would be important in this case. People who return without citizenship could also be included in the Special Alien Control Act. There is also opposition from the government. All in all, we can say that there is considerable pressure from the violent Islamic environment. It has been allowed to grow, and it has been allowed to remain in Sweden. It is allowed by the government to continue to pose a major threat to our country. It's troubling. I look forward to receiving answers to some of the questions I have asked.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-112	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that it is an unsatisfactory situation that there are people out in open society that the government has assessed as a danger to Sweden. I think my colleague Boriana Åberg was overly clear about the consequences of the government's inability to protect Sweden. I'll take the government's word for it. It is a priority for the government. Anything else would be unthinkable. But then we will come back to the government's inability to deliver, for example with regard to diplomacy and the question asked by Boriana Åberg whether diplomatic guarantees have been sought. It is clear that it is easy for the Government to say that we cannot talk about it in this House. But what we can talk about is the consequence and the result of the government's work. Every time one of these people walks on the street in Gävle or is in a mosque on Fridays, it is a failure for the Swedish government. Every time a Gävlebo meets one of those people, it is possible to evaluate the work of the Government and the Government. Every time those people are out in the open society, somewhere in Sweden, it is an evaluation of the work of the Government and the Government. Of course, it is not empty political rhetoric in this House that will make a difference; it does action. As long as it doesn't happen, it's lazy. It's slow, in slow motion. Anyone who looks at the debate can google to hear what the Government said to Swedish Radios Dagens echo in November 2019. We stand here today, a long time later, without any proposal on the table. Other Members here have said: put the proposals on the table and we will vote on them as a matter of urgency! But we cannot vote for something that is not put on the table. I certainly do not hope that this is the case as in many other matters, namely that the two government parties do not agree. It can be that simple. It may well be that it is the Green Party that is blocking this issue too. We do not know that because the answer from the Government is a question prepared. If this is a priority for the government, it would be desirable to work on diplomatic guarantees that would lead to the expulsion of these people. It is, of course, a gross provocation against all well-being residents of Sweden to see that people whom the government has considered to be a serious security risk are openly exposed in society. The government has decided that these people are such a threat to Sweden that they will be expelled. Mr President, I would like to One can only call it a gross failure of one of the government's most important issues, namely to protect the Swedish population. The government's most important task must be to protect the Swedish population. Here the government has failed. Every day that one of these people is present in society is an evaluation of the government's work. I, too, would therefore like answers on how the government has worked with diplomatic guarantees.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-121	Mr President, I would like to My colleague Lars Beckman mentioned the memo on foreign affairs with security aspects whose consultation time expired on 1 July. In its referral to this memorandum, SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions stated that the consequences of the proposals in the memorandum may be such that these individuals who pose a threat to national security but cannot be expelled are entitled to financial and other assistance under the Social Services Act under the same conditions as other residents of the municipalities. The same applies to access to full, subsidised health care which these individuals may enjoy under certain circumstances. SKR believes that legislative changes are necessary to ensure that this is not the case. It is deeply offensive that individuals who pose a serious threat to national security should be able to enjoy the same benefits as citizens or other persons legally entitled to reside in the country. I would therefore like the Minister to answer the following questions: have the views of SKR been taken into account in the legislation prepared by the government? Does the Minister share SKR's view that it is offensive that individuals who are socially dangerous enjoy benefits?
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-124	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say something about the priority of the issues. We have a couple of cross-block agreements in which we have agreed with many parties to implement changes in terrorist legislation and to give the police and the security police new tools. In fact, the authorities have never had as much competence, powers and resources or been as trained, equipped and prepared for terrorist attacks as they are in Sweden today. It is enough to ask the police whether they believe that their ability to deal with terrorist threats to Sweden has improved over the past five years or not. That is not a question at the margin, but they answer the question unequivocally. The Security Service has gained about 50 percent more resources during this time to deal with these threats. Furthermore, we have tightened the legislation in the area of terrorism in a great many ways. This means that Sweden has never had such strong terrorist legislation as it is today. This includes the financing of terrorist activities – an important issue that was raised here earlier. We are therefore doing a lot in this area. Working with legislation is not easy. This is not a piece of cake legislation, but it is quite complicated to redo it. There will be links between different laws. Therefore, it takes a little longer than I would have liked to have a product on the table, but it must be done properly. What if we are sloppy in the legislation so that it does not have the desired effect on terrorist crime or the threats to Sweden's security that we want to tackle? This has to be done right. Let me answer the question. The government cannot make bold judgments leading to expulsions. It is courts that assess whether or not something can be enforced. This is incredibly important. We are bound by what the courts think. If the conditions change, there may be new decisions, which would be nice. The government is working to enable this to be carried out. It is said here that every day that passes when this is not carried out is a failure for the government. What a responsibility we share with previous governments! In fact, unlike all modern governments in Swedish history, this government is de facto working to remove enforcement barriers. It has not even been said by previous governments that they did. To be honest, I think we should have some perspective on this in the debate. It is not the case that people in Sweden who are covered by this legislation have the same benefits as everyone else when they are subject to an expulsion order from the government but this cannot be enforced. They certainly haven't. Most benefits are not available to them. They are also not allowed to work, but must register. Now there is a suggestion on the table that you can also be prohibited from staying in a specific area of stay. This is what is proposed in the investigation, which is the answer to Mr Marttinen's question as to how the restrictions that authorities may impose may look like in the future. We take these issues seriously. We work with them in the long term. We have very significantly advanced the positions of our capabilities in this area, but we are also bound by international conventions. It is probably the largest opposition party in the Swedish parliament actually aware of.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-133	Mr President, I would like to In response to the Minister's speech, it is worth pointing out that the Swedish Democrats have not entered into any of the terrorist agreements. It has been felt that we have different values. The result of these different values is that today we are not in a position to deprive Islamic extremists of their citizenship. It is about people who have travelled to Syria and Iraq where they have murdered, raped and desecrated people here and there. Other countries have moved on with such legislation. Denmark shares the values of the Swedish Democrats in that it has expelled people born in Denmark and deprived them of their citizenship. But this is impossible in Sweden because the government thinks that they have such good values. There are many examples and proposals to which we have reason to criticise. Another example is when the government proposed to criminalise terrorist travel. Then it was not criminalized if someone went to a country where they had citizenship. This meant that all Iraqis or Syrians with citizenship could make terrorist trips to these countries without having a criminal responsibility. We have therefore criticised many things. This is exactly what was later resolved following criticism from the European Union. However, if the Swedish Democrats had been given the power to decide, this could have been remedied in good time, which would have led to more people being convicted of crime. I find it unsatisfactory that Sweden has a system where bold assessments cannot be made. I think that the government should have realised earlier that something should be done about this and also taken action. The Supreme Court of Migration should not have an absolute right to refer, on very vague grounds, to enforcement barriers and thereby expose our country to great risks when we cannot expel individuals or, for that matter, keep them in custody, which the government does not want to do more than just for enforcement reasons. How many times has the government reconsidered the decisions of the Migration Court of Appeal regarding the grounds for non-execution? That's a question I didn't get an answer to.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-137	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let us note that respect for Swedish law is severely limited in the case of the people concerned. A sentenced imam has moved to Gävle from Västerås. He's been charged with failing to comply with Sapo's demands. In conclusion, I would like to ask Minister Damberg: Can the Council of State here in the speaker's chair today look into the camera and say to the Swedish people, ‘We in the government have done everything in our power – of course with regard to human rights and the legislation that exists – to narrow down the possibilities for the qualified security threats that it is about moving out in the open society'? Have you turned over all the stones in the Government Office? Has everyone been turned around? Peasy plains? And what's taking so long? I note that the Government did not contradict my speculation that it is the Green Party that is slowing down on this issue too. We know that there are two government parties. We know that one government party moves in some circles and has had leading representatives moving in a particular environment. I do not rule out that this delay is due to the fact that the government parties do not agree. Let me be clear: The government's work will be evaluated after every Gävlebo and every Swedish citizen has been able to follow whether these people move out in the open society or not. We can count days, and we'll find out when these people are expelled or locked up or for other reasons are not a security threat. That is the actual evaluation – not the rhetoric of the State Council in this House. I would like to know: has the government turned all the stones to protect the Swedish people from terrorism and security threats?
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-141	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Government has greatly increased the protection of Sweden against terrorism. We have done so in broad agreements with several of the parliamentary parties represented in this House. We have tightened up the legislation, tightened the penalties and given the police and the Security Service new tools. We have also taken the initiative to review the legislation that we are discussing today. Both the Social Democrats and the Green Party have given instructions for an investigation that is about reviewing and tightening up legislation in this area. I've also explained to you what tightening up the investigation is proposing. I have also explained that the reason why it has taken some time is that it is complex legislation which, moreover, should be synchronised with the criminal law we update at the same time. One legislation is based on the other, and they have to go together. That's the explanation. We have no interest in waiting to introduce new legislation, but it must work and be effective towards the individuals we want to tighten up the requirements for. So this is an issue that we will continue to pursue with vigour. It's not a question we take lightly. I think it is fundamentally good that the parliamentary parties agree that more needs to be done in this area. I can conclude by saying that it is probably the case that Marttinen and I have different values, that we do not have exactly the same view of how a society is built, how to keep a society together and how to fight terrorism. Every time I discuss terrorism, I am very careful to address all the threats that come to Sweden. The Security Service highlights both the Islamic threat and the extreme right-wing threat and is clear that the extreme right-wing threat has increased in recent years and that there is a high risk of terrorist attacks linked to those groups. I think it is important that we, as a country, take all kinds of terrorist threats very seriously. This government will continue to do so.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-145	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what I base my opinion on when I claim that the police procurement of protective masks was interrupted because it needed to be revised. Furthermore, she has asked me whether I and the government believe that the manufacture of protective masks should instead take place on my own initiative, how I intend to ensure that the process does not drag out and that our preparedness for breathing masks does not fail, and whether I have planned some form of preparedness acquisition of protective masks for the next ten years. The Government's historical investment in the Police Authority creates better conditions for employees to carry out their work efficiently and with a good working environment. In its internal allocation of resources, the Authority has the responsibility to ensure the provision of equipment that meets current requirements for protection. There are rules within the EU which, among other things, stipulate that protection products should be CE-labelled. In order to comply with the CE marking requirements and to ensure that employees' protective equipment is developed in accordance with the latest findings in material development, the Police Authority initiated a procurement for the procurement of protective masks in 2019. It is the Police Authority itself that can best assess the need and quality of the protective equipment to be used within the Agency. According to the Police Authority, a revision of the procurement was required due to shortcomings in the formal process. I have ensured that the work for the acquisition of protective masks is now continuing and will of course follow that work. Whether or not to manufacture protective masks is up to the authorities to assess. The police authority generally has a good ability and functioning system for the acquisition of protective equipment that meets the needs of the authority. Similarly, other authorities and operators may carry out procurements for protective equipment if they assess the need for such equipment. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, stores filters for Protective Mask 90 after agreement with the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV). These new filters are called after-market filters. They can be ordered for the remuneration of public service providers who are unable to order filters through their own contracts or procured suppliers. Against this background, there is currently no need for initiatives to be taken with regard to the preparedness of protective masks. I am, of course, following the question.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-152	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It was about a year ago that policemen, ambulance personnel and emergency services across the country would receive 55 000 new breathing masks. It was a work that was begun earlier. One company received an award decision on 15 January 2020; the Police Authority had decided on that date to award them a contract for this. The police had received offers from four bidders. One of them fell away because it had no attachments. The second fell away because it did not meet all the qualification requirements. A third fell away because all the requirements for the product were not met. So there was the fourth one left, who got the deal. A few weeks later, a decision was made to suspend the entire contract. That document referred to a lack of competition. Thus, the whole procurement process went into the trash basket, and the whole process had to be re-established from the beginning. Maybe it was right-- I don't know. However, I know that these breathing masks would have been quite helpful now during the terrible pandemic. But although the Swedish Public Health Agency in February did not consider that the risk of general infection in Sweden was so great, there are other things that I find a little strange in this. Firstly, how was it that the Office discovered the alleged deficiencies only three weeks after the award decision was taken? Secondly, instead of referring to the lack of competition referred to by the police, the Minister says that certain steps in the procurement process needed to be revised. Then I'll start thinking. What really happened? Mr President, I would like to The Minister thus says in his reply that the Police Authority generally has a good ability and functioning system for the procurement of protective equipment. What, then, happened in this case when deficiencies were discovered only three weeks after an award decision was taken? How good is the ability, and how do the systems work? What revisions are so important that an award is cancelled? I wonder if the Government would be kind enough to explain those points. If it is due to a lack of competition, should the procurement have been interrupted before the award was made? You already knew how many people were in the game. Does the Minister have any idea whether it is common in the Swedish Government to cancel procurements after having decided that someone should be awarded the contract? In the authorities the minister is responsible for, is it common to cancel procurements three weeks or more after award decisions? The defense's old Protection Mask 90 is described by both the defense and MSB as one of the world's best protection masks, but those masks were still not allowed to be used. In 2018, the Swedish Work Environment Authority had banned the use of municipalities on the grounds that protection mask 90 had no CE marking. Several emergency services asked for an exception but were refused. But now there was a procurement of masks that were CE marked. When the police changed their mind about the award decision, there was a bunch of rescue services who didn't get that information. So they thought they were moving on. Would it not be appropriate to provide that information to all parties involved in the procurement? What really happened?
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-161	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for the interpellation! It is getting closer to government issues rather than government issues, I would say. After all, it is not uncommon for there to be problems with procurement, either in private companies or in public authorities. In this case, it is exactly as the interpellier says: there were doubts as to whether the procurement was conducted in accordance with the requirements of competition law, and this was withdrawn. But a report was also made to the police department for special investigations to investigate it, so there is a review of whether there has been a right to and how to do in the future to learn from it. I cannot say that it seems to have gone quite well because this situation has been put in place and it is even being looked at internally how it has been done. However, I am completely confident that the agency has both the resources and the money and the knowledge required to procure protective equipment for its employees. Great efforts have been made on employee protection in recent years, and these procurements have in fact led to improvements in both equipment and other services for police staff. That's good. From what I understand, they are now working on a new demand and preparing this internally in the Police Authority. But it's more of a matter for the police department, I mean. I have been informed that FMV has recently initiated a procurement in competition for the procurement of protective masks for delivery to authorities such as the Swedish Armed Forces, municipalities and regions and rescue services. The replacement will comply with all EU directives and will be CE marked. The police authority has not yet decided whether to participate in this procurement or whether to initiate a new, own procurement. That is the information I have today.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-166	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have asked several questions in my interpellation. I ask how the Government intends to ensure that the process does not drag on and that our preparedness for breathing masks does not fail. Here I understand that the Minister's answer is that he has ensured that the work for the acquisition of protective masks is now continuing and that he will follow that work. But I wonder how the Minister intends to ensure that it does not fail again. If it is something we have learned from this pandemic, it is well the importance of being at the forefront, the importance of being prepared and the importance of taking on leadership on difficult issues. Are we prepared for approved breathing masks for our skilled police, rescue and ambulance personnel? Are we at the forefront of our preparedness for breathing masks? Furthermore, I ask if the Government has planned some form of preparedness acquisition of protective masks for the next ten years. I think it's important to be at the forefront, to be prepared. Here I have a clear answer – thank you, Minister, for that! – that the Minister sees no need to take further initiatives with regard to the preparedness of protective masks. But then I wonder what secret layer of CE-marked masks the minister has that I do not see. Following an EU decision, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has granted an exemption to use Protective Mask 90 and has enabled, among other things, emergency services and health professionals to use the protective mask during the pandemic. Yet it has been stopped, for example by the Prison Service last autumn. Participants in the Prison Service's basic education have suffered from lack of oxygen when using Protective Mask 90 for exercises. After the head protection officer has put a stop to protection, the mask must not be used. The basic training had been down for quite some time, but it was decided that it could continue if the participants had protective equipment on. However, it was not long before reports were received that only a small effort was needed to produce symptoms of oxygen deficiency. It was about headaches, dizziness and nausea. According to sources, FMV has created a collaboration group for CBRN with the authorities involved in the suspension of the contract, where approximately one month after the award of the contract has been suspended, a discussion is being held about the replacement of Protective Mask 90 instead but now as a CE mark. Was the previous procurement not required? Or was it that the requirements were right but the desire to have a protective mask 90 for unknown reasons overcame the requirements? This is despite the fact that this protection mask does not seem to work for, for example, the Prison Service. Does the Government know anything about this? I have taken note of an email exchange where it appears that FMV still believes that Protective Mask 90 is one of the world's best protection masks and that its performance and life cycle costs are so beneficial that the Swedish Armed Forces intend to restore it. Is it the replacement that the Minister refers to when he says that he does not see the need to take initiatives in relation to the preparedness of protective masks?
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-177	Mr President, I would like to I find it hard to understand what the interpellier means by the interpellation. The police today have well-stocked layers of the protective mask you have. It works today, in the pandemic that is currently taking place. They are in the middle of a process of acquiring new protective masks for a growing organization in the future. How to make that decision and exactly what demands you make on that protection mask, I mean, should be a matter for the authority. I have full confidence that the Police Authority is best placed to demand the acquisition of the new protective mask. If you choose to enter FMV's procurement or if you choose to do your own procurement, it is up to the authority to decide. I have full confidence that the Authority can make those balances, so I have nothing further to say. They have resources, they are going to procure new protection masks and they have a responsibility to ensure that preparedness is maintained over time. It is the responsibility of the authority to do so, and I am absolutely sure that they will. I note that the procurement that was initiated did not go as planned. There has been an investigation of this, and we will see what that investigation will achieve.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-181	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing for me is that Sweden is prepared for breathing masks so that we can manage in the event of another crisis or other situation where we need breathing masks. I therefore wonder whether the Minister intends to ensure that this process is not delayed. There is nothing to say that it will be ten years before the next crisis. The present can continue for a long time, and there may be a new one quite soon. We should be prepared for a fairly long period to come. According to MSB, the government itself may provide for exemption for Protective Mask 90. The Swedish Work Environment Authority made a decision to make exceptions during the pandemic, but if I have understood correctly, the government itself can decide to grant an exemption on this issue.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-185	Mr President, I would like to I can see that the police say that they have good supplies of, as it is called, the world's best protection mask right now. There is no problem with this during the pandemic; stocks are good. It is in the middle of work on a future procurement, which unfortunately had to be redesigned but which is being investigated. I am absolutely sure that the police are best placed to demand what protective mask they need in the future and that they are also taking the height of any future pandemics or other events that require protective masks – the police must be able to protect their staff. I therefore have nothing more to add on this matter than what I have already said.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-187	Mr President, I would like to Mr Fransson has asked me whether I think it is reasonable that the limits of what must and must not be said in the political debate should be outsourced to private companies and thus decoupled from our national freedom of expression legislation, or whether I will take any action. Freedom of expression has a long tradition and a strong position in Sweden and is one of the cornerstones of democracy. The digital development of the last decade has meant that the major digital platforms with user-generated content have become important intermediaries of free speech. While this is a fundamentally positive development that has given many more opportunities to speak, it has also brought challenges, including the spread of illegal material on the internet. The Internet should not be a free zone for crime. Sweden has therefore worked actively for a long time towards balanced regulation for brokerage service providers within the EU. We need clear regulation at the bottom, which curbs, among other things, certain forms of terror propaganda, illegal threats, incitement to ethnic groups and sexual abuse material, but companies must also take their own responsibility because everything will never be possible to regulate in law. It is the government's position that brokers need to take greater responsibility to remove and keep away obvious illegal content. The European Commission has recently presented a proposal for a regulation on a single market for digital services, and it is welcome that the European Commission has listened to the Swedish line. Among other things, the proposal introduces harmonised mechanisms for dealing with manifestly illegal content. On the other hand, the proposal does not provide a basis for determining what is to be considered as such content. This is determined in accordance with the proposal in national law or, in some cases, in EU law. However, freedom of expression applies to the individual vis-à-vis the general public, and the right to express an opinion does not therefore impose an obligation on individual operators to disseminate it. The major internet platforms are not public but private operators. The use of the services of the platforms is governed by the terms of use accepted by the individual in order to use the service. As proposed by the European Commission, this will continue to be an issue between platforms and their users. In other words, it is a civil, contractual issue between the individual and the platform. Given the central position of companies for the opportunity to express their views online, it is of course important that both the terms of use and the work on compliance are characterised by clarity and transparency.
i-TeYS4hUsov8egEgBkBwrnq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Digitalization Anders Ygeman, for your answer! Today, then, we are debating global tech giants, in particular Google, Facebook and Twitter, and their limitations on online opinion formation and how they can manipulate democratic elections through their monopoly-like position. Unfortunately, the government continues on the line previously taken, and with this interpellation response it becomes even clearer where the government stands. It is difficult to interpret it in any other way than that the government is quite comfortable with private companies restricting and censoring conservative votes in favour of primarily progressive votes on the left. Never before has a social democrat so committed defended the free enterprise as in these days. Especially in the USA, but also here at home in Sweden, Facebook, Google and Twitter have taken a political stand. This can be led in evidence through a number of tracks, but it is clear that almost all high-profile cases of opinion manipulation or material removal are leaning in a specific direction in the political spectrum. Mr President, I would like to This is not the first time me and Anders Ygeman have touched on the question of the growing power of net giants. On the other hand, it is the first time that I have been given the opportunity to speak after Ygeman, and I am thus able to respond to his arguments – not infrequently rather bleak onelins that SD wants to defend everything from child pornography to terrorism. It does not matter how clear you are that it is content that is legal in society otherwise that the Swedish Democrats defend and that it is freedom of expression that you want to protect. Since I wrote this interpellation, there has also been a part of the issue, namely that Brussels has delivered a proposal for a regulation on a single market for digital services or the Digital Service Act, as it is called. This is intended to regulate the activities of online giants on the European market in different ways, and it is clear that the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have quite different approaches to this work. While the Swedish Democrats want to defend the citizens' right to express themselves freely, the government's entry seems to be that the platforms should be cleared more, not only of illegal content but also of things that are not illegal. In this context, I would like to reiterate a paragraph from the digitization minister's interpellation response on the removal of content: Suck a little on that wording – it's a sour caramel when it comes to free opinion formation. Mr President, I would like to When the Digital Service Act was up for discussion in the Committee on Economic Affairs last week, I and the Swedish Democrats had a number of concrete points that we believe should be Sweden's line in the negotiations in the EU. Unfortunately, I can see that Anders Ygeman and the Government are opposed to these, at least at present. However, I would like to take this opportunity to tell you a little more about our proposals in this House, but as time is running out, I am waiting for my next speech.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-199	Mr President, I would like to There seems to be some confusion on this issue. Therefore, I would try to clarify it to Josef Fransson with a few examples, and so let Josef Fransson comment on them. I am the first to want to limit the power of internet platforms, and DSA is a good tool for this. However, it is not possible to regulate everything in law. If you, as the Swedish Democrats, want to demand that only what is regulated by law can be removed, there will be a great deal of material that is being removed from the internet platforms today that will not then be removed. The Swedish Democrats are happy to highlight their favorite politician Donald Trump and that, after urging violence, he was shut down from Twitter. There may be differences of opinion on this. But Twitter has also removed 2 million other accounts on that basis. It is left-wing extremists who are calling for violence, and it is Isis and Al-Qaeda. If we were to do what the Swedish Democrats want, then we would open the door to a tidal wave of 2 million accounts, which could spread terror and violence propaganda. Is that really what the Swedish Democrats want? I don't think so. But Josef Fransson is welcome to clarify. We have questions about grooming online, that is, when paedophiles act online to thus trick children into sending pictures and doing other things. Today, Internet companies control this by clearly blocking what can be done and not done on their accounts. It goes without saying that a company like Tiktok has much tougher rules for such things – what can be said and how users can be courted online – than, for example, Tinder. Is it really reasonable that we in law should ban Tiktok from making it more difficult to germinate online? Then there is the third case, when what is perceived as hate and threats on a platform is not in the sense of the law. I will read one such example to Josef Fransson; he is surely well acquainted with it. I would like to ask him why he wants to legislate to protect this type of statement. Jan Jönsson, liberal politician in Stockholm, got the following written to him on the internet:reply to Rinkeby and have serious conversations with people you will get a gun up in your asshole your little gay. This is not hate or illegal threats in the sense of the law, but it is removed by internet companies. Josef Fransson wants to legislate so that internet companies cannot remove it – why?
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-204	Mr President, I would like to It will be a boring discussion m ed Digitization Minister Ygeman, who I think plays incomprehensible for what we are looking for. I have made it very clear that what is illegal in the physical world should be illegal also on the internet. So such things as child pornography, terrorist calls, incitement and incitement to ethnic groups automatically go away. But then there is a problem with the fact that there is sometimes a little bit of a tip in the debate. The example that Anders Ygeman now read out was, of course, quite crude. I have no comment as to whether it would even be illegal and could be removed. Perhaps it is our national legislation that needs updating. But what about our Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, for example, comparing his political opponents with pigs and, in the article he wrote, similar to animals that must be tamed? When government representatives dehumanize me and my party colleagues in this way, I can actually get both angry and sad, but I'm not so sure that I want Facebook and Twitter to go in and strangle or slow down Peter Hultqvist's opportunity for debate, however lame it may be. If this is to happen, it should be in a Swedish court. Here are the dividing lines between the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats on this issue. I could ask Ygeman: What does the Minister for Digitalization think Twitter and Facebook should do when Peter Hultqvist expresses this hatred towards the Swedish Democrats? I also said that I would come back a little bit to our proposals for a digital service act. Let's see what I can do here. However, we simply believe that the principles of freedom of expression must form the basis for regulation of content on digital meeting services. The principle must also be that everyone has the right to an account on these dominant platforms. There must be a duty of counterparting here. As a basic principle – I am talking about a principle here – only illegal content should be deleted, especially in terms of political opinion-forming. In my opinion, it should apply when it is a real person. So it should not apply to anonymous accounts; it should be real people who are behind them. Then they should be able to be tried in court rather than subject to action by Facebook and Twitter. I also believe that it should not be possible to cancel certain opinions. This is where the Minister for Digitalization floats a little bit. One example is conservative opinion formation. That is exactly what is happening today. Look at the election campaign in the United States! Much can be said of the election movement and of the shortcomings of both presidential candidates, but when Twitter turns off a large, venerable newspaper because it presents a great scandal that risks damaging the presidential candidate of the democrats, I think it has gone beyond the limits of decency. Then, when individuals try to spread the news on their social media, where opinion formation is taking place today, they are slowed down and, as it is said, become shadowbanned. This means that they may divide the article into empty spaces, because with their algorithms the platforms have the ability to make sure that no one sees it. The platforms interfere and manipulate elections, not only in the USA but also here in Sweden. It shuts down and interferes in which policies should be considered good and exemplary.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-212	Mr President, I would like to Josef Fransson talks about conservative opinion formation. I put a straight question to Josef Fransson about the threat that had been posed to Jan Jönsson online: I ask: Why does Josef Fransson want to legislate against the removal of such material from the net? Josef Fransson answers that it is conservative opinion formation! It is probably the kind of conservative opinion that separates the Swedish Democrats from all other parties in the Swedish parliament.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-214	Mr President, I would like to Then we're there again. I think the Minister for Digitalization is deliberately making a fool of himself. He does not want to understand, because he does not want the online giants to have this type of regulation, and he does not want one to be able to defend the free formation of opinion online. At least at present, this side of the left, to which Anders Ygeman and the government belong, benefits. I believe freedom of expression has a price. It's always had a price. I don't know if the quote that Ygeman just read is supposed to be illegal. Maybe it should be. I'd love to look at it. But the important thing is about the digital platforms that have such a dominant position that they can control and set and influence democratic elections, which candidate should win. We can't have it like that. We cannot allow net giants on the other side of the Atlantic, on other continents, to set the limits of what can and must not be said in a Swedish electoral movement. It must be regulated by national law. Like I said, freedom of speech has a price. It's always had a price. This means that sometimes you have to listen to people you don't agree with. Sometimes you have to hear Peter Hultqvist look like Swedish democrats to pigs. It happens. It's really hard sometimes, and you get sad and angry, but it's a foundation of our democracy. Do you not understand this perhaps you do not understand democracy either? Freedom of opinion is at the heart of our democratic governance. I would therefore like to thank you for this debate.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-218	Mr President, I would like to I gave three examples to Josef Fransson of what would happen if SD policy was implemented. The first was that 2 million terrorist accounts – IS accounts and Al-Qaida accounts – with violence and terror propaganda would be available. Fransson Josef's only answer is that freedom of speech has a price. I mentioned the serious threats that have been posed to a politician in Stockholm. Josef Fransson seems to be able to live with such threats. He calls it conservative opinion formation. I don't see it that way. I pointed out the grooming that happens every day on different online platforms, where paedophiles try to attract children to sexual activities and drag them into sexual abuse. What was Josef Fransson's answer? Yes, freedom of speech has a price. Then let me tell Mr Fransson: Freedom of expression regulates the relationship between citizens and states. It does not regulate the relationship between internet platforms and their users. It is perfectly reasonable that Tiktok imposes requirements on its users to protect children. It is quite reasonable for other platforms to make demands to prevent political activists from hearing threats of having guns shoved in one body or another. Josef Fransson asks: If a Social Democratic politician were to bring such threats, what does Anders Ygeman think about it? I'm non-consequential. Should a Social Democratic politician engage in grooming or threaten with violence, I think that the Social Democratic politician should also be turned off. Then there must be a transparent possibility to appeal and have their case examined. But opening up to a tidal wave of hate and threats online, I'm not prepared to do.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-224	Mr President, I would like to Joar Forssell has asked me what consequences for the Swedish part the government sees of the development in Norway, how the possibility of importing electricity in strained situations is affected and how the government estimates that the price of electricity will be affected. Furthermore, Joar Forssell has asked me whether the changes in import conditions are giving rise to any action by the government or the authorities. The Nordic electricity market is complex. It is also likely that there will be a development of our own and other neighbouring countries' electricity systems that will affect electricity prices in different directions. For market reasons, the government should not comment on future electricity prices. In general, however, when different price ranges are more closely linked, price differences are evened out. In other words, the price increases slightly in low-cost areas and decreases slightly in high-priced areas. I am confident that our energy authorities, which have the task of monitoring market developments, will carry out the necessary analyses and take into account possible scenarios. My task and that of the government is to work towards the political parliamentary goals that exist in this area, both in the short and long term. D the overall objective of energy policy, based on the same three pillars as energy cooperation in the European Union, aims to reconcile security of supply, competitiveness and ecological sustainability, including the target of 100 % renewable electricity generation to 204 0, which is a target and not a deadline prohibiting nuclear power; I believe that Sweden has a very good starting position and good conditions for meeting the targets in the future as well. By differentiating our energy mix, strengthening the electricity grids where it is needed and making use of the resources we have, Sweden will continue to be a net exporter of fossil-free electricity, and at times also at strained locations.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-229	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My question concerns Sweden's electricity needs. Today we have a major shortage of electricity. We often have that discussion, me and Ygeman, so it is probably known for a lot of those who follow the parliamentary debate in general. But it is also the case that for many years we from the Swedish side have simply been able to rely on and lean on the Norwegian production of fossil-free hydropower. That's a good thing. We think it is good that Sweden will continue to import large amounts of fossil-free electricity that comes from Norwegian hydropower. Norway has twice as much installed power as Sweden when it comes to hydropower. Technically and economically, we are both part of the Nordic electricity market. It is sometimes said in the debate, Mr President, that Sweden imports or exports electricity or that Norway imports or exports electricity and so on. Actually, it's the same electricity market. But within that market, Mr President, each country has responsibility for its electricity supply. Access to electricity and energy is a matter of freedom, and Sweden has a responsibility to ensure that we always have electricity and energy where it is needed and in a way that does not harm the climate. In this I would like to call Norway the pusher of the Nordic countries, Mr President, without any comparisons. Norway has by offering us a first dose of cheap clean electricity made us build us into a dependency on Norway as backup. Norway becomes like a battery, which we can take a bit of when there is no wind in Sweden or when it is a bit too cold to be able to meet our needs. Mr President, I would like to So Norway has made us dependent on Norwegian clean electricity from the beginning. Now they move on and intend to sell their electricity to more people. It can be said that Norwegian electricity has in principle been free of charge, but since they expanded their electricity supply to the Netherlands we have seen how the Norwegian prices have risen slightly. They are still at low levels, but they have risen somewhat. Mr President, I would like to As early as next winter, we may be faced with a situation where the new electricity markets for Norway, Germany and the UK, are competing with Sweden in such a way that prices will be pushed up further. It is clear that you sit in a very regrettable position when you, like Sweden, have bought the cheap electricity from Nordens pusher Norway and Norway in the next stage can raise their prices. Mr President, I would like to We believe that Sweden also needs more regulated energy supply, in the form of nuclear energy. We were able to read in Dagens Nyheter today about how the government sits on the issue of the disposal and does not come to the fore to make decisions to ensure that the nuclear power we have in Sweden can continue and to ensure that we can have regulated energy even when Norway's electricity prices are at risk of rising further. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Government is still: How does the Government view the question of Norway's future electricity supply to Sweden?
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-238	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the question! First of all, I must say that I strongly oppose the image of Norway as a drug dealer and Sweden as an addict. I don't think it's any good analogy in any way. Just as Joar Forssell said before this somewhat strange illustration, we have a cohesive electricity market in the Nordic region, and that is something that benefits both Norway and Sweden. We support the Oslo region in particular when they have less effect there. And Norway supports the Swedish electricity system when we need power. This is something that benefits both Sweden and Norway. The alternative would have been that both countries had had to build up an effect to last the coldest hour, the coldest winter. Then that price would be crucial for all the other hours of the year. That would mean a five or six-fold increase in the price of electricity in our respective countries – or something like that, depending on what you think the coldest hour costs. This is a completely different picture from that of a drug dealer and an addict, which Joar Forssell is trying to paint. I know that this is a model for the rest of Europe. We will therefore see more countries that are linked up in conditions similar to those of the Nordic countries. What's unique – I forgot to say – with the Nordics is that we help each other, that we don't lock in the electricity and that we don't play Svarte Petter with each other. That is why we can have a better supply of electricity and a cheaper electricity than we would otherwise have had. Although we can look at Norway's hydro power assets with some envy, we also have large hydro power assets in Sweden. When we get more of wind power into the Swedish system, it will affect how the Swedish hydropower is run. It will run very little at the times when we have good access to electricity, and it will run much more when we have less access to electricity. The hydropower in Norway and Sweden is like a huge battery that can help to extract fossil electricity generation in the rest of Europe. I believe that Sweden has a fossil electricity production that is one fifth of what we had ten years ago. And we are helping more than ever before to suppress fossil electricity generation in the rest of Europe. That is, of course, pleasing. It is also gratifying – I can tell Joar Forssell – that the reactors we have make an important contribution to the Swedish electricity supply today. Despite a rather high tone in the debate, nuclear power delivered almost as much in 2019 as in 2010, or even more. That is, of course, pleasing.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-246	Mr President and the Government. It's a known combat technique to be calm and calm. It has been fully mastered by Ygeman. But the truth is, Mr President, that there is no time to be calm when Sweden is facing an electric crisis. The truth is that it is not the time to be calm when the government says this again and again. From the Liberals' side, we point out that Sweden during the coldest hour or during the most intense hours or when for some other reason there is a crisis in the system is dependent on imports of electricity from other countries. In addition, electricity is often produced partly from fossil fuels. Mr President, I would like to What the government has said before is: No, no, you don't have to worry about coal- and oil-based energy from Poland, for example, because almost all energy comes from the hydroelectric power in Norway. But, Mr President, what is happening now is that Norway is expanding its capacity to supply electricity to other countries. As prices rise, there is a risk that Sweden will consume more fossil energy. The problem, Mr President, is that a country like Sweden should not use fossil energy. We must take responsibility throughout the world for climate change. It is the greatest threat to human freedom. We must also take responsibility for and ensure that people in Sweden always have access to electricity and energy that is clean. It is also a question of freedom. Mr President, I would like to Then the Government says it's cool, because we have hydro power also in Sweden. But the thing is that with the investments that we know LKAB is planning in northern Sweden, for example, our hydropower will not even be enough for northern Sweden's needs. It is as if the government has crawled under a stone a number of mandates ago and never crawled forward again, because reality has changed. Norway's expansion, which means that prices are at risk of rising together with large investments in electrification, means that the need is increasing very strongly, and we will need more regulated energy that also comes from Sweden. The problem with this government is that you put out a lot of fog curtains, as Ygeman has done in the speaker's chair today. Of course I agree that it is good that we have a common market with other countries, but we must do what we can to contribute fossil-free energy so that we do not end up in a situation where we are forced to use dirty energy. Mr President, I would like to I would still like an answer from the Government regarding the situation we have with Norway and our built-in dependence on Norwegian hydropower. Will there be a risk that we cannot trust it in the future to get the government to work faster on the question of the repository? It is clear that if the government were to come forward and resolve the question of the custody, which is technically and legally resolved but lacks a government decision, the situation with Norway would be a little less acute. Therefore, I simply wonder whether the government will be working on this issue more quickly, partly from what we have been able to read in DN last night and today, and partly from the point of view of the situation with Norwegian hydropower.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-256	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of order, let me just say that this question falls under the jurisdiction of Minister Per Bolund. I am convinced that the Ministry of the Environment is working on this issue at a high pace, and I hope it will find a solution. However, it is not affected by any future export differences with Norway, but is prepared according to the rules set out in the Swedish Constitution. Joar Forssell says that reality has changed. I must certainly give Joar Forssell the right answer here. Reality has changed, but perhaps not quite in the way that Joar Forssell claims. In 2010, when Joar Forssell's party was in government power, we imported 80 times as much electricity from Poland for what we are doing today. In 2010, when Joar Forssell's party was in government power, we were net importers of electricity. We depended on electricity imports to cope with the Swedish supply. Now we're net exporters. It is even the case that we have never contributed so much to suppressing fossil energy in other countries as we do now. Other things were when the Liberals were in government. Then we were addicted to fulbels from other countries. Now we are involved in pushing uglies away from other countries. During the same period, we have severely reduced Swedish electricity production, which is dependent on fossil energy sources. That's a fifth today against what it was in 2010 – a fifth! So there is every reason to rejoice. When Joar Forssell uses the fact that Sweden is a net importer of electricity every year as a sign of an electricity crisis, then one has to ask when Sweden did not have an electricity crisis. It is well that we have been dependent on this I do not know how many years, and I do believe that, regardless of the energy mix, we will still be dependent in a mutual system in the future. Why? Because if each city, each municipality, each region and each country is to dimension its electricity system for the hour or minute of the year with the highest electricity consumption, electricity will be more expensive than ever. Instead of doing so, we have chosen two things. Firstly, we have an energy market together with our neighbouring countries where we are helping and buying and selling electricity, which means that we have Europe's lowest electricity price for medium-sized and large companies and among the lowest for consumers. Secondly, we have insurance, a power reserve, which can pump in if necessary. Although we have had a rather cold winter, I think, the power reserve so far has not contributed to the effect in the Swedish system. It runs on a sparring flame at some point to contribute if necessary. On average, the Swedish power reserve runs one day every two years. Then you can say some horrible word that I think Joar Forssell did on TV– I don't remember what word it was – about this running on fossil energy. It does; it is oil-driven. I can agree with Joar Forssell that it is a problem that it goes on oil, although we have chosen to take larger emission sources and even if it only runs every two years. But that can be changed! Joar Forssell's party didn't do it when they were in power. We may be able to contribute together to ensure that the power reserve instead goes on biooil or biogas so that even the small, small rest of fossil fuels are stemmed out of the Swedish electricity system.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-265	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by noting that the Government keeps returning to the fact that it would have been such an exceptionally cold winter. That's not true. Nevertheless, we must state this: this is not an exceptionally cold winter. It may be colder than the winter before, what do I know, but it's not an exceptionally cold winter, and we don't have such a cold winter that our systems should be so at the breaking point as they have been anyway. Mr President, I would like to It's also another strange thing that moves in Ygeman's argumentation, and that's that he doesn't seem to be very multidimensional but actually quite flat. It is clear that although it is true that, over the year, we can export and do not have a shortage of electricity, it is in space that we have a shortage of electricity in parts of the country. It is also true that we have a common Nordic electricity market, but it is clear that it is a crisis when you do not have green electricity where it is needed and when it is needed throughout the country year round. Then it's a crisis. Mr President, I would like to I haven't been in any government. On the other hand, Ygeman has been in government many times, and it is clear that this crisis will be dealt with by the current government. We have repeatedly heard from the government that it is cool. We don't have to have all the supply of electricity from Sweden, because we can buy in cheap hydropower from Norway at any time. This is changing, because when the Norwegian electricity market is built up so that they can export to Germany and the UK, what the government has used as an argument will no longer apply in the same way. It is clear that a minister with Ygeman's responsibilities should be concerned. He doesn't seem to care, though.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-270	Mr President, I would like to I think Joar Forssell will have to go back to the record. I said we've had a rather cold winter. Joar Forssell says that the Government claims that we have an exceptionally cold winter. Quite cold– exceptionally cold. I will not accuse Joar Forssell of being one-dimensional, but there are probably more dimensions in the Swedish language than that. Quite cold is quite cold; exceptionally cold is something quite different. If it were exceptionally cold, we would have a hundred-year winter, and we are far from it. I still think that many with me think it is a rather cold winter, especially here in southern and central Sweden. Then it becomes a little revealing to Joar Forssell. I asked the question back: If we now have an electricity crisis in Sweden, which Joar Forssell has repeated several times in this debate, when did we not have an electricity crisis in Sweden? When we had the ten reactors that Joar Forssell holds so high, we were a net importer. Now we're a big net exporter. When, Joar Forssell, am I curious, didn't we have an electric crisis? Have we had 100 years of electric crisis? Have we had 50 years of electric crisis? Have we had 30 years of electric crisis? Ten years of electricity crisis we have certainly had, and 20 years – absolutely. However, if we have had an electricity crisis for 20 years, I wonder whether the electricity crisis is really the right name. There has been an ongoing electricity crisis in all of Sweden's history. Joar Forssell was guilty of the answer, and perhaps that is not surprising. The situation over the last ten years has greatly improved. Instead of being dependent on foreign Polish electricity as we had 80 times as much of 2010 as today, we are now a net exporter and are contributing to climate change in Sweden and around Europe.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-274	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Olsson has asked me the following questions: I would like to begin by saying that Sweden has a good starting point for increased electrification. We have net exported electricity with very low carbon dioxide emissions over the last ten years to our neighbours, and in 2020 we had an electricity surplus of about 25 terawatt hours. It is therefore as much as the total consumption of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania as a whole, and it is more than the need for electricity for the transport sector in most of the transport sector development scenarios up to 2045. An electric motor has an efficiency 3 – 4 times higher than a petrol or diesel engine. This means that overall energy use in domestic transport and labour would be reduced in the event of a shift from fossil fuels to electricity. The government has taken several initiatives with regard to electrification of the transport sector. The Electrification Commission is an example that will accelerate development, and we will also develop a national electrification strategy that will take a holistic approach to the conditions for the energy sector. In addition to electrification, biofuels will also play a major role in the transformation of the transport sector. A legislative spromemoria with proposals for successively increased reduction levels until 2030 in the reduction obligation for petrol and diesel is currently being consulted. Reduction levels are proposed to increase gradually to 28% for petrol and 66% for diesel by 2030. Renewable electricity generation is increasing and will continue to do so. For example, the government recently sent a proposal for a referral to extend the offshore transmission network to further contribute to achieving the target of 100% renewable electricity generation by reducing connection costs for offshore wind power. Sweden has significant net exports of electricity with very low carbon dioxide emissions. Electricity generation plants are covered by the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, and the price of allowances has increased so much in recent years that energy production from coal power is now falling rapidly. Speaking of Poland, mentioned by Lotta Olsson, we have exported electricity to Poland every week in the last year, and we have exported electricity to Poland in the last three winters at times when electricity consumption was highest in Sweden.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-279	Madam President, I would like Climate change to reduce greenhouse gas emissions requires that we act quickly and take all necessary measures. Here Sweden is a pioneer country with a largely fossil-free electricity production. We are at the forefront in many areas, such as energy efficiency of our homes and lighting. The major challenges now lie in changing the major heavy industries and the transport sector. It will mean a great increase in the need for electrical energy, not as before that the improvements made lead to a reduction in consumption but, on the contrary, an increase in energy consumption. Our transport sector, if we are to switch it completely from petrol and diesel to electricity, will require the equivalent of 60 terawatt hours of electricity on an annual basis. Today, our entire annual consumption is 140 terawatt hours. Add to that that our entire heavy industry is working frantically to reduce its fossil energy consumption with the great needs this requires. There was previously a forecast that in the near future we would need 200 terawatt hours, but now this will be required only for transport and our current consumption. Heavy industry is not even included. Progress is fast. In just a few years' time, the transport sector can convert a large part of its transport if only the political decisions are in place. It is not the industry and technological development that are now the narrow sector, but the political decisions that are needed and not in place. The decisions on infrastructure were not going to be taken here. But there are challenges with the big technology transition. The transport sector, like the industry, requires planable, stable electric energy. We can't have truck traffic that goes out of power and is forced to stop. It doesn't work that way. Madam President, I would like If we manage to switch the part of the transport sector that is currently on petrol and diesel, this would mean a reduction in CO2 emissions of 6.235 million cubic metres of oil. That would be 16.4 million tonnes of greenhouse gas. The use of petrol and diesel accounts for 78% of emissions from transport. If we were to change, it would mean huge profits. If we switch to using fossil-free Swedish energy, which exists today, it would mean a reduction of 12 million tonnes of carbon dioxide on an annual basis. On the contrary, if we were to import, as it stands today, to meet the great need, there would be a greater CO2 footprint than if petrol and diesel were left. All of this I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to produce, and these are, of course, hypothetical questions. But it cannot be that we are changing the whole transport sector and getting a fossil dependence on coal instead of petrol and diesel. It's so stupid that the clocks stop.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-286	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Minister of Energy Ygeman, I think unsearchably of the philosophical concept of solipsism, which somewhat simplistically denotes that the only thing that exists is its own experience as such. Energy Minister Ygeman's experience is that we have an electricity surplus – this at the same time as large industrial companies are forced to close production, while Sweden is importing lignite from abroad, while the oil power plant in Karlshamn is being started to save electricity supply. This is happening now before the conversion of the fleet of vehicles to electrification has begun to take off. Already today there are major problems with the electricity supply, not least in Skåne. So we are a long way from the carefree scenario that the Minister paints. The most tragic thing is that the shortage of electricity is the result of a conscious policy. The Social Democrats, who were once proud of Swedish industry, have allowed a small anti-growth party to dictate the conditions for energy policy. Clean, reliable and secure electricity generation has been shut down without taking into account the consequences for Swedish companies and other consumers. Ideology has drummed reason. The Minister mentions the investment in offshore wind power, which will not solve the shortage of electricity when it is as cold as cold and the windmills stand still. The question is also who will be responsible for the connection costs. The Minister will be happy to answer that. Madam President, I would like One thing is certain: Sweden will need significantly more fossil-free electricity generation and a much better expanded electricity grid. It was a big mistake to close Ringhals 1, a mistake whose consequences affect the Swedish people. They affect private consumers, who are not allowed to vacuum, do not shower and do not make coffee when it is cold. They also affect companies, which must not produce or expand because electricity suppliers cannot promise secure supplies. This is something that will cost Swedish jobs, which, of course, is not insignificant when Sweden suffers from high unemployment – in fact, the sixth highest in the EU, despite the Prime Minister's promises of Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020. Nor will it benefit the environment if production is moved to other countries using fossil electricity. However, I am not looking to get the Minister to dress in sacks and ashes for old, already committed mistakes. Instead, I would like an answer from the Minister to the question of how to resolve the situation now. Then I want to know how to solve the situation in the future, when the need for electricity will be so infinitely greater.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-293	Madam President, I would like I will not take away Boriana Åberg's self-experienced philosophical reality, but in the second reality – the reality of Sweden – Sweden has an electricity surplus of 25 terawatt hours that we export to other countries. This is as much as the total consumption of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. If Boriana Åberg has a different view, that is to say that we do not have an electricity surplus, she is welcome to give a factual reference. This is what Statistics Sweden, Svenska Kraftnät and Energiföretagen claim. If she has any other opinion, she is therefore happy to state it for the sake of the record. As I mentioned – this is well the disadvantage of the interpeller using pre-written posts – our electricity surplus is so large that it would cover the entire transport needs today, i.e. if our entire transport sector switched to electricity. Of course, we should not make ourselves dependent on foreign imports into Swedish electricity production. That is why it is so gratifying that we have gone from the situation we had in 2010, when we were net importers of electricity and imported 80 times as much electricity from Poland as we do today, to a situation where we are net exporters and where we have one fifth of the emissions from fossil electricity production that we had before. I'm glad to hear that. If the interpellant Lotta Olsson thinks it is important to change fossil fuels, so that we should switch from petrol and diesel to electricity – and I think she thinks so – I have only one question: Why have the Moderates twice wanted to make it relatively more expensive to drive an electric car by reducing taxes on diesel and petrol? This would increase driving on petrol and diesel and reduce driving on electricity. This would make it relatively more expensive to ride an electric car and relatively cheaper to ride a fossil car. I'm not really getting that together. Boriana Åberg asked me about offshore wind power, and it is true that this is a proposal that the government is making. We have done so by agreeing with the Moderates, Christian Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Center Party in the Energy Agreement. As recently as last week, your energy policy spokesperson in this House claimed that you support the proposal, Boriana Åberg. If you have changed your mind, you are welcome to report it to the House, but until then I assume that you are behind what you yourself have signed. I shall also say something about the future, because it raised both speakers. We have developed an electrification strategy and set up an electrification commission. The reason for this is that we see a sharp increase in electricity demand in the future – above all in order to meet the needs of the industry, which is going to change. We are happy to do this work in cooperation with all the parties in the Riksdag. We had an energy agreement based on the moderate-led government's energy agreement, but it chose the Moderates and Christian Democrats then to leave. I'm sorry about that. I hope that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats will abandon it a little more party political squabble and instead discuss the way forward for Sweden. I believe that it would be a strength for both industry and the transformation of the transport sector if we could reach political agreement and have secure conditions for the future instead of political pie-throwing.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-300	Madam President, I would like I share Anders Ygeman's view that broad agreements are good. These are long lead times in energy policy, which is why we need to be able to think long-term. Then, however, we must share the fact base. Anders Ygeman usually complains about me because I have pre-written first posts – yes, but then I get the facts. For example, Anders Ygeman refers to 2010 and that Sweden would have had 80 times as much energy imports from Poland then. That is not true; we have twice as much now as in 2010. This must be based on figures. It is also the case that 25 terawatt hours are less than 60 terawatt hours. It takes 60 terawatt hours to reset the transport sector, and although we are now exporting wind power – which is not a base power that exists just when we press the button, it is intermittent in a different way – it is not enough for 60 terawatt hours, it is about 25 terawatt hours. So we need to share reality, otherwise I do not understand how we can get along. Anders Ygeman soon seems to be the only one in Sweden who really feels at ease with our energy policy. Does Anders Ygeman not read the press, and does he not see how the industries worry? We are often compared with Denmark and Germany, Madam President, but if we look at what Sweden consumes per capita, we see that we have a completely different structure on our industry and production. It takes more than twice as much per capita as it does in Denmark and Germany. Therefore, Sweden cannot have the same energy system, the same energy mix and the same instability in the systems. We have a bnp that builds hugely on our heavy industries, and it has served us well. It has also been the case that we have had a stable energy supply and very low industrial electricity prices, which has benefited us very much – compared to Denmark, we have a fifth such high prices to the industry for production. It is clear that there is a difference between producing pigmeat and producing iron; there is a huge amount of energy going into it. It has not been in the debate yet, but it is often said that we should wait for the link from Norrland to southern Sweden and that everything will change then. That will not be the case in the future either. Now battery factories and large computer halls are being built, and our heavy mining industry is being converted into electric power. Norrland will need its own electricity, and I do not think that in Norrland it is prepared to lose jobs to southern Sweden in order for us to vacuum and make coffee. Instead, I believe that people want their energy and jobs in Norrland. Anders Ygeman is therefore guilty of how all these terawatt hours will arrive, because however you count, they are not enough. That's why it's so hard to get along. We must have a plan so that we do not lose out on the welfare league, where we want to be at the forefront. No one is happier than me if we can have a good wage development and a good prosperity in the country. It serves us well, and it also serves our world well. We'll keep it that way. Then Anders Ygeman must look a little more at the facts and not just serve things that can feel easy and simple. Check out more in the fact book!
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-308	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the reduction of taxes on petrol and diesel, I will tell the Government that we have done this so that people can afford to live in the country and be able to get to their jobs and drive their children to practice. Not everyone lives in the inner city of Stockholm and can take the subway. Not everyone can afford to buy electric cars, and they also need to be charged. When there is a shortage of electricity, it is very doubtful whether you can put your car on charge. Instead of talking about surpluses on an annual basis, Minister Ygeman should concentrate on solving the problem of electricity when it's cold, when the windmills stand still and when people need it. Referring to electricity surpluses on an annual basis is like saying that we have good access to food throughout the year but are starving for two months. It's exactly the same. When it comes to electrification, I'll tell you a story from Örkelljunga. It is a municipality in Skåne where Tesla wanted to establish a charging station with twelve places. However, they could not do so because the supplier could not secure the supply of electricity. Why does this happen when we have no problems, when we have a huge supply of electricity and when we have a surplus before the electrification of the fleet of vehicles has even begun?
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-311	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the terawatt figures. Here we see once again the disadvantage of prescribed lines, Lotta Olsson. I mentioned that there is a difference in efficiency – a diesel or petrol engine has about one third of the efficiency compared to an electric motor. This means that if you are going to run the same car with electricity instead of petrol or diesel, you need one third of the terawatt hours in the fossil fuel. If Lotta Olsson is counting on it, she will see that I am right and that Lotta Olsson is wrong. You might think it's wrong to compare with Denmark and Germany – I don't even know if I mentioned those examples. However, we can compare with Finland. Finland is a net importer of electricity and has an industrial structure similar to that of Sweden. Just as Sweden was when the Moderates ruled Sweden, Finland is the net importer of electricity. Boriana Åberg said we have so little electricity that we can't vacuum. Let me just say that we have an electricity surplus in Sweden in 25 terawatt hours. This is equivalent to 300 million years of vacuuming, so Boriana Åberg can probably vacuum if that's what she wants to spend her time on. Boriana Åberg made a parable of food and said: What if it were with electricity as with food? This is a rather telling example, Boriana Åberg – should we take it to its head? Does Boriana Åberg know what level of self-sufficiency we have on food? It doesn't seem like it. It is about 50% – we import half of the food we eat in Sweden. So we are the net importer of food. Nevertheless, there are very few Moderates who go out and say that we have a food crisis in Sweden. As far as electricity is concerned, the opposite is true; we are net exporters of electricity. We export 25 terawatt hours of electricity. This is as much as the total electricity consumption of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania, or 75% of Denmark's electricity consumption if you want to choose a larger country. When the Moderates ruled Sweden in 2010, the ratio was reversed. Did we then have a worse electrical crisis than we have now, according to Boriana Åberg's meaning? That would be exciting to hear.
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-318	Madam President, I would like I don't think Anders Ygeman should be so tough on the facts. It's equivalent to 55 terawatts if you rewrite it to electrical energy. It is not I who say this, but I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look at this. Then all of this is of course hypothetical – we will not get every diesel car and every old truck in Sweden to go on electricity. But Anders Ygeman has to face facts if we are to agree on electricity issues. If Anders Ygeman believes in Santa Claus and we don't, how are we gonna fix a Christmas together? It doesn't work that way. We need long-term planning. Like Anders Ygeman, I believe in fossil-free society, and I think it would be a great pity if we lost the lead that Sweden actually has. We have the world's chance to become a pioneer in infrastructure production and to become the first fossil-free welfare country in the world. But if we do not take this ball and start believing in Santa Claus and that Poland will help us – or, as in previous debates, that Norway will fix it – this will not happen. I think we should be very careful about making ourselves dependent on Poland. There they will switch their carbon-based energy production. There are 300 000 people working on energy production and coal in Poland, and we are going to switch to nuclear power instead. Anyone who has been involved in a change work knows that this will not be easy. I wish Poland every success, and that's great. But I say watch out!
i-cb317c5696f9cf6f-322	Madam President, I would like In these pandemic times, we will have to continue to celebrate Christmas each way until we get through the pandemic. Then I hope that we can come back to a responsibility for Sweden with many parties in Parliament's chambers. Just as Lotta Olsson expresses, I am of the opinion that Sweden has unique opportunities to cope with the green transition, both to eliminate Sweden's climate emissions and to help make an important contribution to other countries being able to reduce their climate emissions. Last year, we were involved in helping to reduce emissions in Europe more than we have ever done before by pushing off fossil electricity generation in other countries. After all, we had an energy agreement based on the energy agreement that the then four bourgeois government parties made under the moderate-led government. This was renewed during a Social Democratic government, and the Social Democrats and the Green Party came into being. It aimed to provide long-term and secure conditions for 30 to 40 years. Unfortunately, the Moderates and Christian Democrats chose to leave it after only three years. I'm sorry about that. Many of the issues that Lotta Olsson and I have debated here today and discussed earlier were on the table for negotiation. I hope and wish that the Moderates and Christian Democrats will leave this somewhat more short-sighted and populist rhetoric and instead take a little more responsibility for Sweden. I also hope that I can do what I can to contribute to such a development.
