i-677a29e30f9a9412-8	Madam President, I would like Mr Hervieu has asked me whether I and the government have sufficient knowledge of how organised crime exploits the strained situation of the country's entrepreneurs. Furthermore, he has asked me whether I intend to take specific measures to prevent organised crime from exploiting individual entrepreneurs who have been severely affected during the crisis and whether I intend to take measures to protect individual entrepreneurs who are at risk of exploitation. The government has taken a series of comprehensive measures to alleviate the strained situation of the coronapandemy for the country's entrepreneurs. These measures contribute to reducing the vulnerability of companies to organised crime. Examples include short-term lay-off and conversion aid. Under these measures, more than SEK 37 billion has been paid so far. Another important measure to support companies through the crisis is the deferral of tax payments. Until mid-January, SEK 39 billion has been granted for a period of grace. Additional measures include temporary rebates on fixed rental costs in vulnerable sectors, turnover support to individual traders and a specific framework for reimbursement of sick pay costs. The special regulatory framework to reimburse employers' medical expenses meant that approximately SEK 20 billion was added in 2020. The joint work of the authorities against organised crime is also important for tackling crime. The work has been going on for over ten years and is reported regularly to the Government. The authorities describe, among other things, how criminal networks engage in business activities, and by disregarding laws and regulations, tax-funded welfare systems are abused and distorted competition. In June 2020, the Government decided on mandates to the twelve authorities involved in the joint work on organised crime to set up pilot projects aimed at economic activities linked to organised crime. The assignment shall be presented by 1 October 2021. Companies can also use a s in criminal contexts such as money laundering and fraud. In order to make it more difficult for criminals to use companies as a crime tool, the Swedish Companies Registration Office 2018 was commissioned by the Government to report its preventive work against financial crime and possible measures to increase the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing or other financial crime. In addition to work on the 34-point programme against gang crime and other reforms to increase security, the largest ever expansion of the police force in Sweden is underway. In 2024, the Poli Authority will have 10,000 more employees than in 2016, and we are well on our way. The police department has never had more employees before. In order to create a long-term and structured crime prevention work involving the whole of society, the government has developed the national crime prevention programme Together against crime. Business and enterprises play a significant role in crime prevention in a number of ways. Individual entrepreneurs are therefore important players in the fight against crime and insecurity. The government is following developments closely. In this connection, I have also asked for the political authority's picture of the situation.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-16	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The criminal gangs don't lay off their members. They don't start working from home or shoot each other over Skype. When we put on our masks, they won't take off the bulletproof vests. Those who violate society's most basic standards – to live an honest life, not to harm others, and not to see people as victims but fellow human beings – don't care that we are in crisis. They do not relate to the pandemic like the rest of us. On the contrary, the crisis has given them strength. We are taking note of the way in which organised crime is currently putting pressure on companies that are having a particularly difficult time. In the restaurant sector, for example, it is about trying to take over activities or, when aid is delayed, offering quick loans with probably both high interest rates and hard control as a result. Egoism, hunger for power and violent capital are currently being used to clamp down on companies in difficulty. Madam President, I would like It's a perfect storm. Companies are on their knees while criminal gangs have strong financial resources. It told me yesterday when we were talking about this debate, a person with a good insight into these issues. This perfect storm is using the criminals right now to gain momentum, and society must respond. Some of the efforts referred to by the Minister for Justice are good, and the Center Party has been involved in developing them. Today, however, it is about the situation of companies here and now. We welcome the pilot project initiated by the government; that is a good thing. However, the letter prepared by the government for this project does not say anything about today's particular situation, despite the fact that the letter was produced in the midst of the pandemic. There is no mention of the impact of the pandemic on companies right now. As I understand it – the Minister of Justice will be happy to correct me if I have misunderstood – the project involves seeking out businesses that are already known to be affected by organised crime. That is, of course, a good thing, and we welcome it as I said. However, it does not capture the whole picture. It does not capture that criminal gangs here and now are approaching, for example, taverns to try to take over their activities. When a criminal gang takes over a restaurant or other business, an honest entrepreneur has already been knocked out. The pilot project is very welcome but does not take into account the exceptional situation we are currently in. Madam President, I would like That is also why the Committee on Justice decided this morning, on the initiative of the Center Party, to invite the Minister of Justice to the committee to discuss this serious situation further. The Center Party has also urged the Minister of Justice to obtain more information from the police, which is also welcome. Madam President, I would like Of course, the Minister of Justice may have had a dialogue with individual entrepreneurs on this. Perhaps he has sat down with entrepreneurs who have faced organized crime at his bar and in his dining rooms. So if the Minister of Justice thinks we're exaggerating the problem, my call to the Minister of Justice is to speak! Calm down! But if the Minister of Justice has not sat down with these entrepreneurs, my call is: Listen! Take note of their stories! Madam President, I would like My question was not what the Minister of Justice and the Government, among other things, have done with the Center Party in recent years and years before it, but what the government and the Minister of Justice are planning to do after this debate, tomorrow, next week and beyond.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-26	Madam President, I would like I think I am saying that the pilot project is taking account of the situation at the moment. A project of this kind is not carried out in a vacuum but of course takes account of what is happening here and now. It was good that it was launched last year to have a watch on this particular issue and perhaps increase the intensity of law enforcement against the criminal gangs. Hanne Hervieu is, of course, right in his fundamental question. These criminals are like vultures and exploit the distresses of others for their own profit, and of course there is a risk that they will strengthen their activities in this situation. It is therefore a good thing that Mr Hervieu is paying attention to this. I would like to say that, as a result of the interpellation, we contacted Noah, the National Operations Department, within the Police Authority to hear their assessment, also with regard to the concrete example in Östergötland mentioned in the interpellation. The assessment from Noah's intelligence department is that the problem has existed for a long time but that, after all, so far, there can be no increasing trend. That's the message from Noah. The writing in the report from Östergötland was about a single case in Linköping where the circumstances were unclear. So far Noah, that is. Nevertheless, the problem exists, and it has existed for a long time. That is the background to the launch of special pilot activities. I think there is a lot in what Mr Hervieu says, that there is a risk that the problem will grow and grow the longer the economic crisis is going on. That should be taken seriously, Madam President, but it can only be tackled in two ways. One is with increased intensity in law enforcement. Here I would like to remind you of everything we have done in recent years. We have considerably strengthened the law enforcement authorities since we visited them. The police have more money than they've ever had before. We are training three times as many police officers as the Alliance government did in its day. We actually have more police officers in Sweden right now than we've ever had. We started two new police training courses, one in Malmö and one in Borås. The first hills from these two training courses went out the other day, and they continue to increase the number of employees in the agency in order to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. In addition, we have tightened up a large number of penalties, some of which have bearings right here. For example, we tightened the penalties for grossly illegal threats during the last parliamentary term. We tightened the penalties for gross blackmail, even during the last parliamentary term. These are examples of precisely such crimes that traders can be subjected to by the criminal gangs and where we have tightened our eyesight. The police have been given new tools. The last time it was secret data reading that makes it easier to follow the communication between the criminal gangs. And, as I said, we are increasing the number of police workers in general and are already halfway towards the target we have set ourselves of 10,000 more employees by 2024. That is one way, that is to increase the intensity of law enforcement. The second is to ensure that companies are given financial support so that they do not run the risk of financial inconveniences that criminals can then exploit. There we have gone in with historically great efforts to the business community. If you add these together, both deferred taxes and direct subsidies, it will be almost SEK 100 billion in support, precisely so that the companies can cope with the situation. Of course, we will continue to do this as long as the crisis continues. There we have cooperation with the Center Party on economic policy, and I look forward to continuing to do so.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-34	Madam President, I would like I think that, in general, a somewhat more humble attitude in politics might be needed. The conviction that everything you do is good and that what everyone else has done before has not been good enough is not necessarily what takes policy developments forward. The conviction of own perfection makes politics worse, but the curiosity and humility of wanting to reconsider and see others' proposals makes it better. When Morgan Johansson brings up the alliance government, which takes place in every other debate about security, I think about my little son back home. He's four months old and hasn't started talking yet, but I hope the first word is mom or dad. I feel quite convinced that Morgan Johansson's first word as a child was the Alliance. Madam President, I would like A boxing match ends if one of the boxers succeeds in knocking the other out, but that's not how it works in criminal policy. There is not a reform or a battle that will knock out organised crime, as I know the Minister of Justice is well aware. However, round after round with different conditions. I still do not feel, Madam President, that the Minister for Justice takes full account of the specific conditions that are currently in force. It is gratifying that Noah says that they do not see a sharp increase, but it is also quite obvious, both through media reporting and through the individual conversations that I and others have had with entrepreneurs, that there are problems. Above all, as the Minister of Justice himself mentioned, vulnerability is increasing at the moment, and it is important to be prepared. The Minister of Justice highlighted the support that, among others, the Center Party has been involved in fighting to push forward. These are many and very good, but here too we need to be humble and see that the situation remains difficult. One perspective that has been raised in the discussions that I have had before this debate is that many of the criminal networks focus on the relatively start-up taverns, which do not have the same right to benefit from the subsidies. Here I think it is important to continue to be humble and to continue to see what new solutions we may need to find. To return to my boxing likeness: It takes both the strength that Ingemar Johansson had in his heavyweight boxing, in the form of the reforms that the Minister of Justice mentioned, but also the speed that Muhammad Ali had in his footwork. It is this speed that I miss in the response of the Minister of Justice. Madam President, I would like I would just like to briefly reproduce another discussion that I had with an entrepreneur in the run-up to this debate. It is a trader who has marked against the criminal gangs in his area. He said they were staring at me. Then they went into his shop and said to him, "We're going to burn your shop down." We're gonna rape your wife. We're gonna beat up your son. They spit in his face and walked away. Then they waited outside in the parking lot. He told me how they had coal on him and exactly how he moved. The gang leader visited the store and explained that he could of course guarantee that nothing would happen as long as the store owner did not talk to the police. I have promised to return to this entrepreneur after the debate. My question to the Minister for Justice, Madam President, is therefore: what should I tell him?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-42	Madam President, I would like I think Mr Hervieu can tell him that we will continue to set aside the resources needed to strengthen the fight against crime. We will also continue to tighten the penalties against this particular type of gang criminal. We have already done so for gross blackmail and grossly illegal threats, as it may have been in the case in question. We will continue during this term of office to tighten the penalties for gang-related crimes. We have a special investigator, Anders Perklev, who is now reviewing that particular page, and we will continue to do everything we can to cage these individuals, who of course should not go loose on the streets. We are now seeing an effect of what we did during the last term of office, when we strengthened the police, strengthened the prosecution, tightened the penalties, increased camera surveillance and simply made sure to increase the tools available to the police. I see this now, not least in the penal services, where we fill up both prisons and prisons. We have 1 000 more people in custody now than we had two years ago. This is an effect of the fight against crime being launched. We have 100% occupancy both in custody and in prisons, and we have to expand them. People who used to run around with guns in the city are now sitting in the cage because we tightened the penalties for the serious weapons crimes. If you leave home now with a weapon that you are not entitled to and the police take you there is a great risk that you will not come home again in at least two years. This was not the case before 2018, but then you were released into the street again, sometimes the same day or perhaps the day after you were questioned. Now, then, a large number of the felons who previously ran around the streets in the cage. There are no shortcuts in this. It's about abrading day in and day out and taking these individuals one by one. I can assure both Mr Hervieu and the entrepreneur with whom he has spoken that our position is that we will continue to ensure that the law enforcement authorities have the resources and tools they need to intervene against the criminal circles. I can guarantee you that. That's the part. Then I believe that the whole issue of aid to industry is relevant for prevention. That is why I am referring to it in my reply. It is clear that it has been of great importance that we have now committed EUR 100 billion to industry in the form of direct aid and deferred taxes. I think it should be remembered that the reason we can do that is because we have well-managed public finances at the bottom. During the last term of office, we amortised the public debt by SEK 130 billion, and we entered this term of office with the lowest public debt since 1977. It is therefore the successful economic policy of the last parliamentary term that has meant that Sweden now has economic muscle. When we entered the crisis, we had among the strongest public finances in Europe, and this means that we have the economic muscles to cope with this situation. I think it is a lesson that if you put away money in the good years you can use it in the bad years. We are now using them to support industry, among other things, so that we can get through this crisis as well as possible. And Sweden is a country that has better conditions than many other countries. After all, I think this is a lesson, that is, the successful economic policy that we pursued during the last parliamentary term has now given us exactly the space that we need to ensure that we support both business and employees through this crisis.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-49	Madam President, I would like It is of course gratifying that the Minister of Justice is so proud that Sweden has been able to amortise the public debt, although I may think that this kind of argument does not reassure the restaurant owner who finds it difficult to amortise his own mortgage in this situation. It is good that efforts have been made. The support that we have been involved in developing together is good. However, as I touched upon in a previous speech, the stories that we have heard in the discussions ahead of this debate relate to the fact that gangs have focused on start-ups, which thus find it more difficult to access the subsidies. It is therefore still a very high risk that honest entrepreneurs – restaurant owners who have dreamt of opening a restaurant to hear the buzz of the dining room, provide the perfect service, run out into the kitchen and tell them that the gang at table 7 loved the chef's steak Rydberg – now instead encounters a pandemic that knocks away the bones of their businesses and as a sour cream on the cake risks facing criminal gangs who try to exploit their serious situation. Madam President, I would like I therefore hope that the Minister of Justice does not see these debates or criticisms of what I am highlighting as a problem and does not try to focus on political conflicts. The problem is crime, and the conflict is with the criminal gangs. Madam President, I would like When I have the opportunity, I would also like to address the country's tavern owners: we know that you are frustrated, but we have not forgotten you. However, I would also like to address organised crime, if we are supposed to see this debate: we know that you have good confidence at the moment. But we haven't forgotten you either. To those who are concerned about the use of the pandemic by organised crime, I would like to say: I understand your concern. But society stands strong and is on your side.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-55	Madam President, I would like Of course, we agree on this. It is clear that we are on their side, that is, those who have been threatened, persecuted and harassed by the criminals. On the other hand, I am not so convinced that criminals have very good confidence because many of them are in prison now. We have 1 000 more people in custody now than we had just two years ago. And the police all over the country are doing a very good job at the moment by targeting these criminal gangs in a way that I would say has never happened before. I see in Malmö, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Uppsala how the police, so to speak, use their new resources, their new team opportunities and their new tools in a way that we have not been able to see before. As I was in the past, there are then no shortcuts, but it is a question of abrasion day after day and cage these individuals one by one as soon as you can get them and, as I said, fill up jails and prisons. Then we'll have to extend that part, too, so that we can handle this. I do not think, therefore, that there are any differences of opinion on this, but that is the case. I can guarantee both the traders that Mr Hervieu is talking about here and those who may see this debate that we will continue to strengthen the ability of law enforcement authorities to combat this type of crime. We will then continue to work on what we call the 34 point programme. It not only contains 34 measures, but I believe that there are a hundred or so measures against organised crime. In this respect, the legislative changes in the coming years will further enhance access to criminal gangs. We will do everything we can to uproot this gang crime with its roots. I can guarantee that to everyone who looks at this debate.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-60	Madam President, I would like Acko Ankarberg Johansson has asked me why the investigation S 2014:02 was closed and what analysis was the basis for the government's decision. The Government took office in October 2014. A fundamental task for all newly appointed governments is to consider the investigative needs. This includes examining whether investigations already in place correspond to the policies that the incoming government wants to pursue and the needs that exist. The assessment is also affected by how long the investigation has worked and when it will report. When the government took office, a key priority was to shift the focus from tax cuts and privatisations to increasing municipal resources and building a stronger welfare. The change in policy orientation also applies to elderly care. That is why the government is implementing the biggest national investment in care for the elderly ever. That is why the government is implementing the so-called Elderly Care Lift, in which over 10,000 people are given the opportunity to train with a permanent job as a nurse or nurse on paid working hours. And that is why the government is investigating the possibility of introducing a permanent care contact in the home care service, protecting the professional title of assistant nurse, strengthening medical skills and developing a new care law for the elderly. That the government chose to close the Elderly Investigation should be seen as part of the changed policy direction. I therefore look forward today to telling you more about the government's work forward.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-65	Madam President, I would like The Corona Commission concluded that we have failed to protect the elderly in particular, and that there are structural deficiencies in the care of the elderly. It is an important conclusion that we are dealing with errors in organisation, structure, structure and systems rather than possible mistakes by individuals at the time. The Commission points out that we have a fragmented organisation and that we need higher staffing, increased skills and reasonable working conditions. Finally, the Commission considers that the care of the elderly was unprepared and ill-equipped when the pandemic struck and is rooted in structural deficiencies known long before the outbreak of the virus. For these shortcomings, the current government – like the previous governments that have had this knowledge – bears the ultimate responsibility, it writes. Madam President, I would like I share the Commission's view and know that we should have done more. During the alliance period, for example, we invested more than SEK 4 billion in the most ill elderly. We invested in better food and more drug reviews, care lifts and much more. But it was not enough on the basis of the challenges we saw and on the basis of the gratifying fact that we live longer but will therefore also need more care for the elderly. We didn't think it was enough. That's why we set up a broad investigation to look at elderly care. The directives were: Swedish healthcare and care are facing significant challenges in the coming decades. Municipalities and county councils need to develop healthcare and care interventions in a way that gives the individual more influence, security and self-determination over their own lives. Measures need to be taken to develop the prerequisites for the preventive efforts of municipalities and county councils so that this work can become an integrated task in all care and care for the elderly. The debate article that the investigators wrote in Dagens Nyheter at DN Debate before Christmas shows that they identified systemic and structural deficiencies in their work, just as the Corona Commission points out. I cannot ignore the fact that we might have been able to remedy some of the shortcomings if the investigation had been completed and then been the subject of parliamentary and government decisions. Instead, we had six years without action. That is the situation we have today. Now the Minister of Social Affairs says that the government chose to close the investigation because it wanted to change its focus on care for the elderly. I wonder very much whether the government really means it. In the final memo that the investigation did – it is in the Government Office, and we have requested it from there – when it was to be closed down, it was written: For the care and care of the most ill elderly, the interventions, regardless of the performer, must be integrated. In general, the gap between municipal and county-run care and care needs to be overlapd in the case of severely ill elderly people. It also states: There must also be a coordinated organisation with the elderly care of municipalities that will enable healthcare to be provided around the clock if necessary. A little later, it is written: Many relatives today have to take a great responsibility to help the severely ill elderly to orient themselves in the care apparatus. Family members must receive better support than they do today. The most ill elderly need continuity in care. I also note one important point a little later on: responsible principals should pay attention to the impact of remuneration systems on the conditions for a more person-centred way of working. Is this not an elderly care that the government wants to work on? Is this not an elderly care we had to develop and improve over the last six years?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-77	Madam President, I would like There are, of course, many roots in this, both in this interpellation debate and – we should be honest and say – when it comes to the investigation. There are, of course, parts of how the previous government worked when it came to care for the elderly that we have taken on. We have not rolled back all the reforms that have been made. I do not think that Acko Ankarberg Johansson really means that nothing has happened to elderly care in six years, but let me remind you of many of the things we have done for six years. We are now very close to being able to protect the professional title assistant, which is an investigation that it has been very important to work with. I think it means a lot to the status of the profession, for more people to go there and for us to have a fundamentally higher level of competence. This applies not least to the conclusions of the Corona Commission. We have made it possible to simplify the assessment of aid, which I think we agree on. We have created new forms of housing for the elderly. We have received an investigation that we are now preparing and which is about all elderly people who have home care to have a permanent care contact. We have secured the right to work clothes. It is built on training on paid working hours. However, let me put the words out a little bit when it comes to the previous policy. I believe that Mr Ankarberg Johansson agrees that we do not always think exactly the same, and that it is a government's mission to ensure that we have the tools it needs to implement the policy on which it is elected. After all, in 2007, shortly after the previous alliance government took office, work began on the Free Elections investigation – which the interpeller himself led together with the main secretary, Ellen Hausel Heldahl. It presented a proposal on the Freedom of Choice Act. Just before the 2014 election campaign, there were also proposals for LOV to become mandatory in the care of the elderly in all municipalities in the country. At the same time, a tax credit was introduced to ensure that older people who wish to buy services outside care – or together with private home care companies that also operate. There was therefore a lot of work focused on the inclusion of more actors. It was a national change of system in terms of healthcare and care, where it would be more possible for different actors to enter and provide care, care and services. The description of the investigation that was closed as specifically looking at open-ended contracts and the right to full-time jobs and dealing specifically with the medical issues is not in line with the opinion of those who then made that assessment. Nor is it an assessment I think there is cause for excessive change. We made a shift to also enable new investigations and simply get a different direction. It is partly about resources for care for the elderly, but it is also about all the parts I have just described – not least what has come almost in time, about creating an older care legislation to increase equivalence across the country. It is a matter of ensuring that we actually look at the issue of staffing, forms of employment and levels of competence. I also believe that the second part of the major mission dealing with the medical availability of our special accommodations is very crucial and important. That is what we are pushing at the moment, and my view is not that we would have had all these answers on the table. There were, of course, parts of this that we took forward, but the overall focus had not responded to everything that Acko Ankarberg Johansson describes.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-90	Madam President, I would like It sounds now – and perhaps that's the honest answer – like the newly appointed Social Democratic government felt so bad about alliance reforms as that older people had the opportunity to decide for themselves that they chose to remove everything else, just because it came from the alliance government. I think it was a bad strategy. After all, all governments need to think about that, both now and in the future. In fact, changing your name or closing investigations simply because you're newly-sponsored risks destroying a business by losing momentum. This investigation is one such example. The government should have taken advantage of exactly what it was working on. I read in their final memo about what they were working on and that the government chose not to even use forward. Instead, it was sent to the archives. We had to get started on these changes in care for the elderly earlier. I agree with what the Commission says about many of us being responsible for it. It has been many years since then, and most of what the Minister of Social Affairs has listed are proposals that have not yet been decided in Parliament. I look forward to the decision to protect the professional title for nurses. On the other hand, we have had changes in the area of aid, which I think is excellent, and in the area of shelter. Not least this summer, following the pandemic, there was a measure that gives more people the chance to get a permanent job and also further train themselves to nurses. It is an excellent initiative that we fully agree with and that we have taken up in the past. So that is not where the problems lie, that is to say in what has been done now and in the older investigation that is now coming. The problems are in the six years when it actually didn't happen enough. You can say that it did not happen then but that it is happening now and that you are quite satisfied, but I do not think we should be satisfied. If we meet the Corona Commission's investigation by saying that we are doing everything right; nothing has been done wrong, I think we are betraying the elderly. We need to admit that we have not done enough. We need to admit that changes are needed. My party has pushed for more health care efforts in the care of the elderly, for improved staffing conditions, to remove shared tours and to improve other parts. It is clear that I feel that I should have pushed it even harder, in order to get support in this House and actually get our proposals through – and even more so as to get the support of the voters and be able to form a government, so that we can implement this. But I don't think it works to stand and say as the Minister of Social Affairs: No, we've done everything right. We've done everything you can. Is it not the case that the previous Elderly Investigation had to be used to do something at once? I understand the difficulties and that, of course, a current Minister of Social Affairs cannot speak about a former Minister of Social Affairs or the elderly. I understand that problem. But realize that we have six wasted years when we should have dealt with care for the elderly! That's what I see in front of me. I look forward to the forthcoming older investigation but hope that the government will then realise the need for long-termness, that is, that we, regardless of the government, should agree on the major elements of this. Yet the government appoints a sole investigator. It might have needed to be a parliamentary inquiry to secure the long-term when we are going to make sure that we are dealing with what is structurally flawed and that older people are fragmented. Despite all the good wishes of both this and previous governments, we have not succeeded. That's probably where the Corona Commission comes in, and that's also where I find so much in the previous Elderly Investigation- that the government chose to just send away and not even take part of.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-98	Madam President, I would like First, Acko Ankarberg Johansson says that I have said that everything has been done and that I am satisfied with everything. Then the question is whether I think everything has been done. Thank you for the question, because I have never said that everything has been done and that I am happy with everything. However, I think that a great deal has been done. I also think that Acko Ankarberg overestimates the investigation that the Alliance Government appointed six months before the elections and where the investigator was actually the architect of the LOV legislation. It may well be that a Social Democratic-led government has some views on how an alliance government has designed the directives, on how the investigation works and on what kind of proposals are actually being delivered. If I may quote something from the directives, I can mention the following: With the creation of RUT services, the reforms of freedom of choice and the increased diversity of healthcare and care services, freedom of choice has increased in many parts of Sweden. More options for those wishing to change their housing and a wider range of services, services and goods that older people are looking for will further increase the opportunities for older people to decide for themselves. It is important that older people who need support in order to exercise their self-determination receive information and other support in order to be able to choose. The aim is to ensure that the self-determination of older people means that the overall resources for care are used in a way that is more adapted to the individual's needs and wishes. ..................................................... I understand that this is what we think, but when we talk about what is related to the Corona Commission and talk about how these would have been the answers to it not only the Corona Commission but the whole of society has seen, namely that we need an elderly care that is equipped and where the staff actually have greater care skills structurally to work in the care of the elderly, it is about both countering fragmentation and increasing the skills of nurses. That is why we have worked to protect the professional title. We have not lost six years, but these years have, of course, been used precisely to prepare for a whole change, which you might say it actually means. What are the transition times, what should be required and how do you get credit for past experiences and so on? A very important part is to introduce simplified aid assessment, to have more housing and to improve and strengthen resources not only through general state grants, care for the elderly or special elderly, but also through a redistribution of tax equalisation systems that take greater account of the regions with a demographically tougher situation. I do not agree with Mr Ankarberg Johansson that this investigation would have been the answer to the questions. Parts of them we worked on, perhaps in a different form. I do not share the view that it would be six lost years, but, on the contrary, a great deal has happened with regard to care for the elderly. It is about creating legislation for greater equivalence where we take a grip on manning issues, skills issues and other elements that I do not foresee now, but which I assume the investigator will look at – not entirely alone but together with experts and other representatives. I assume that Parliament's parties will be involved in this work in one way or another. I would like to say that a great deal has been done. Much more will have to be done, but to say that the answers can be searched in the investigation that the alliance government set up, I think is to describe both that investigation and history wrong. I have tried to develop this as best I can – six years later and with three years of my own in this post.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-106	Madam President, I would like I think it came out right now. It was about the fact that the special investigator – an unpolitical official, formerly at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Enterprise and Social Affairs – was the wrong person. That is what it was all about. I don't think that's a good way to work if you're a government. We need to look at what and what proposals we want to make and, not least, use the bases for an investigation; we know that these are very useful when we come up with other proposals. Precisely in order to come up with the measures and reforms we want to come up with, we need evidence. Here the government actively chose to set aside the foundations. These were good proposals for a coordinated person-centred care. It was very much about coordination between the principals. This chose the government to close down and send away without even taking advantage of the evidence available. It must have meant losing speed and time and having to restart. We now need to ensure that we do not have such short-term policies. If we are serious about correcting the shortcomings, we must ensure that there are conditions in which this will last for a long time to come. We really must ensure that we get rid of the fragmentation and that we dare to make the necessary changes. Maybe the upcoming care investigation will help us with that. There are also important thoughts in that investigation as to whether or not it will be enough to regulate what is to be regulated and how we get the opportunity to work locally with something. It is also clear from the memo from the study how important it is for local staff – not least at the workplace – to be able to design their activities. I pointed out that it was pointed out that compensation schemes often counteract exactly this. This is an issue that we should look at together with municipalities and regions – how do we get compensation and legal systems that support the care we want? The investigation had a lot to contribute. We've lost speed. That's it.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-112	Madam President, I would like After all, this government has not rolled back all the reforms; I would like to emphasise that. However, we have wanted to lead developments in a different direction, which I do not think is surprising to anyone. We have slightly different opinions. After all, the work of the alliance government and the direction it pursued were not infrequently about freedom of choice, about private operators and about how grid services would develop. We wanted a different focus on care for the elderly. I think it's misdescribed that it's six lost years. A great deal has happened in these six years, and they have moved in the direction that this government has wanted to work in. I think we are in a number of parts quite in agreement on this. It is about the fact that we are very far ahead in terms of the protected professional title for nurses. It is also a question of simplified aid assessment, which was, of course, part of the investigation that we took on because it was some that we saw as very positive. When you come to questions about what relates to the Corona Commission's criticism – and, once again, to the whole criticism that we see and that we are all now addressing – it is important that we jointly, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, hold on to the issues of care for the elderly in the future. It will not go either for a year or for three years to ensure that the staff there receive permanent posts, receive full time, avoid shared tours, have a higher status and actually have the opportunity to train as assistant nurse and the opportunity to learn the Swedish language if there are shortcomings there. There is much that is not about a club team in this House, but about attitudes and about the fact that different levels actually need to be helped in this. I believe, above all, that it is a question of the fact that care for the elderly must continue to be very high on the agenda. I think I can see how immediate care for the elderly loses attention – that is enough for a few weeks, and then Acko Ankarberg Johansson and I stand here, as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and the Minister for Social Affairs. Let us hope that this bodes well for the elderly in the future.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-118	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman has asked me whether the Swedish Corona strategy, which has so far largely been based on individual responsibility, will go in a different, more decisive direction with the increased powers the new covid-19 law is expected to give. Since the start of the pandemic, the government and the relevant authorities have taken many measures to limit the spread of covid-19. As in the vast majority of countries, the measures have consisted of both legally binding restrictions and advice and recommendations. The fact that individuals have a great responsibility to follow advice, recommendations and restrictions applies not only in Sweden but throughout the world; it is crucial to be able to suppress the spread of infection. There has been broad political agreement on the Swedish strategy, and a close dialogue has been conducted at weekly meetings between all party leaders in the Riksdag. Political unity also means clarity towards the Swedish people about the importance of following advice and recommendations. The broad political support for the Swedish strategy was an important part of its impact. I also note that the interpellant's party colleague Mattias Bäckström Johansson was most recently in Svenska Dagbladet on 7 January 2021 worried that the government would depart from the strategy. The temporary covid-19 law is another tool in dealing with the coronapandemine. The Act entered into force on 10 January 2021. Under the Act, the Government has decided on a regulation that entered into force on the same day. The regulation introduces binding rules on trading venues, gyms and sports facilities, baths and private gatherings. The rules require, among other things, that these activities limit the number of visitors in a way that is safe from the point of view of disease protection and take certain other measures to prevent congestion. The rules previously in force under the so-called prohibition regulation on general meetings and public events have been transferred as a first measure to the new regulation. In order to prepare for an improvement in the situation of infection, there is a need to develop new regulations concerning activities which constitute general gatherings and public events, which take greater account of the possibilities of carrying out these activities in a way that is safe from the point of view of disease protection. The work will be carried out on an ongoing basis based on assessments of the current contamination situation. The Government sees the Temporary Covid-19 Act as an important tool to ensure that the restrictions that apply are more accurate than the Order Act has allowed. If necessary, the government will make further use of the temporary covid-19 law to regulate areas where congestion may occur and where there is a risk of infection.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-124	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Which society is the best – the society in which citizens obey the law because they are virtuous or the society in which citizens obey the law because they fear the rule of law? I believe that I and the Minister agree that this is the first type of society we want, and that is how Sweden has traditionally worked over the last 100 years. The citizens of Sweden have great confidence in their authorities and in the country's management – in any case, when there is a crisis situation, people with other opinions also have great confidence in the country's management. It will be a much nicer society, and it costs a lot less. There is no need for such a great power of order and equally severe punishment if the majority of the population actually have a common sense of justice and a common understanding of what is morally right and what is to be followed. Countries further south in Europe do not have the same confidence in authorities and politicians, and there is also a need for more order power, tougher penalties and more control. That's a little bit why I've put this interpellation. I do not think that individual ministers and directors-general, after the revelations that came in the intervening days, have been super-large vectors. That is not why I have put this interpellation, but because I believe that disclosure greatly damaged confidence in the strategy that we have chosen with individual responsibility, reason and a common fight against the pandemic. It kind of got off. I was very moved myself when I heard the Prime Minister's speech to the nation. I really felt like he was talking to me. It was a dramatic, serious speech, but it was also an honest speech - I thought then. I thought this was really good. Now, together, we are really going to follow these recommendations and requests. We are really going to fight the pandemic together. All Swedish citizens also received a text message from MSB. It pointed out the importance of trying to cancel unnecessary journeys and that if you traveled you would do so in isolation and not meet any new people. A while later it was discovered that the Director General of MSB only hours after packing the bags and went to Las Palmas for the third time in the autumn. It was also revealed that the Prime Minister we were all three times out in the Christmas trade and did exactly what he had said we should not do. What the Prime Minister had said was: Cancel, book or postpone all the things you would like to do but which are not necessary. After all, shopping for watches, razors, and Christmas presents was something that we had all been told to avoid. I think we all agree that we want to retain our strategy, based on individual responsibility and a common understanding of what is right and what is wrong, so that we can fight the pandemic together. What are you going to do to regain the confidence of the population? I think it's very damaged. I hope you have some sort of plan for this.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-133	Madam President, I would like Let me say that the strategy does not involve people being willing to behave. It is not the strategy we have chosen, it is precisely a combination, just as I wrote in my written reply to the interpellation. There are parts where we regulate and where we prohibit, but there are of course also areas where the legislation does not get in. I think Mikael Strandman can agree with me when, for example, it comes to private gatherings and how to check how many people you have in your own home. It is a matter of conscience and morality, but of course it is also a matter of having knowledge, of understanding how the virus spreads and of abstaining from it. The second part concerns workplaces, where we also know that there is a high risk of infection. That is why so many people are asked to work at home and the reason why the public actors, the authorities, should take the lead and show the good example. It is very important to be able to describe the strategy that way. I think Mikael Strandman could stay too good to describe it as the Prime Minister rummaging around in the Christmas trade. But I still think the tone was very reasoning. I think it is important, because it is not the case that a strategy is established and cannot be changed. A strategy is, of course, an approach, something to keep in mind. Just as Mikael Strandman said at the beginning, it is good if you do not have all that control and the police. I really don't think that's what we're supposed to have the Swedish police to do, and even if that were the case, the mission would actually be beyond their control. In some way, it is not only the police, but gradually we end up in a situation in society where we are to monitor each other, take pictures of each other and report each other. I think it would be very unfortunate if that were where we ended up. If Mikael Strandman wants to hang up an entire eleven months of pandemic management, strategy and action on what was revealed during the Christmas season, which I think all those who have been mentioned have commented, I think you may still have some proportions, Mikael Strandman, when talking about changing strategies. We had a development during the Christmas and New Year weekends that I think the entire Swedish people and all the businesses should take advantage of. I very much hope that it is our common behaviour that has led us now hopefully to a slightly more positive development. But if we let it go and think that now it's free, that I can ignore those restrictions that no one will see if I'm breaking, there's a great risk that we can have a new rise. We shall certainly not end up there. The picture is not that we have got a situation where people do not feel confidence in the Swedish strategy. But we have a situation in Sweden, as in the rest of Europe, which other countries call pandemic disease – that we are actually rather tired of the pandemic. That's what we're fighting now. The measures we need to take may need to look different, not only from what we know about the virus and what is happening in our world, but also from what people need to maintain behaviour that makes us have the right effects. I would like to end this speech by saying that it is important that the aim is for us to have the effects in society of smaller movements, less congestion, fewer social contacts and calls to mainly socialize and have close physical contact with them in our own household. It is very crucial and will be for a long time to come.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers! I certainly do not think that we should dwell on what has been, but I think we should look forward to what is to come and how we should do it. After all, the strategy is based both on individual responsibility and on the common sense of law that we should fight the pandemic together. Then, of course, we also have legislation to point out certain important things. It was also apparent during the middle days that the Minister of Finance had been up in Sälen and caught in the act in a ski rental shop and that Morgon Johansson had been on a midday sale. All that the government and, above all, the Prime Minister had asked us not to do, you did not obey yourself. I don't think any of them would be a super-sprinkler who's started some kind of spread. It's theoretically possible. But that is not why I set my interpellation, but because it is so important that you, who lead the country and also the heads of the authorities, set a good example and that the people have confidence in you. It was really a quiet deal that this was good for you and that we should follow it. Then came this revelation. Whatever you say, I am convinced that there was a crisis of confidence. Not only have I read what writers from left to right write on the editorial pages, but it is also what I hear among people. I will quote what Lena Mellin writes in Aftonbladet:.But with what weight will new harsh messages be received by the citizens? Worst case with a mockery. At best, only with significantly lower credibility than before Christmas and Canary Islands. I feel like I'm a little rebellious, actually. There's a little bit in this. I believe that if we are to regain confidence in and be able to stick to the fine strategy that we have with individual responsibility and that together we are fighting the pandemic, it must be some kind of apology from the government, that people are asked to have confidence once again and say: Yes, what we did was reprehensible. It was really wrong. We understand that, as representatives of the country, we have a special responsibility. If we do not follow the recommendations, we cannot ask anyone else to do so either. That's why we're putting all our cards on the table now. We're really giving the apology from the heart. We have an action plan, and we will restore confidence in MSB. We promise you this won't happen again. Together with all of you in the country, we will fight the pandemic. I think that would be the best thing, so that we can get a fresh start and get the effective tool that it actually is to have the whole people with us. Then we can fight the pandemic together.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-150	Madam President, I would like Given the interpellation that is submitted, I understand that Mikael Strandman has a completely different agenda. He expects me to comment on individual ministers or on opposition representatives who sit in Spain and comment on other politicians who they think should behave better. I think that many people can certainly think about how they have been able to cope for ten months and whether they have followed all the recommendations and restrictions. If Mikael Strandman had wanted, he would have been able to listen to how the Prime Minister has described in several interviews that he understands that it was careless and that he might have been able to do so in a different way. But it is also important to describe. It is not just a matter of following the recommendations of not contributing to congestion, but one should expect ministers, representatives and high-ranking people to set an example and do much more than that. If, however, the question relates to what is stated in the interpellation, the Swedish Corona strategy, which has so far been largely based on individual responsibility, will take a different, more decisive approach, with the increased powers the new covid-19 law is expected to provide, then my answer is that we do not intend to come up with a different strategy. I also heard Mikael Strandman say that we have a nice strategy – I think that was the word that was used. In the 2022 elections, all the parties in this House will, I guess, request new mandates from the voters in the hope of leading the country. I have no other answer for the strategy than what I have already given: it is a combination of following recommendations and what might be called voluntary. However, I think that it is the wrong word to use when it comes to recommendations from the authorities. We're supposed to follow them. Rules on noise levels, for example, are also something that we are expected to follow. Otherwise, it can be followed up and lead to even more stringent rules. In the spring there were measures. They had a very good effect, as good effect as action in many other countries. It was an incredibly tough situation at the beginning of the pandemic when it came to trying to stop it, with as little knowledge of the virus as we had then. We had a long summer and an early autumn where for perhaps longer than many other countries we had to avoid the spread of infection. This may have caused many people to feel: This may have been almost lost. Is that possible? Of course, this was not the case. Like other countries, we are once again being hit and allowed to take new measures. Only today, together with the Prime Minister, the Director-General of the Public Health Agency and three more ministers, have I given the information that is valid for two more weeks. We are also clear that although vaccinations are going well, are running and rolling out over Sweden, it does not mean that we will be able to release measures. For a long time to come, we will need a great deal of acceptance and understanding of what is being done and which everyone needs to do.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers! I don't want the Minister to think I have a different agenda. Actually, I want us to keep this tool. I really had confidence in the Prime Minister when he gave his speech to the nation. I want us to have it again. I'm sorry, Minister, but I haven't seen any direct excuses. The Prime Minister was in an interview and said that there was no people there when he was shopping. But probably there was no people there when he acted because most of them followed the Prime Minister's recommendations. It's not about the way he individually did this, it's about a bigger thing than that. Our representatives must set an example. This week there was a demo scan in Aftonbladet. It showed that less than a third have confidence in MSB, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. It is worrying to see such low levels of confidence in the authority that people should turn to in the event of a disaster in society, if anything else happens. So I think you have some work to do here. I think there would somehow be a need for a restart. Perhaps you should come up with a form of action plan for how to restore confidence in MSB after what has happened. I do not think it is enough that you have fired Dan Eliasson for the umpteenth time, and that everything should then be fine. I think maybe people still didn't have much faith in him. But they had great confidence in the Prime Minister. That is why I think something more is needed. Thank you for the debate.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-163	Madam President, I would like The authority MSB is not under me. I do not, therefore, intend to give any detailed answers in this regard. But I think it is quite clear that with a new Director-General there is, of course, an intention to deal with situations in a slightly different way. However, that question may well be put to those who are responsible for it. Mikael Strandman, Member of Parliament of the Swedish Democrats, says that he has had full confidence in the Prime Minister during this pandemic. But when the Prime Minister pulled out the spare part for his watch, it was completely destroyed, and Mikael Strandman demands some kind of apology. I think it is very nice if before there was full confidence in the Prime Minister. That it was so easily demolished, I'm really sorry. I think Mikael Strandman could look at some of the interviews that have been done where the Prime Minister just explains, explains and describes in a way that I think is confidential. I don't know if Mikael Strandman will agree when he looks at them.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-166	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that disabled people have access to wheelchair garages when now the Supreme Administrative Court has made a different interpretation of the work of the law than was the case when I answered the written question. Lars Beckman has also asked whether I should take the initiative to change legislation and when this may be in place and, finally, whether I am in dialogue with SKR to ensure a short-term solution to the problem. The national objective of disability policy is to achieve, on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, equality in living conditions and full participation of persons with disabilities in a society based on diversity. The aim is to contribute to greater gender equality and to taking into account the perspective of children's rights. The Government has taken several measures to strengthen support for people with disabilities, in terms of both personal assistance and car support. The purpose of the Housing Adaptation Grant Act is to provide people with disabilities with the opportunity to live independently in their own homes through housing adaptation grants. Housing adjustment allowance is provided to adapt and supplement fixed functions in and in connection with a dwelling. Healthcare heads shall provide assistive devices to persons with disabilities. In the present case, the medical principal has assessed that the individual needs an electric wheelchair. However, the type of storage that has been deemed appropriate to protect the instrument against weather and wind was not considered by the Court to be such an adaptation as the housing allowance may be paid for. It is unfortunate if the consequence is that the individual cannot accept the aid he or she needs. I will examine the question more closely, how the need for wheelchair garages can be met. Dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions can be a good start. It is important that there are no legal obstacles that make it difficult for people to accept aids. I also assume that municipalities and regions will look at the opportunities available under other legislation to support individuals in need of tools so that they will also have the opportunity to receive them.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-171	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Those who have a functional variation and need the support of society have had a difficult and tough time since 2014. Thousands of people have lost their personal assistance under the LSS, and thousands more will lose their personal assistance, according to the government's own budget. Those who need their cars adapted to the handicaps have also seen severe deteriorations. Thus, new statistics on housing adaptation and the housing adjustment allowance have now arrived. It has decreased sharply in Sweden, according to the Swedish Housing Adaptation Industry Association. After this interpellation debate, will the minister get their report increasingly difficult to get housing adaptation – intention or unintended consequence of the new law? The law changed in 2018. The aim was not to deteriorate in any way, at least not in the way I understood it; the issue was dealt with in my committee. The idea was to improve or simplify legislation. The consequences have been dramatic out there. I can take a few headlines as an example. The Swedish Radio P4 says that Per's own home became his prison. This is about a man who is in a wheelchair and who does not get the adaptations he needs. He's not coming out. It is also about Tommy who moved from Dalarna to Gävleborg. He has an electric wheelchair, and in Dalarna he had a wheelchair garage. He needs one of those, but he gets nothing. His mobility is seriously deteriorating. It is also about William in Gävle who is denied a door opener. There, Chairman of the National Planning Board Daniel Olsson – a party friend of Minister Lena Hallengren – says that a legislative proposal is very clear on what the municipality can provide funding for, but also what can not be contributed to. This is one thing that one might really think he should receive a grant for, but if he is, it must be a change of law. ..................................................... We are in an absurd situation: a person has the right to a per-mobile, which can be a life-changing tool, but at the same time the person cannot keep his per-mobile. The region then says – of course rightly – that the product is so valuable that if you cannot store it anywhere, the region cannot give it to the person in question. For the last 25 years this has been solved with a wheelchair garage. It is a mobile, portable story that costs about 50,000 crowns for the individual. Everyone agrees that these are needed. But a judgment came on 23 December that says that the municipalities have interpreted the law correctly, i.e. that according to applicable law you should not give wheelchair garages as aids. This means that there are a lot of people of whom many older people have worked and paid taxes all their lives, but when they on the older days of life need the support of society, they suddenly don't get it. To be honest, I think the individual doesn't care who pays the wheelchair garage, whether it's the region or the municipality. But for 25 years it has been paid through the housing adjustment allowance. Therefore, I may think that the Government's response is possibly somewhat defensive. With the serious signals that have come to light that the legislation is not working, I would have liked the Government to have come to this House and said: of course we should very quickly review the legislation so that William, Tommy, Per and everyone else can live the life that the intention is in the Government's response, namely that everyone has the right to live the same life as the rest of us.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-182	Madam President, I would like There are of course different pictures of how the area has developed. I would like to comment on this with assistance and car support, which was not really the question put by the interpellier, but it came up in his speech here. I don't understand why Lars Beckman describes changes in car support as a deterioration. On the contrary, we have tried to remedy the deterioration that has occurred in the past. The proposal presented in 2019/ 20 was about increasing efficiency so that individuals should not have to buy too large cars, for example. One should also be able to increase the ability to adapt the car to the individual's needs. These are improvements that are included in this legislation. Then things happen all the time, and that's why we stand here now and have done it before. We create legislation and have certain intentions, but then the Court does not always judge accordingly. It is not only regrettable but also difficult to deal with. It's one thing when you do something deliberately so that it becomes a deterioration. Then you can change back if it didn't turn out so good. But when you haven't actually done it? This brings me to what is precisely about the housing allowance. There may be some people listening to the debate who do not know what the housing allowance is. It is a contribution that has existed since the 1960s. So it is not a new contribution that someone has presented and constructed badly, but it has existed for a long time. It is there to be able to adapt the dwelling. The aim is for the individual to be able to own the customization that has been made. Later there has been a change of law, which Lars Beckman raised. He did not describe it as having deteriorated anything, but wanted to codify practice. The municipality was supposed to be able to simply make the whole measure so that it did not just receive a cash grant. One could also get a second-hand measure or adaptation, and it is not unwise to have the possibility of re-use. It does not need to be a housing adaptation only for the owner of the dwelling itself. Perhaps you live with someone else and do not own the dwelling yourself. The contribution shall be paid to the person in need. The possibility should also be provided for a property owner to take over the right to adaptation, for example when there are several in the same house that can benefit from the same adaptation. It is, of course, a good idea in that case. But then came the judgment to which Lars Beckman refers, and it came on December 23rd. May I call it very recently? It's not really ready for analysis. The important thing is that municipalities have been responsible for the housing adjustment allowance since the 1960s. Nothing has been done in the law that says that they should no longer take this responsibility. Therefore, I think Lars Beckman's idea of a dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions is good. It is not given to say immediately that we can easily solve something that has been a municipal responsibility to ensure that an adaptation aimed at the individual takes place – there are also other residential adaptations. It would be excellent if the municipalities could see if there are other parts of our regulations where this can be met. They may be able to see what kind of changes need to be made to clarify this. Lars Beckman and I are not at all in agreement that anyone who needs a tool should get this. But that also applies to the next end. Otherwise, it'll be a moment 22. You get the help, but you don't get the help to keep it. I agree that this is unreasonable in every way. But I could not come here today and bring with me a solution or a complete investigation of this. I think dialogue with SKR is very important in this context. This is on the municipal table. I do not think you have the right to simply say: now we do not have to do that anymore. On the contrary, it is very important to take this on board now.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-193	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that the housing adjustment allowance has existed for a long time and is part of the Swedish general welfare system. For a lot of people, it's life-changing. It can be vital to stay at home, for example. The three examples I listed, including Per who cannot get out of his house, seem to me to be a humiliation. Madam President, I would like The reality is that municipal funds for housing adaptation have decreased by around 25 per cent since 2015, i.e. a quarter. In many municipalities there is a dramatic decline, and following the new legislation from 2018, there has been a dramatic decline. In any case, just as I and the Government agree, from the perspective of the Moderates there was no ambition whatsoever to reduce or reduce the housing allowance. Now, however, we see the consequences of this when, for example, party friends of the Government in Gävle say: No, we do not intend to grant this housing adaptation, because that does not allow the law. When the Chairman of the Civil Protection Committee says that a change of law is required, it is of course a signal to me as a Member of Parliament to take a committee initiative together with my party friends, if the government does not act. It is also a signal to the government to act. There is a major gender equality issue in this. It's about who gets wheelchair garages, which the interpellation is really about. Often it is those who live in multi-detached houses and in apartments. For those who live in their own property, it is probably easier to store the per-mobile, which is what it is all about. It can also have a fixed extension of the property at a significantly higher cost than a wheelchair garage costs. But anyone living in an apartment, Madam President, does not have the same opportunity. If you live in a two in an area in Timrå, for example, you can't store the permobil anywhere. You can't put it in the stairwell. For safety reasons, it is strictly forbidden. MSB, the emergency services and Boverket all say that it is completely indecent; you can't do it. Unfortunately, however, there are municipal housing companies that overlook this, but we must not do so. We have ended up in a situation where an elderly person who needs a per-mobile and has the right to have such a printed-out cannot accept it because there is no place to store it. This is a question that is here and now. For the man in Hofors who in the next few days will have his per-mobile removed because he can't store it anywhere, it's a matter of here and now. It is not a question of saying: we want to see it eventually. I can understand that the Government has been on Christmas leave and, of course, has not acted on a verdict that came on 23 December, especially when the Government on 16 December believed that the law admitted that it would get wheelchair garages. The written answer to me showed that the preparatory work allowed it. But here the Supreme Administrative Court has interpreted the law in such a way that the municipalities have unfortunately interpreted the law correctly, if I may put it that way. After all, it does not matter what I and the Government stand here and think, but what applies is, of course, what the law says. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court has now concluded that the municipalities that deny severely ill people around the country a housing adjustment or a wheelchair garage have interpreted the law correctly. This calls for a very rapid initiative from the government. The legislation itself is in place. I believe that minor corrections to the legislation will resolve the issue.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-202	Madam President, I would like I don't think Lars Beckman's gonna exaggerate my Christmas vacation. This is absolutely an equality issue; it strikes me immediately when I take note of the judgment and Lars Beckman's interpellation. The problem does not arise for those who already have a garage next to the villa. We both realize that. However, I do not think that Lars Beckman should make this too much of a party political issue, when we stand here and agree. But it is possible that social democrats can count on Lars Beckman's support in all situations. Well, that's a good news here and now, isn't it? I do not think I can talk for three minutes and 15 more seconds – my remaining speaking time in this speech – about something that we actually agree on. But I do not think that Lars Beckman is quite right that it would only be a matter of minor corrections that can immediately come back to Parliament in a bill. I think it says in my reply that this is something we need to look further at. This is a very unhappy situation. But it is up to municipalities and regions to ensure that they not only grant an aid but, of course, also grant an aid that can be used. I don't know what to use for expression – at least it's quite obvious that it is. We can't have that. That's why in my interpellation response I said that the dialogue with SKR feels very urgent. We need to see what our paths are. The question is whether legislative changes and minor corrections are needed to achieve something very specific. After all, it is not the case that the Housing Adaptation Act only lists a lot of things and that we then make an addition to something that is missing today. That's not exactly how it's designed. We need to look at this. I think SKR is first instance. It's very important. I also think it is a good thing that the state does not always take over what the municipality cannot solve but makes an attempt to ensure that the municipality solves what is so obvious is its mission. I find it hard to believe that they would answer no to the question of whether it should be their responsibility. The question is what other regulations and opportunities they have. Nor is it that they have been deprived of any financial resources so that they cannot afford to pay for this. There are no such excuses. We simply need to take a closer look at the issue. I intend to do so together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-210	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely excellent that we are in complete agreement. And the government has the authority of the entire department. The Government has full power in the matter and the right of initiative in the matter. Then just act. William says to P4 Gävleborg:中 They discriminate against my right to start my own life. It's a reality. Every day when William comes home with his food bags and cannot open the door himself, it will be a wait for the Government to act. For every person who has received his or her application for accommodation in the form of wheelchair garages, it is precisely today, at this moment, a wait for the Government. For any elderly who remain in their apartment and cannot get a permobil printed out because the government does not act, it will be a long wait for the Government. It's about human dignity. It's about mobility. It is about showing respect for these people, who have the right to live the same life as the rest of us. I would like to ask the Government: when can we, with the information that the Government has at the moment, expect William to have a door opener installed so that he can live a life? When will the older woman in Timrå be able to get her wheelchair garage, which means that she does not have to sit in her little second? What is the Government's timetable? When will something happen that makes a difference to all those people with functional variations who need the support and help of society? Thank you for a good debate!
i-677a29e30f9a9412-215	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman for the discussion, the debate, the discussion. I think it is very constructive for him to draw attention to the issue and highlight it in this way in the House. I hope that Lars Beckman also understands that the legislation on the housing adjustment allowance does not change in a quick fashion. However, this is an issue that is very clearly the responsibility of the municipalities. I do not really believe that we should blame the legislation and not be able to find other opportunities. If it is just the case that we wait for legislation, it takes time, although the services of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who are working very hard, not only with the pandemic but also with everything else, could take on this too. It is not really that simple to just change legislation when you have a specific part that you would like to have met. The dialogue must now be conducted with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. That is where the responsibility lies for issuing aids and ensuring that a tool is not distributed to someone who cannot accept it. I hope that the question was not also about when someone should have a door opener installed. So I have not experienced the question, but I understood that Lars Beckman mentioned it as an example. This is a very specific question, and we will try to deal with it. But I think it is best done together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions.
i-QRsVXwxvJYD3vTYkADvKuS	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action Isabella Lövin, Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-221	Mr President, I would like to Unemployment in Sweden is the highest in 23 years. The cause is spelled not only covid-19, although the Swedish economy has been seriously affected by the pandemic, which has contributed to the rise in unemployment. Even before the pandemic, Sweden was at the bottom of unemployment, despite the government's promise of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Unemployment is particularly high among foreign born people. A new report states that at least 600 000 immigrants of working age are currently not self-sufficient. The integration failure in Sweden is to say the least, and I therefore wonder, the Minister for Finance: what concrete measures is the Minister for Finance and the Government taking in addition to the training efforts to increase the number of foreign born people?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-223	Mr President, I would like to The government has taken a number of measures to increase the number of people born abroad to work and to increase access to the labour market. One of the first and most important measures we took was to abolish the custody allowance, which prevented many foreign-born women from even entering the labour market. We have also reprogrammed parental insurance in such a way that more foreign-born women will enter the labour market. It is important that many people seek out and participate in the labour market. In order for the government to also get into work, the record educational efforts that the government has made are important, but we have also expanded labour market policies. Extra services are an example of an area in which many women born abroad come into employment. We also have new start jobs, which have existed for a long time, which we know foreign born men can take part of. These are some examples of the measures we have taken. The large and extensive efforts we have made to increase the number of people employed in the public sector also benefit all, the entire Swedish people, either as employees or as users.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-226	Mr President, I would like to Continuing today's policy will not lead to improvement. We can see that we have 600 000 foreign born without self-sufficiency. On the contrary, the policy pursued risks leading to an inhumane situation for many people born abroad with a high risk of lifelong dependency and permanent exclusion in their new country. In M-municipalities, we can see that demands for compensation for obtaining subsidies and reduced taxes lead to reduced exclusion. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to follow these good examples?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-228	Mr President, I would like to Shall we follow the example of the Moderates? I can still remind you that now, in the midst of an ongoing pandemic and one of the biggest economic crises we have had since the 1930s, the employment rate is higher than when the Moderates were in government. Shall we then follow the example of the Moderates? Well, I think it's good that as many people as possible work, and then it's obvious that it's Stefan Löfven that we should follow.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-230	Mr President, I would like to In the last few weeks, we've had it a little colder. It has not been extremely cold in any way, but it has in any case been freezing all over the country. What has become particularly clear now that additional nuclear power is being shut down is how small margins there are when it comes to our self-sufficiency of electricity. Actually, it's not always windy. As a result, Sweden has been a net importer of electricity on several occasions in recent weeks – an importer of dirty fossil-produced electricity from Denmark and Poland, where power plants have increased production to meet the recent increase in demand.
i-XY48rGHFyKE32AhJuTXakd	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Martin Kinnunen, for the question! Sweden has always imported electricity from other countries for a few days or hours. It's still like that. Although we are now seeing one reactor after another being taken out of service because of its old age and the strict safety rules that exist for reactors in the EU, Sweden is a major net exporter of electricity to the continent and to our neighbours – even to our neighbouring country Finland, which is investing in the expansion of nuclear power, which is very expensive and is very delayed. In Sweden, however, we see a very large expansion of wind power, renewable electricity, which means that we have a record surplus of electricity that we export to our local area, which is good for the climate.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-235	Mr President, I would like to Last week a representative of the Nature Conservation Association tweeted out the following: Reduce your electricity consumption slightly. Right now, all of Sweden has very high electricity prices and imports dirty coal power from Poland. ..................................................... From being able to count on basically fossil-free electricity in Sweden, we now have to rely on dirty electricity from Poland and Denmark when it gets cold. This is an effect of government policy. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we would have preferred to have seen that the reactors in Ringhals could have been driven further than having to worry about climate emissions when you turn on the vacuum cleaner.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-238	Mr President, I would like to It is simply not true that Sweden has increased dependence on imports of coal power, but we export renewable electricity to our local area. The fact that we are now seeing the closure of nuclear power plants is that they are obsolete. There is no economy, as owners themselves have pointed out, in investing in new reactors. Then investment in renewable electricity is the future.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-239	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address the Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. My question concerns sport. We have a fantastic breadth and an impressive elite in our country. Everything from vasallopp and marathon to the children's and young omscup in the small association is important, not least for public health. With regard to the large exercise arrangements, the organizers had hoped for clear guidelines for outdoor activities in the Pandemic Act, but none came. Now there is still a reference to local and regional authorities, which in turn lack guidelines. Ideal associations need to make decisions shortly if they are to be able to conduct this year's event, which is crucial for the association's economy and survival.
i-E7b9ekew7Pfy7XCP32Khn2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Catarina Deremar, for the question! First of all, I would like to say that I fully agree with the description of the importance of our live and broad sports movement throughout Sweden and its entire ecosystem – everything from children's sport to elite activities, the wide range of sports and the diversity of activities that the Swedish sports movement represents at all ages. We have in various ways ensured that we support the sports movement during the pandemic, including financially, most recently with more than 300 million for the period up to February. The new Pandemic Act gives us opportunities for more accurate regulation. Now we're still in a serious state of infection. In order for the Pandemic Act to come into force with a new regulation as early as 10 January, we had to give priority to what needed to be incorporated into the law and regulated. But we have said that we will now be working on developing more regulations to enable more accurate solutions to be found in the future when the infection situation looks better, and we have a close dialogue with the sports movement on this.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-246	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I know that associations that arrange major events have produced protocols for how their events can be carried out coronasafely. But if the government does not have time to come up with accurate solutions, as the Minister says, I wonder: Will the Minister help to compensate the associations for the loss of income, which is significant for the coming years of activity?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-247	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we know that the sports movement has a very ambitious work to do on how this could be done. There is also a close dialogue with the Public Health Agency and, continuously, with the Ministry. We'll have to get back to you on that. But then I would like to say that we in the government, together with the budgetary cooperation parties, have indeed shown that we have been prepared to support the sports movement. We have responded to their wishes throughout 2020 and will continue to discuss, of course, the economic consequences, in 2021.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-249	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lena Hallengren. Since March 2020 we have been totally gassed by the pandemic, anxiety, disease and death. That's why the vaccine is the light in the tunnel for all of us. The vaccine is now rolling in from the EU. This has been decided in the EMA. At national level, there is a need for a greater information effort, a more offensive information effort, which meets the concerns surrounding the vaccine. Vaccin resistance is quite rampant in some places. Many people wonder about the approval of the vaccine, how it has been tested and so on – you name it. When will there be a major information effort for vaccination against covid-19? It's necessary.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-252	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the question. Yes, it is just as Karin Rågsjö describes it. Vaccines are indeed the light in the tunnel, although I would like to stress that the tunnel is quite long. In fact, we do not know what the effects will be and how quickly we can ease various measures, but of course it really feels like the light. There is, of course, already an information campaign aimed specifically at those affected, to those who now need to vaccinate. The Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, county boards and of course Swedish municipalities and Regions are working to produce information. I think it's important to remember that what people are asking is: When do I get to vaccinate, and how do I do that? We need to be a little closer to that time in order to answer that question. This is not known exactly yet. This is being built up. It is really by April, May and June that the vast majority of the population will be vaccinated. Then you have to be able to answer all those questions. One must also feel confident about which vaccines are approved and what the deliveries are.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-255	Mr President, I would like to Government! I think we need a more massive information effort. We can already see that there is a resistance to vaccination, for example in the care of the elderly. This must be addressed, as must the fake news on social media around the vaccine. Something that could motivate people to be vaccinated could be a vaccination passport, because I believe that more countries in Europe will demand it. Does the Government know anything about how vaccination passes are going?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-257	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of questions in one. Of course, the Civil Protection Authority is looking at the issue of misinformation. It's serious in itself. As far as vaccination certificates are concerned, this is something that the WHO, the EU and, of course, Sweden are looking at. We'll get back to you on that. It is of course particularly important to inform groups in vulnerable areas where there is a risk of a lower vaccination rate. But I would like to emphasise that you cannot just go out and say: now there are vaccines. I think people know that. What you want answers to is, of course, what vaccine do I get? When do I get it? How do I get it? Not all of these answers can be given to all groups in the Swedish population.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-260	Mr President, I would like to So far, we have vaccinated approximately 147 000 people in Sweden, and it has worked well throughout the country. Each vaccination is important, and we want as many people as possible to take the vaccine. The Danish Prime Minister has announced that Denmark is preparing to vaccinate 100,000 people a day when they have enough vaccines. In Sweden, the government has announced that everyone should be offered vaccines by the end of the half-year, provided that the vaccine comes to Sweden as planned. This means that, in the phase that can rightly be called mass vaccination, we need to vaccinate in the order of 140 000 people a day, everyday or weekend. Does the Minister of Social Affairs decide that we will make it, provided that the vaccine is delivered properly?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-264	Mr President, I would like to Any questions and concerns about why Sweden does not vaccinate faster – and so we compare with another EU country – are quite irrelevant, if I may use that expression. We get the same amount of vaccine, related to our population. At first– we have now been vaccinated for three weeks– saved some in the region dose two. You don't anymore. This is probably the reason why it looks a little different, including in Sweden and Denmark. I want to calm everyone down and say that it really is rolling in Sweden. We can look at some other EU countries that have huge problems getting the vaccine out. The question was really: How do we manage the second quarter, April through the summer? SKR made a very interesting calculation example – it can of course each do himself. If 12 1⁄2 million doses are to be divided into 12 weeks, it is approximately 1 million a week. An experienced nurse can vaccinate, at the bottom, 60 a day. Then you may need a little over 3,000 nurses to do this full time. The answer is: Yes, the assessment is that that capacity exists.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-267	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. Perhaps the interesting thing is not the first period. I also feel a calmness in the regions' ability to do so, and these are relatively safe things that we are doing now. The big problem is May and June, when we get the larger deliveries and when we are about to get through what will be a mass vaccination. Even if the regions have a responsibility under agreement, the government must make sure that we are able to do the vaccinations that we need to do. The goal is for it to be ready by the end of June. Can we make it?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-269	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, once again, for the question. I'm answering the same thing. It is clear that April to June is an effort. It is the municipalities and regions of Sweden that organise the vaccinations themselves. The state's responsibility is clear with the agreement we have with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. It is about paying for the vaccine, delivering it out and helping with information and all other support. But the actual injection into the arm of someone is responsible for the regions. Their overall view is that they can do this.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-271	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Lena Hallengren, but it concerns another subject. It is a problem that people are not granted personal assistance to the extent necessary or not at all. The Swedish Parliament has set the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities as a policy objective. Clear government governance is needed to ensure that all citizens are equal and have the same rights. The ongoing investigations into legislative changes do not cover this and are not sufficient.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-274	Mr President, I would like to The UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities is what is the steering oar, the handrail or what we stick to when it comes to disability policy in Sweden. Bengt Eliasson knows as well as I do. However, personal assistance is not a tool that many countries have. It is quite unique for Sweden, you might say. We must, of course, ensure that we protect both that legislation and the opportunities it offers. Then I am pleased that it is a good collaboration between not least Bengt Eliasson's party Liberals and the government that is about ensuring that in different ways strengthen the right to personal assistance. There's an investigation going on that looks at supervision and self-care. The aim is to reduce parental responsibility. We're going to look at the headmanship. We have dealt with the question of breathing and probe feeding, which should provide assistance in its entirety. Most of the measures have been taken.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-276	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, the investigations that are ongoing and made are important and good. However, a clear and fundamental issue for the individual's privacy concerns the minute hunt in the LSS needs assessment. It is humiliating to divide the time in the shower between private and not private or to divide a toilet visit into elements. Showering is private, going to the toilet is of course a whole. I think we agree on that. Would the Minister like to see the integrity-deserving minute hunt stopped by seeing the whole basic need as being close to privacy?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-278	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned a number of measures that we have agreed on and that we are working hard to both investigate and implement. In addition, resources have also increased when it comes to compensation for each hour of assistance. I am convinced that we have more to do and more to discuss. I'm not sure that the issue of minute hunting needs to be connected in the way Bengt Eliasson describes – I have of course noted it, but I think it's very important that, regardless of how we handle the issue of basic needs, we ensure that people with disabilities are treated with integrity and respect.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-281	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Lena Hallengren. It has recently been said in several media contexts, so also in the major Corona hearing in SVT last Sunday, that the Swedish Corona strategy last spring was to allow a certain limited spread of infection, i.e. not to do everything to prevent the spread of covid-19. Is this also the Minister's view of the government's and responsible authorities' Corona strategy during the spring?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-284	Mr President, I would like to Let me be very clear: there is no basis for that statement. I would say that it is quite wrong to say that Sweden would have had such a strategy. It is clear that the overall goal of the Swedish strategy has been and is to reduce the spread of infectious diseases as much as possible in the long term and in a sustainable way. The fact that we have not chosen to completely ban business or other activities from being open is based on the fact that we have not considered it to be fundamentally contributing or so effective. The right action needs to be taken at the right time in order to have the greatest possible impact; we have said that many times. The government has made, and will take, all the decisions that we consider necessary to protect people's lives, health and jobs. On this point, Sweden's strategy has not been so different from other countries', but there has not been that alexander chop that I think many might wish for. Of course, the measures taken by the government and the authorities to slow down the spread of infection must also be constantly balanced against all the effects they have on society as a whole. We are changing this as the situational picture changes as well.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-288	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the answer, Lena Hallengren! What the Government describes is extremely important, because many people claim that we have had a so-called flock immunity strategy in our country and that we have taken too lax measures. It is therefore extremely important that the approach we have is clearly defined from the responsible side. Therefore, my second question will be to Lena Hallengren how the government intends to clarify our strategy in the future.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-290	Mr President, I would like to I continue, together with my colleagues and the authorities, to describe tirelessly how we are working to take the right steps at the right time. That's changing. This may not mean that Sweden's strategy is changing, but that means that the situation is changing. When we all get tired, we may need to take new steps to endure. We also note that it is a virus that is incredibly unpredictable, and we need to take this into account when we do our utmost to reduce the spread of infection.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-292	Mr President, I would like to Last Friday, the Environmental Objectives Committee presented its report, and Isabella Lövin as the responsible minister received a very important bundle of proposals to secure life in the sea for generations to come. The Environmental Objectives Committee was tasked with proposing a strategy for strengthening action on the conservation and sustainable use of marine and marine resources. The strategy shall contribute to the achievement of relevant elements of the generational target and the relevant environmental quality objectives and thus also contribute to the implementation of Agenda 2030 objective 14 on the sustainable conservation and exploitation of the seas and marine resources. I would therefore like to ask Isabella Lövin: do the proposals in the report contain what is needed to achieve this objective? If not, what else is needed?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for the question and for highlighting the very important work that the Environmental Target Committee and all parties in the Riksdag have done to develop a comprehensive strategy for how to save our seas. The oceans, as everyone knows, face a huge challenge. The problems are growing: acidification, plastic litter, overfishing, dead bottoms, invasion of alien species and climate change, which means that the oceans are under enormous stress. Progress has gone the wrong way. The environmental target committee therefore proposes that we present a marine environmental law that allows us to take a comprehensive approach to the seas. Each term of office shall provide a government with sufficient measures to save the seas. I think this is a very good way forward.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-298	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for that answer! It is, of course, also a unanimous preparation that has done and, as the Minister says, has presented a very basic and good piece of work. Political change is never as simple as it might seem anyway, so I wonder if Isabella Lövin in addition to or perhaps also including the political dimension sees some major difficulties in implementing these important proposals.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-300	Mr President, I would like to If there's a will, there's a way, you say. Unfortunately, we can see that science and knowledge are not always sufficient to have a sufficiently strong political will to address climate change or the terrible problems that we see with our seas. I still see that it is very positive that all parties in Parliament have supported 1,600 pages from the Environmental Objectives Committee with over 100 proposals to save our seas. I hope we can go forward with them.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-302	Mr President, I would like to With the vaccine we are now hopefully beginning to finally see the light in the tunnel. As has been mentioned, the pandemic has deprived and cost so much for so many in terms of both life and health and in terms of life's work and jobs. One of the nutrients that has been particularly vulnerable and affected is culture, which has lived with unclear, slow and hateful news for a year. One example is the theatre and entertainment industry, for which it has been a complete impossibility to plan the business. Many have been without income for a long time, and an entire ecosystem of cultural creators and entrepreneurs is being torn apart. The government has announced that it is now investigating the re-launch of culture. However, that investigation should not be completed until last June, and there can be no hopelessness until then. The cultural sector now needs answers for longer-term planning conditions, and my question to the Minister for Culture is therefore: is there, in the foreseeable future, any proper information about a plan for the re-launch of the cultural industry, a industry that is in such need of faith in the future?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-305	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Viktor Wärnick, for the question! In part, the answer will be the same as the previous questioner on the exercise course. Now we have a pandemic team in place. It provides significantly better opportunities for us to issue more accurate rules in terms of being able to carry out activities in an infectious manner without keeping completely closed. Now we are still in a serious situation, but we are working on drawing up further regulations. We have also given a mission to the Swedish Public Health Agency, which will come back to us with a proposal on how to plan based on scenarios based on the level of spread of infection in society. Of course, the vaccine gives hope, and of course we have a fresh start ahead of us. The government has budgeted 1 billion in so-called re-launch funds for culture for this year. We are working to get them out as quickly as possible, because the cultural sector is still in crisis. I see the need for us to take responsibility both in the short and long term in order for culture to gradually recover. There, the investigation into the re-launch of culture is an important piece of the puzzle.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-309	Mr President, I would like to The state of health care is extremely serious. At the same time, the spread of infection in Sweden continues to be extensive, and there is a risk that the spread of infection will take off again and that we will therefore enter a third wave. The Coronapandemy requires enormous resources, and that in turn means that planned care must be cancelled because the care does not have the capacity to face this. The health debt continues to grow, and the cancellation of care takes place at the expense of human health and suffering. We must also prepare for the situation to get worse in the future. For this reason, I would like to ask Minister Lena Hallengren about the readiness of the government for a third wave of contamination, when we are already in a serious situation where the capacity of care is not sufficient and the health debt continues to increase at the same time.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-312	Mr President, I would like to These were good questions, which many of course think about. If you work in health care, it is self-evident, but I think we are all involved in and concerned about how the care should work. It's not about cancelling all the planned treatment. We must take every opportunity to tell those who listen that you should apply if you need care. It is not the case that all care is cancelled, but it is clear that there are consequences when you are in the greatest crisis in modern times, which is also so linked to health care. Of course, we need to prepare for a third and a fourth wave, and we need to prepare for new outbreaks. The decline we now see will rise again. We need to prepare for many different parts. If there is something we should take into account, it is of course to ensure that we can keep the spread of infection so that it continues to go down so that the health care staff can both recover and start dealing with delayed care.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-316	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Time is important for all of us, but of course especially for hard-pressed entrepreneurs. Not least in the restaurant industry, they have clearly learned what the pandemic means in terms of the conditions for their operations. Many go out and turn on pots and think that they need support; they are on the verge of having to close down. One problem has been that they do not get the money paid out. Does the Minister of Finance see that new aid is being provided which takes account of the fact that there is no more in the barns? There is nothing in the individual entrepreneur's pocket. They have to get the money paid out faster.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-319	Mr President, I would like to Large parts of the business community have been affected by the pandemic, as well as society as a whole. I am thinking not least of those who have lost a loved one or a close friend and of the health workers who are struggling. This also applies to the business community, not least the cultural and event industries, as well as the hotel and restaurant industries. They're having a really tough time. During the year, many have also struggled to change their business and worked entrepreneurially, skilfully and innovatively to change their business – as the Swedish business community is at its very best. We have supported, and there will also be new support. It will now be possible to lay down short-term leave of 80%, and it will receive 90% of its fixed costs in compensation. However, since we need to keep track of the money, it may take some time, and we also need to get it right from Europe. Therefore, tax deferrals will now come within a few weeks. Three months' tax can be credited to your account. I say to the business community: hold on and hold on! The money's on its way.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-323	Mr President, I would like to Recently, Swedish forestry has been recognised in the media in Sweden and abroad. It's not a beautiful picture that's painted. What we're seeing is the giant scallop. Large fellings affect the climate, biodiversity, reindeer husbandry and natural tourism, and they also destroy social values. Soon our productive forest has been replaced by tree plantings. State Sveaskog is not without a part of this. As the largest owner of forest, as well as a state-owned company, Sveaskog has the responsibility to take the lead and be a role model. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Climate Change the following. Will the government ensure that Sveaskog gets an updated and clear directive to work to ensure that Sweden achieves environmental objectives and protects the forest, while at the same time putting sustainability ahead of returns as its main goal?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-327	Mr President, I would like to I thank Elin Segerlind for the question. Our forests are an important resource to enable the sustainable use of biomass and the materials that can be extracted from the forest. This also applies to the protection of biodiversity and to ensuring that there are resilient, resilient ecosystems capable of coping with a warmer climate with new types of diseases or forest fires. There is a balance for the Swedish forest. The January parties were, and are, agreed in the January agreement that Sveaskog, the state forest company, should be a forerunner in sustainable forestry. It's in the company's mission, and that's what the company should be working on.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-330	Mr President, I would like to As I have just asked the Minister for the Environment a question about the witch hunt on small hydroelectric power, I would like to follow up on this issue. Now government officials, often with their own agendas as it seems, are using the opportunity to drive the removal of dams under the old legislation – but as a re-examination. It shows that it does not respect decisions that have been democratically taken. This action is particularly remarkable because some county boards are rushing to issue injunctions before the new law comes into force with the obvious aim of being able to act contrary to the new law. According to the Minister's answer to my question, we should make use of all the possibilities for exceptions, but this is not being done. Why is the government, the Minister for Climate and the Environment, not acting to ensure that decisions taken democratically have an impact on our state authorities?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-333	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Ottosson for the question. The decisions that have been taken in democratic order and on which we agree are to be implemented. Those missions are for our authorities. There we need to be aware that there is an independent responsibility on the part of the authorities, and there are also mechanisms for monitoring in different ways in society. It's also done. When it comes to small-scale hydropower, it has been a long-term effort to come up with a plan for how we will implement the EU water directive in Sweden. It is true for all EU countries that we should have good environmental status for our waters. That is the work that has finally been started.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-336	Mr President, I would like to Corona aid amounts to more than 250 billion. Many companies have benefited from the support of taxpayers during the pandemic. All the parties in Parliament have been, and are, concerned that the money can be paid out quickly, but it is also important that the aid is not misused and falls into the hands of criminals. This is why the government has appointed an investigator, Stefan Strömberg, who before Christmas reported on his mission. Stefan Strömberg had many important reflections. Among other things, he highlighted how the Swedish Tax Agency, together with the Ministry of Finance, worked closely together before the support was designed so that the Swedish Tax Agency could quickly digitise and streamline payments. My question to the Minister for Finance is, of course, as follows. What conclusions and questions to take forward will the Minister see in the report to the Government from the investigator Strömberg?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-340	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The government has taken historic steps to save Swedish jobs and companies through the crisis. Let me take short-term lay-off as an example. Hundreds of thousands of people would otherwise be at risk of worrying about unemployment. Instead, they have been given short-term leave. When such large amounts are transferred to companies there is of course also a risk of cheating, but the vast majority of Swedish companies are doing right and right. They pay taxes and fees and don't cheat. But we know that there are criminals, and we know that there is organised crime. Therefore, we must take steps to ensure that the money for companies in need will end up with them and not with the criminal gangs. We will take several suggestions further. These include auditor's certificates, which are a way of ensuring that the money ends up in the right place.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-345	Mr President, I would like to Coronan has hit the world and Sweden hard. Some industries have had to take more beatings than others; we know that. The cultural sector is such an industry that has had to pay an extremely high price for a long time. As the conditions for operating rapidly change, it is perceived – and communication thereafter – as inconsistent and jerky, which has contributed to great uncertainty and frustration in the industry. The subject of public opinion is one example. The lack of active dialogue in the early stages of the pandemic is another. People's behaviour and consumption of culture has changed during this period and will affect the sector even when the pandemic is over. That is why we must already plan how we not only support but also ensure that the sector starts to tear down as quickly as circumstances allow. There is a need for clearer information from the government. I, like the whole cultural sector, wonder: How does the Minister of Culture ensure that cultural institutions are among the very first to be open to the public when the pandemic so permits?
i-xSvnnTyxXVab44Qiodrmq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Ahlström Ahlström, for the question and also for the commitment! I have already answered questions relating to the Pandemic Act and the opportunities it offers. We have also given the assignment to Linda Zachrison as a special investigator to delve deep into the revival and long-term recovery of culture. It is clear that we should continue to do everything we can and continue to investigate whether further support is needed, of course based on the pandemic situation and restrictions. I am pleased that before Christmas we were able to present another 500 million in support of culture. These will be important resources. But we also need to work for the re-launch and continue working with the guidelines and regulations and with the dialogue we have within the audience council but also all the special dialogue that we have. In addition to 1 billion to restart, the government has also provided funds for the cultural cooperation model and various parts of Swedish cultural life. Here it is important that we help ourselves, municipalities and regions and states, for the recovery of culture in the short and long term.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-352	Mr President, I would like to Eight out of ten children today do not reach the recommended amount of physical activity per day. That's what Generation Pep reports. Even before the pandemic, we could see that the sedentary posture of children is increasing. The Coronapandemia has made things even worse. Today, reliefs were presented for children born in 2005 or later, who will be able to participate in sports events and training sessions. However, more measures are needed, especially for young people over the age of 16.
i-SAQ232WiWocVGJBfscNVkw	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for the question! First of all, it is absolutely crucial that we ensure that our broad sports movement across the country is given the opportunity to get through the pandemic. State support for sport is important. It is also important with all the efforts that the municipalities make to support their local association life so that we do not get breaks in the fine mesh that is our sports movement. We will also plan for the reboot. I received an analysis the other day from the Swedish Sports Federation, which we agreed jointly that they would produce. They have looked at the urgent needs but also at what is needed to get back on track and to reach all those children and young people who are at risk of slipping outside or have slipped away from organised sport. In addition, the government and Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren have set up a committee to promote increased physical activity, which has now started working. It will have an extremely important role in the dialogue with the sports movement on what is needed in the future. We have added extra support to the movement in school. We have also invested extra money in enabling the Swedish Sports Federation to continue its important work in reaching all children.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-361	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to address a question, while there is time, to Minister Lövin regarding green infrastructure. For a number of years, the County Administrative Boards have been tasked with drawing up action plans for green infrastructure. These action plans are now beginning to take shape. They look different across the country; I have immersed myself in the action plan for my home country, Östergötland. It is relatively unclear in the Action Plan what is to be achieved, who is to achieve it and how. Looking at the map material, which in itself is only half finished, you can see that it covers an absolute majority of the county surface. I have also noted that in my own farm and in my home country there are pure errors in the map material. These are value regions for deciduous trees located on pine land. It is the value of grassland located in the lake. My question to the Government is how the government sees this. What are the action plans to be used for, and can they be used when they have these pure inaccuracies? On behalf of the Center Party, we have questioned whether this mission should continue, but I would like to hear how the government sees it.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-366	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Magnus Ek and I share the reality statement that we have both a climate crisis and a crisis for biodiversity in the world, where we see that 11 million species are threatened with extinction if we do not act. Here it is very much about ensuring that there are habitats even for the most modest and perhaps uncharismatic species in our ecosystems that we do not think about in everyday life – not the big predators but the insects, the little herbs, all the little cogs of the larger machinery that is our living world. Here the green infrastructure is extremely important. It is important that we see that roadsides, agricultural and urban parks are also parts of keeping ecosystems alive. But, of course, we need to evaluate the mission we have given to see that it really meets the objectives.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-370	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister Hallengren. Almost three years have passed since the news came of the irregular adoptions from Chile in the 70s and 80s. The Swedish government has not yet done anything to find out how these adoptions have been handled here in Sweden. In Chile, a parliamentary inquiry has been carried out, which has established that many adoptions have not been carried out. A police investigation has also been initiated. Those who believe they have been subjected to crimes must submit their actions to the Chilean police. It is the actions of the non-profit adoption associations that carried out the adoptions to this day – not entirely trusting many of the adopted ones. In several cases, persons have testified that documents have disappeared or are missing altogether. It also handles important original documents that can be used to make Chilean passports.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jon Thorbjörnson, for the question! I do not remember how many weeks it was since we had the corresponding discussion. I will tell Jon that not much new has happened since the question was asked last time, but I would like to emphasise that it is clear that Sweden is involved in this. It would be weird if I didn't. Sweden is not the only country that is affected, but we are among the countries that are and also want to help sort out this situation and clarify what may have happened – both to ensure that it should not be done like this and of course also to provide support to individuals who need support in the search for their origins but also when they are going to participate in this type of process. The Agency for Family Law and Parental Support is the authority that has a special mission to assist when it comes to support for seeking origin. But it is also those who answer questions and who participate and assist with the kind of tasks that might be needed in Chile in order to continue this process, which is so important.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-377	Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has hit our entire society hard, and everyone wants to contribute and make the best of an extreme situation. This is also what Sweden's entrepreneurs want. The problem that we Christian Democrats see is that the support that has been decided on and that is needed for companies to have a chance of survival does not always reach the end. Waiting and uncertainty are too long for some people. It is very confusing to learn from the morning news on the same day about restrictions imposed and extended for the industry in which you operate, and it puts entrepreneurs in a situation where they will violate labour law. My question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is why the government has repeatedly not communicated either restrictions in time or what financial compensation benefits these companies.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-381	Mr President, I would like to That is an important question that is being asked. It is always about doing nothing more than what is necessary but absolutely doing what is necessary. We are constantly trying to adjust the measures to the current state of infection. We do not want to impose restrictions on companies if we do not believe that the contamination situation is such that it is necessary, because this actually makes it difficult for companies to get through the crisis. But when we see that the contamination situation makes something necessary, the government must of course strike, because it is about people's lives and health. When we have come up with severe restrictions, we have also come up with additional support. In the case of, for example, the clock-eight restriction that came, we had even been able to tell about some support before the restriction struck, so that the entrepreneurs knew about it when the restriction came. Many subsidies are also designed to provide more support automatically if additional restrictions are imposed.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-383	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Tax evasion and cheating by public funds upset us all. I believe that three things are important in order to curb this: collective agreements, increased exchange of information between authorities and the principle of public access to information also apply to private companies whose main source of income is tax revenue. I would like to ask how the Minister for Finance wants to strengthen these three important tools against welfare crime.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-384	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for this important issue. I share the honourable Member's view that collective agreements are an important part of combating rogue employers in many different ways, including those who use their company to engage, for example, in crime. The government has been determined to reduce fraud and tax evasion. It is both a question of people paying the tax they owe and of not cheating with our welfare systems. We have taken many steps. For example, we have tightened the penalty for benefit crimes and reintroduced the civil record crime. We have also increased the opportunities for information exchange between and within authorities, and we have provided additional resources to the authorities. So here is an agenda that we have been working on and that we continue to work on. It is important that everyone pays taxes as they should and that the money goes where they are going.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-388	Mr President, I would like to Efforts to reduce the spread of infection and thus save lives are central to the fight against pandemics. The fact that vaccines are now starting to come into place is therefore very gratifying. It is therefore untenable that this issue should be dealt with by Sweden's 21 regions and 290 municipalities separately, without any government guidance whatsoever. I can compare with what the Minister said in a previous reply. In my home country, our nurses vaccinate 30 patients an hour. We streamline and remove everything else we can to get the vaccine out as soon as possible. The government must now urgently implement comprehensive national information efforts to induce more people to vaccinate themselves in accordance with the agreement reached with SKR. The government must also ensure that national guidelines are developed on the need to vaccinate personnel working with risk groups in health and social care.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-391	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of questions I'm going to try to answer in one minute. First of all, I would like to contradict Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm completely when she says that there is no guidance whatsoever. I do not share the distrust of Sweden's 21 regions that I think I belong between the lines – quite the opposite. We have an agreement; it is clear who is doing what. The state has not only a responsibility to write contracts, pay for vaccines and deliver them, but also, through the Public Health Authority, a responsibility to have a priority order and a continuous dialogue, not least when it comes to the information mission and how to reach out. But the municipalities and regions of Sweden also coordinate the work to ensure that vaccinations continue. I hear that the Socialistly-led Region of Västerbotten seems to be a very good example in this context.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-394	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The debate on freedom of expression has, in recent weeks, taken a new impetus after global giant companies have taken the liberty of arbitrarily and inconsistently shutting free media and elected politicians away from online communication via social media, which is in practice the power of opinion of our time. Amanda Lind has therefore participated in several debates in the Riksdag. I was going to quote her from one of those debates last Friday.What attracts advertisers, and what generates clicks and commitment? This in itself is a problem, I mean, also for our democracy. It runs the risk of driving extremism and polarisation, and it does not in itself have the character of a free power of opinion in which all votes are valued equally. ..................................................... Does the Minister think that it is a problem for citizens to click on and engage in the wrong things in social media? And if the Minister thinks that the underlying algorithms that exist are a problem, will she act to make demands for transparency about them? I also wonder whether the Minister is prepared to act to put an end to the online giants being able to automatically, with algorithms and without human decisions, turn people off so that their freedom of expression is hindered.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-397	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the first question is, in short, no. On the other hand, it is reasonable, I believe, to question the Swedish democrats' description of the global giants as some form of neutral power of opinion. They're not. The algorithms that control what is exposed in social media are controlled by, among other things, commercial considerations from large commercial companies. That was the reasoning I had. Then, of course, people can click on what they want. I think this is an important discussion to have. I think that we should realise that there are challenges when large companies, as it is, have a large and dominant role in terms of the online discussion. Digitalisation presents great opportunities, but also challenges. It is therefore a good thing that the European Commission has now put forward proposals that we can discuss at European level, which are both about ensuring that illegal material is removed and about developing transparency. Of course none of us are valiant of arbitrariness.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-401	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. We live, as everyone knows, in the midst of climate change. It's incredibly serious and threatening. One area where action would be needed is the production of fossil-free energy, particularly wind power, which plays a major role. Unfortunately, the expansion of offshore wind power is going a little slow, for example because the Swedish Armed Forces' national interests take precedence and some projects are thereby stopped. I wonder how the government is planning to combine the defence's interest in being able to practice and its activities with an increased expansion of offshore wind power. These are different interests that need to be reconciled so that we can move forward in the work on these important issues.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-403	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for the question! We are really facing a huge task of turning the whole world into fossil freedom. Our energy systems will very much be based on renewable energy. Here the ocean-based wind has the greatest potential to bring power to our networks. A mission presented by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has identified the most appropriate areas and the potential for development in these areas. This is a work that we are taking forward. The defence interests in this are of course important, and the defence also has a special position when it comes to environmental testing permits. But, of course, we are working further to ensure sustainable development.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-406	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin. As she is on her last days as a spokesperson and Minister, I would like to start by thanking her very much for her work and cooperation. Isabella Lövin's efforts have made a difference. Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to Now I come to my question. In order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and strengthen Swedish competitiveness, Swedish industry is changing. By electrifying more, we create high-tech jobs, green transition and sustainable development. One example is the Northvolt battery factory. What initiatives in government budgets would Isabella Lövin want to highlight as important in this transition?
i-Lf3XC9xpBKu9eRrqFs6gz7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Markus Selin, for the question and for the kind words! In the budget proposal for 2021, I would like to highlight the expansion of the industrial life. In addition to providing opportunities for those activities that need to make technological leaps to move away from fossil-dependent and process-related emissions, we are making a broader effort to reduce emissions, where, for example, sustainable battery production, hydrogen production, plastic recycling refineries and the circular economy are those that could be supported by pilot plants. I think that is extremely important in this transition. We also give money to modernise test beds for biorefineries in Sweden, so that we can really go at the forefront when it comes to innovations in that area. I am very much in favour of that.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-411	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is the EU's leading mining and mineral nation. At least it's been sounding that way for a long time. That has been a clear political objective. Now, however, we see signs that Sweden is lagging behind in the measurements. The Canadian think tank Fraser Institute now ranks both Ireland and Finland higher than Sweden. There is no reason to understate that mines affect the local environment, but one can also note that minerals are needed for the climate change. You have to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Metals such as iron, copper, silver, cobalt and others are all needed to produce modern technologies that drive the climate transition.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-414	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Antoni, for an important question! It is indeed the case that we will need minerals. There is an increased demand for rare earth metals in particular for electrification of society. There we will need them for batteries, for electric cars and also for the storage of energy in a renewable energy system. It is exciting to see the development in which LKAB, among others, has identified that in the existing slag heaps, which have so far been considered waste from the mining industry, there are considerable amounts of rare earth metals that will be able to meet quite significant needs within the EU. These needs will be met by using only the slag resources. Here we will move forward with an action plan for the circular economy, where one should look specifically at how to reuse substances from slag and mining waste but also from scrap and electronics, where far too little is being reused today.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-418	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, is a so-called preparedness authority. A preparedness authority refers to an authority whose activities have a significant impact on the overall defence. MSB will help the public sector, private companies, associations and the public with information in the event of a crisis. In other words, that is where people turn to in the event of a disaster. A recent study from Demoscope shows that less than a third of the people have confidence in the agency. The reasons for this are, of course, several, but the general picture is that the Authority has so far not been able to handle crisis events very well, whether the forest fires or the coronapandemine. Having a Director-General who has gone to Las Palmas no less than three times in the autumn has not made things any better. The fact that the people do not trust the authority to which they should turn in the event of a disaster is very worrying. Does the Minister have a plan for how to regain the trust of the public authority?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-422	Mr President, I would like to Generally speaking, trust in authorities in Sweden is high. That, of course, is something we should guard against. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency is also an authority that has exceptionally difficult tasks because it is they who are going to step in in the event of a crisis. It is incredibly important information that can be obtained from that authority and also from many other authorities. It is precisely in the pandemic crisis that we are experiencing today that much information is available from the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency. There is also very important information on the Swedish Public Health Agency's website, on 1177 and on regional and municipal pages. So there are a lot of authorities that the public can turn to to get the necessary information through the crisis.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-425	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Last week I was contacted by several restaurant owners on Idre mountains and in Mora. The restaurants in Dalarna and the rest of Sweden are on their knees. Guests who visit them wish to sit a little longer than 20 o'clock in the safe environments that the restaurateurs allow. For last weekend, they had set great hopes of being open longer than 8 p.m., but instead the decision was extended until 24 January, and today it was extended to 7 February. It is at short notice that these decisions are made for restaurant owners, who have staff planning to take into account, and also the trade unions.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-429	Mr President, I would like to I do not need to publicise anyone in this House or anyone who is listening that we are in the midst of a pandemic and that we need to take action not only once but perhaps extend them and adjust them. That's what we do at this point. I think that was the issue of taking action. The Minister of Finance has, in the past, explained what aid is available, not specifically for the restaurant industry alone, but it is this industry that basically tops the various subsidies that are still being allocated. Let me say something about this in advance. The government has today held a press conference and has made it clear that we expect to be able to make overall assessments of the situation every two weeks in order to know whether we need to adjust or change something or take new measures. This is what can be expected when we are in the greatest crisis in modern times. It is not just the restaurant industry that wants to see ahead, but many industries and actors would like to see it, but the pandemic does not always offer it.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-432	Mr President, I would like to The Pandemic Act provides the government with far-reaching possibilities to restrict the freedom of trade by closing down restaurants, malls and shopping malls. As a result, the government has announced a so-called shutdown aid, which will compensate companies fully for fixed costs in the event of closure. It is a welcome message, but the question is whether the aid will cover personnel costs, which are normally the largest budget line in a company's activities. It is of course possible to lay off staff instead, but it is a bit strange to do so if the workplace is closed. If you are forbidden to go to work, which customers are you going to cut or which guests are you going to serve the rest of the time? And when is the support coming? These are legitimate questions that companies are now asking. Will the closure aid cover staff costs? That is my question to the Minister for Finance.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-434	Mr President, I would like to Of course, if we implement a more extensive shutdown, there should also be specific support for it. Since before, we have the very large amounts of aid, including the possibility of short-term lay-off of 80%. This also applies, of course, to companies that are shut down. In addition, they have the opportunity to get 90 percent of their fixed costs covered. The discussions we are having with the European Commission on the new closure aid are not finished. However, we will come forward with the proposal to be able to receive 100% support. We will see if we reach all the way through the European Commission, so we will have to come back to that. But that is the government's ambition. We will come back to exactly how the aid will be designed after the discussion with the Commission. But as I have said throughout this period: we are always open to discussing whether to adjust or change any measures. I am, of course, prepared to discuss it with other parties.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-438	Mr President, I would like to The January agreement between the Government, the Center and the Liberals states that a job is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and establishment in society. Reducing gaps and increasing employment will enable all people, regardless of their background, to succeed in life. Workline applies.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-440	Mr President, I would like to Working is an important prerequisite for the individual's livelihood and the ability to make independent decisions on how to live his or her life. It is of course also important for society to function and for us to get tax revenue so that we can have the welfare we have in Sweden. I have a good news for Boriana Åberg, and that is that the employment rate in this crisis is also high. The proportion of the population employed is actually higher now than when the Moderates ruled Sweden and handed over to Stefan Löfven. Of course, we continue to work to ensure that even more people get to work and that people can quickly return to employment after the crisis. It is about making people employable, and then education is one of the most important things. It is also important to be on the labour market, and here the government has taken many steps to increase the number of women born abroad to enter the labour market.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-443	Mr President, I would like to The Government has decided to extend the support for short-term work, or short-term lay-off, as the Minister of Finance calls it, during the first half of 2021. That's good. However, the Act is not scheduled to enter into force until 15 February. The Swedish Agency for Growth, which handles companies' applications for support for short-term work, has announced that they will not offer the opportunity to submit applications until the Riksdag has decided on the new law. In addition, it is estimated that applications can only be received five to eight weeks later. It is likely that the payments of aid granted will take a few more weeks, which will put even more strain on the liquidity of already under pressure companies. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson: Could not the decision on continued support for short-term work be dealt with more quickly? Since you can probably expect an influx of applications, why was it not given the task of the Swedish Agency for Growth to receive preliminary applications before the parliamentary decision and thus be able to prepare the examination of these applications?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-446	Mr President, I would like to The long processing times at the Swedish Agency for Growth are a major problem. This is a completely new support that has not existed before, and it is a very large task for the Swedish Agency for Growth. The government has tried to help and support in various ways. The Swedish Agency for Growth has been able to borrow personnel from other authorities, also from the Government Office. In addition, we have provided large resources for you to be able to hire new staff. It is, as I said, aid that has not existed before, and it is very large amounts to be paid out. Therefore, the applications received earlier are still being processed. The government is aware of this problem, and this is one of the reasons why the number of months that can be deferred has doubled. This means that at the beginning of February companies can get back three months' paid tax on their tax account. In this way, companies will be able to cope with the liquidity until the short-term lay-off aid is paid.
i-677a29e30f9a9412-451	Mr President, I would like to My family doctor Dr. Pema informed me yesterday with mixed concerns and irritation in my voice about the vaccination situation. They have good opportunities to drive for the fullest. The premises are in order, and the staff are there. What unfortunately does not exist is vaccine. They were assigned 6 doses per 1,000 patients listed this week, and 5 doses per 1,000 patients next week. Mathematics says we're allowed to vaccinate for 200 weeks before we're in port. That's not good enough. For example, it is not possible to tell anyone who wants to try to get pregnant that she should wait until after the vaccination, but, just that, it may take four years. With the question to Minister Hallengren in view of this is: When will the great charge that will allow Dr. Pema and his team together with everyone else to vaccinate can do so fully, and we can see the light in the tunnel?
i-677a29e30f9a9412-454	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we are ending Question Time with a clarification which I must say I am a little surprised that I need to do in this House. We use all the vaccines that come to Sweden. I do not know which region Ann-Ann-Sofie Lifvenhage lives in, but each region has a plan for how to work and get the vaccine. First out are those who live in special accommodations, the staff there, those who have home help and those who live with someone who has home help. Then there are healthcare professionals, others at risk and people with LSS. From April until summer, the rest of the population, which is therefore under 70 and not at risk, will be able to vaccinate. We get more and more vaccines, and as soon as the vaccine comes to Sweden we use it. We get our share of just other EU countries, and from the beginning of April we can have as much as half a million doses a week.
