i-0250cf3b633173e2-6	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country for everyone; it is fundamental for our society to stay together. Society should be strong enough to protect people from anything from everyday crime to serious organised crime. Increasing social security is one of the government's and Social Democrats' most important priorities. This requires hard, patient and determined work over a long period of time and in a wide range of areas of society, both with law enforcement and with efforts to prevent people from getting involved in crime. The single most important initiative to increase security in Sweden is more police officers in streets and squares and more police employees who can clear up crimes. That's why we set the target of 10,000 more police employees. More policemen in our streets and squares increase security for all of us. Since the beginning of police growth in 2016, the number of police employees has increased by over 5,000. There have never been so many employed police officers. At present, the agency has grown by 21% since 31 December 2015, and it is now over 34,000 police workers, which is the largest number ever. The development is very pleasing, but it must not be taken for granted. The fact that we are now seeing more police officers is the result of political priorities, where our efforts at the Police Authority and police training produce results. Many more police officers are now also being trained. I hope that the members of the committee took this opportunity to welcome the fact that two weeks ago we got another police aspirant out. 401 new trainees completed their final part of police training, which means that a total of 766 trainees completed the trainee training in the next six months and graduated as new trained police officers in November. This is also to be welcomed by the fact that 71 people have now started the functional police training for civil servants in the agency, which is now starting and that more than 2,800 students are in the various police training courses. I can only agree with what the chief of police said when they informed and went out with this: the work of becoming even more police officers is continuing unabated. Our basic security must go first, and more policemen are A and O in the construction of a stronger society. Madam President, I would like Gang crime is a serious social problem that must be combated from all sides of society, and men's violence against women as well. With some sixty more stringent laws, more resources and a stronger and more efficient legal chain, we simply move forward the positions. The action programme against gang violence in Sweden is now in the middle of implementation. It is about both increased penalties and new powerful tools for law enforcement authorities, but also about social efforts that stop recruitment to the gangs in the long term. Yesterday, the Government presented another broad action programme on men's violence against women that reinforces the work based on the ten-year national strategy that we already have in this area. It is a 40-point action programme that contains punitive measures, measures to prevent violence, protection of victims of violence and much more. These two action programmes really bring together the broad political power to face two of the major societal challenges that we in our committee have to work on. There are two powerful packages that put the questions in their broad context. Here a growing police authority is incredibly important, and many times crucial, along with a strong judicial system. Madam President, I would like The report we are debating here today includes the motions on police matters that have been written during the general period of exercise. We reject most of them – sometimes because we don't think they're good enough. However, many times we do so because we do not believe that the policy should be in and govern precisely how the authority should organise its work. With the major police reform, we have said that it should be a common authority and set the framework for the agency's work. I do not think that the authority will be better because we here in Parliament every year, based on motions, decide whether to have one unit or the other and how to work or prioritise. Other motions are rejected because work in the direction proposed by the exerciser is already underway within the Government Office or because the Riksdag has already made announcements on the matter. There are two issues I would like to touch on briefly. The first one's about emergency police. The emergency police were decommissioned just over eight years ago, having been used to a very limited extent. Even in view of the change in the security policy situation, we believe that a balance between needs, utilisation rates and costs results in insufficient reasons to reintroduce the emergency services. The issue of a reinforcement resource to the police has been highlighted by the Defence Committee and can be expected to be the subject of further consideration. In this context, it should be examined, inter alia, whether such a strengthening resource can be built on a duty for, for example, newly retired police officers or those who have moved to a different career. We do not want to anticipate such a review at this stage. The second issue concerns the handling of trace securing kits in sex crime investigations. The committee takes seriously the information that has come to light in the media about shortcomings in the police's handling of trace securing kits in sexual crime investigations. In our opinion, victims who are being investigated for the purpose of tracking and tracing – with all that it means for personal integrity – must be met with the greatest respect. We therefore consider as a united committee that the government should take steps to ensure that the National Guidelines for Tracking Rates of the Polisic Authority are respected throughout the country in these investigations. Step by step, with determination and perseverance, we will push back crime and make Sweden safer. I request the approval of reservation 9.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-25	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are the Swedish police party. We're on the side of the police. We spend 1.1 billion more on the budget than the government spends on the police. We listen to the police's wish list both in terms of more resources and in terms of better tools. At the same time, it is worth noting that the government spends twice as much money on aid as they spend on the Police Authority. Many police officers and prosecutors around Sweden are currently doing a horse job to reverse the negative development of serious organised crime that we see. Politics must be on their side. For the Moderates, this is a matter of course. I would therefore like to express my thanks to all the police, but also to prosecutors who are doing an amazing job. It can surely be felt that one's own contribution is small and that one sometimes struggles in the headwind. But then let me say that every piece of the puzzle, every single intervention, arrest and arrest that takes place is incredibly important for us to together make Sweden safe again. Thank you so much! The Moderates trust the police. But we don't trust the government. We have a situation that is very serious about shootings, blasts and sexual crimes. The gross violence is on the increase. In many parts of Sweden there is no control, and the Swedish rule of law has been replaced in parts by rules of clans or gang criminals. At the same time, we have a government that does not do what is necessary to reverse developments. And our committee, the Committee on Justice, shows just that. This morning, in the Committee on Justice, we saw that about 100 announcements have been sent from us in Parliament to the government. This, if anything, is a rejection of the government's criminal policy. The report we are debating here today contains two announcements. One is about the emergency police which we Moderates, together with a majority, would like to reintroduce, because the reality is now different from eight years ago. The increase in gang crime, the increase in violence and the changing state of security policy mean that we need to look at different types of measures, where the reintroduction of the emergency services could be one. The second announcement is about tracking in sexual crime investigations. We know that sexual crimes are increasing and have done so since Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister. It is extremely worrying and something that we must be prepared to use all the tools to reduce. When it comes to the police, we see that the police density in Sweden is really bad. Sweden has about the same number of police officers now as in 2010. The only difference is that in 2010 we had 1 million fewer people living in this country. This means that we have fewer police officers now per capita than we had ten years ago. This also shows the international outlook, namely that we have the third worst police density in Europe. Only Denmark and Finland are worse than Sweden. Unfortunately, this is usually the case nowadays in measurements that come when we compare ourselves with other European countries, in other words that we are actually the worst in the class whatever is measured. It's about shootings, police density and unemployment. Regardless of which international measurements you choose to compare Sweden with other countries, we seem to be really bad and to be at the bottom. When it comes to the number of police officers, the hope is that we will reach the goal that there will be 10,000 more police employees by 2024. But an important part of this effort was that 7 000 of these 10 000 would be police officers and 3 000 would be police officers. This seems to be really difficult to reach even if you look at the most favorable scenarios. We from the Moderates are not going to accept any figures, but the objective that two thirds of the police workers should actually be police officers must remain firm. Even when we look at the number of police officers in external service, we see that it has decreased. When one looks at what various representatives say as a reason for this, the working conditions and working conditions of police officers in external service are mentioned. I think this is important because the report we are currently debating proposes, for example, that a police officer who is spit on or subjected to violence should be entitled to compensation for violations. This is what the government rejects. It's not to be on the side of the police. I almost put the coffee in my throat when I read the other day, like many others, that the Social Democratic Finance Minister wants to hunt gang criminals in their nightmares. No one believes that the Social Democrats are looking to hunt gang criminals in their nightmares. If it is something that the government and the Social Democrats are looking for, it is chasing ordinary citizens who go up in the morning, go to work, pay taxes, go home to their house or apartment and deposit their saved and valued money into an ISK account. It is these people who are doing the right thing. It is these people that the government and the Social Democrats are chasing in the nightmares, not the gang criminals, unfortunately. With this, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 24, in paragraph 23, from the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats on the compensation of violations to police officers. I hope that it will gain approval in this House.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-38	Madam President, I would like Before I enter the debate on the report, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats in accordance with Chapter 13. §4 The form of government demands that the Riksdag declare that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven does not enjoy the trust of the Riksdag. I hereby hand over the signatures. Madam President, I would like Swedish police today have major challenges compared to just a few years ago. The number of shootings has increased by nearly 10 per cent in 2020, and the number of deaths has increased by 12 per cent. It is clear that the objective of reducing the number of shootings and deadly violence has not been achieved. During 2021, however, we have seen a decline in deadly violence due to the fact that the Swedish police have received information from the French police and the FBI. But it's just a temporary decline. If the Swedish police do not get the resources they need to maintain pressure on the criminal environment, this will, as I said, be only a temporary decline. It is easy to place ultimate responsibility on the police, but the police are only doing their work on the basis of the conditions we have given them. The responsibility lies above all with the government, whose promises to reduce serious crime have not been fulfilled. Every other day there are reports of gunfire resulting in gunfire, many times fatal, rape, robbery, and so on by children. Many of these crimes come to the attention of health care and the rule of law. But beneath the surface are protective activities, drug trafficking and social misery that are the breeding ground for future crime. Madam President, I would like The police need to be better placed to intervene early on against those who commit their first crime. Anyone who robs their peers today is the one who shoots and blows up tomorrow if we do not succeed in putting an end to this development. In recent years we have seen increased polarisation in society, and in many areas of exclusion there is confidence in society and in the police in decline in particular. As these areas grow, insecurity, overcrowding and school segregation increase, making it easier for the gross criminals to advance their positions. The increasingly clear segregation leads to increased insecurity, which of course has direct consequences for the police and their ability to work both law enforcement and crime prevention. Madam President, I would like What, then, is the solution to this? Well, it is to ensure that the police profession is valued by means of substantially increased salaries, better working conditions, paid police training and that police officers are relieved by civilian employees in the field of non-police tasks, and not least by improving the efficiency of police duties. The police authorities need not only to hire more police officers, but also to be given the opportunity to free up resources, especially for those police officers working in external service. According to information from the Police Federation, the Police Authority could release up to 750 police officers in external service if 375 assistants were employed. A significant part of the police's activities is used to care for intoxicated people and people with mental health problems. The police take care of about 60,000 drunk people each year. They have committed no crime, but well-trained policemen drive them, lock them up and then keep track of them in a sobering cell. If these people are not violent, it should be a task for health care or any other appropriate unit. Other examples are that the police take care of dogs and cats. They transport people long distances across the country. When social services and others have gone home, the police are still there. The police take care of society when many others are not present. The police are there all year round, around the clock doing a lot of things that are not noticed in the statistics because these tasks are not measured. Madam President, I would like It is not reasonable for police officers with multi-annual training to carry out tasks where police competence is not required. An investigation should therefore be set up to review the current responsibilities of the police, which can be taken over by other units or civil servants in order to free up police skills. If we want higher police presence and better law enforcement, we need to look at how resources are distributed in society and who is responsible for what tasks. It is also necessary that police activities are monitored in both quantitative and qualitative terms and that there is greater accountability from the respective regional police chief and his responsibilities. We also need more managers and police employees with a police degree and experience in police work. The work of the Police Authority requires police competence, and it is important that more senior positions within the Police Authority have requirements for both police training and experience in police work. Through more career paths, it will also be part of increasing incentives for police officers to remain in the profession. Madam President, I would like Studies show that threats and violence against police officers have become increasingly severe, and it is common for police intervention to be filmed by the public. Two out of three police officers say in a survey conducted by the Police Federation that threats and violence against police officers have increased in recent years. Half of the police say that the violence and threats have also become more serious, which has led to an increasing number of police requests for protected personal data. According to a survey by the Police Federation, 72 percent of the police polled consider the protection of their ID data insufficient. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that all police officers requesting protected personal data should be granted it. It is also important that the right to compensation for violations of police officers be strengthened. No one shall have to endure violence, threats or violations in their professional activities. Ultimately, it risks becoming a democracy problem if individual police officers do not dare to do their job because of fear that they or their relatives will be subjected to violence, threats or harassment. Madam President, I would like The report contains a proposal for an announcement on the reintroduction of the emergency services. Prior to the closure, the emergency police constituted a resource of approximately 1 500 people. These could be deployed at short notice as reinforcements to the ordinary police. In the Stockholm area, 300 men could be called in for less than two hours. Unfortunately, this resource was not used to the extent requested by the Police Authority because the majority of applications were rejected by the then National Police Board. When the resource was decommissioned in 2012, it was one of the reasons. Now there are good reasons to reconsider the decision and reintroduce the emergency services. The political authority's human resources are currently undersized. Society is becoming increasingly insecure, organised crime has increased and the threat of terrorism is constantly present. It would therefore be an extraordinary additional resource to call in, if necessary, to relieve and strengthen the police with short-term anticipation. I'm in favour of reservation 14.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-57	Madam President, I would like During the spring, our working arrangements in Parliament have been discussed. The pandemic and the adaptations we have had to make have affected our way of working, and perhaps it has also raised new ideas on how we can innovate and develop our methods. Something that has not been directly touched on in this context and which I am thinking of now that we are debating the report on police matters is how long lead times we have for motion reports. I don't know about the rest of you, but the motions we are now debating, I worked on a year ago. And, Madam President, a lot of things have happened in a year. We have an instrument at our disposal to put forward important proposals when the need arises: committee initiatives. Madam President, I would like Gang violence is a serious threat to security in Sweden. For years, criminal gangs have been allowed to grow stronger and more dangerous. The responsibility rests with several governments that have underestimated this serious threat, but if we are to solve this major social problem, we do well to look ahead and develop powerful measures that hit the gang violence and do not shoot alongside the target. Several parties are working hard and exemplary in developing new policies in this important area and many other areas as well, and several of the proposals are good. There are, however, things which are less good and which pose serious risks which must be taken into account, such as the proposal we debated yesterday, to allow the police and prosecutors to use secret coercive measures against persons against whom there is a lack of suspicion of crime. Such a possibility may be effective, even though research support is lacking to do so, but there is a great risk that law enforcement authorities will spend a lot of time and resources following up on things that do not turn out to be a crime at all. Such misunderstandings are also in danger of hitting an individual who is subjected to these coercive measures. Hopefully no one will be innocently convicted, but only to be served suspicion of crime as an innocent would for the vast majority be a serious violation. Even greater is the violation if it goes so far as to arrest and detain the suspect. At the same time, the need for more measures is beyond doubt. However, there are alternative ways of increasing law enforcement capabilities, without the risks that the release of secret coercive measures would entail. At this morning's meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights today, I tabled a proposal for a committee initiative with six measures against, first and foremost, gang violence, but also other violent crimes. In yesterday's debate, and also in other contexts, I have argued that there are alternative ways of achieving the increase in law enforcement powers that secret coercive measures without suspicion of crime would be expected to bring about. The first two proposals are directly directed towards this very point. The first is to tighten the penalties for preparing for the crimes normally involved in gang crime, such as violent crimes, drug offences and common-law devastation, so that the penalty value reaches the level that secret coercive measures can be used. The second is the introduction of a new sentence, a restriction sentence, which can be imposed independently or in addition to a prison sentence and which means that a convicted person for crimes normally involved in gang crime during the sentence period of the restriction may be subject to secret coercive measures and restrictions which seriously hamper the possibility of undiscovered committing new crimes. This in itself does not solve the problem of defining what is a criminal gang, which is perhaps my main criticism of the proposal for secret coercive measures without suspicion of crime, but it meets just noted violent criminals well. The third is to review the penalties for all offences normally involved in gang crime, with a view to extending the sentence period for repeated repeat offences. Stricter penalties rarely have a deterrent effect in these cases, but this means that the sentenced person is deprived of the opportunity to commit new crimes during the sentence period and that the prison services have more time to work with a problem of violence. And, of course, a affected local community has a greater chance of recovery. It can be noted that measures against violent crimes also hit other serious areas of law, such as violence in close relationships. The fourth is a clarification of our common ambition to strengthen witness protection by tightening the penalties for abuse of justice. This is to some extent met by the agreement in the 34-point programme, but an important addition is that the penalty must be at least two years because it gives police and prosecutors access to more tools to work with. The fifth is to continue the expansion of the police so that the police density corresponds to at least one European standard level. The expansion of 10 000 more police employees under the January agreement and a broad consensus in Parliament by 2024 is good, but that is unlikely to be enough. We are well below the average in Europe today. In practice, we may be around 1.6 or 1.7 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants. Fully expanded in 2024, the expansion will lead to approximately 2.4 police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. We need to come up at least at a European level, which is around 3.1 and perhaps even more, because Sweden is a sparsely populated country. The sixth, Madam President, is that the police need to be more effective. There are several ways to achieve this. One way is to base more of the methodology development on the research that actually exists. In order to boost police research in Sweden, the police education needs to be added the last piece of the puzzle to give an academic degree. This provides a breadth and a basis for the research that we need. The last point is close to our reservation 15 in the report on the design of police training, and I would therefore like to call for its approval. To conclude, I would like to thank you for the broad support shown for the Center Party's point on tracking in sexual offences. The representatives of both the Social Democrats and the Moderates raised this point, which is extremely important. It gives a special satisfaction to hear such important policy proposals. When it is also a united parliament that supports them, it gets even better. Madam President, I would like If nothing unexpected happens, this will be my last chamber debate before the summer break. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the Chamber, our valiant committee office and all the members of the committee a really nice summer.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-73	Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party want a present, locally established and knowledgeable police force from the countryside to the suburbs. We want more cops. They should know their residential area, have a decent salary and a good working environment and want to make Sweden a safe country for everyone. The police have one of the finest missions you can have: to create a Sweden where everyone is safe and secure and trusts each other. Sweden stands out when it comes to gang crime and shootings. Too often, many are too insecure. Explosives and shootings occur all too often. The feeling of cohesion is weak right now – Sweden is torn apart due to increased gaps between residential areas and between people. Society is more complex, and so is crime. Today, it's complicated to investigate crimes. Many different competences are required, from how victims react in crisis and to link a unit to managing a large amount of information, such as the one that came when Encrochat was broken. It takes an extremely skilled police officer. For the police to be able to do good work, support for the police must be large. Unfortunately, it is not in all groups. There are misunderstandings and unclear communication from the police, which makes it difficult to understand, for example, why the Nordic Resistance had to demonstrate outside RFSL's premises in Almedalen a couple of years ago. It was something that caused an enormous number of LGBTQ people, and many others, to feel a great fear of their security. The decision may have been right from the point of view of legislation, but it created concern and fear. The police's work in communicating and working at demonstrations needs to be improved. The Left Party wants to see training measures in the fields of the code of conduct and the law of order. Today there is a multiplicity of police work, and this is a good thing. But the work focuses very much on who is recruited to the Police Authority and not as much on how the police's work is to be done. There are deep standards in the police force. It is the white man who is the norm, and it is from this that parts of the work are still going on. Too often videos circulate on police intervention where it goes really wrong. It is used assault, and the suspect is treated in a way that both appears to be and is perceived as very brutal. I'm contacted repeatedly by people about police behavior during interventions. I see what the forces of order are doing to Africans, to unaccompanied refugee children from Afghanistan and to every person with a different ethnic background. It pisses me off. It is damningly painful that the judiciary has not gone further than basing its interventions on prejudice. Ethnic profiling occurs too often. The report Randomly selected by Civil Rights Defenders and the Department of Criminology at Stockholm University shows that it is not about rotten apples within the corps, about individual events or that it is in some residential areas with other ethnic composition that this happens. It's just bad excuses. Ethnic profiling from the police is still happening. People are arrested, and violent methods are used against people who noticeably often stand out from the white Swedish norm. This is forbidden. That is why a general and long-term upgrading of skills is needed, not only for local police officers working in vulnerable areas but also for the police in general. It is about multicultural competence and that police work is complex and difficult. That is why extremely much knowledge is required. But it is above all a question of living in a racist social context where outdated norms still govern too much. That is why I am in favour of reservation 21. Before I am finished, Madam President, I would like to refer to the emergency police, as an announcement in today's report is about. The Left Party would like to see us reintroduce the emergency services, which were abolished in 2012. It is a matter of civilian police officers being able to strengthen regular staff in the event of specific incidents. The Left Party would like to see an investigation into how the introduction of an emergency police force could take place.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-86	Madam President, I would like Sweden is about to lose its grip on the escalating gang violence, and for many of the criminals all the bars have been released. The Christian Democrats believe that efforts to combat violence must become tougher. We need to protect vital social functions. Criminals put in systems to attack social offices, municipal halls, court halls and more to make work more difficult. We are constantly faced with news of shootings, bombs, stone stones, spittoons, threats and violence. The police, fire brigade and ambulance personnel suffer an enormous number of incomprehensible attacks. Anyone who attacks a vital function of society must be punished more severely. We are debating here and now police matters. It is a report dealing with some 400 motions in this area. It is about the police, which is one of the primary factors in creating security in our country. Police are an important resource for ensuring and maintaining the security of our society. It is therefore important that society clearly states that threats and violence against police officers and other social functions are not acceptable and that legislation clearly gives the police the right to maintain their security and that of others in our society. The police must also continue to recruit and employ at a high rate. As previous speakers have mentioned, we in Sweden are at the bottom of Europe in terms of police density. We need more police so that the police can have a proper presence in vulnerable places and in rural areas throughout our country. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, the report contains many different proposals. I would like to highlight some of them in this debate. As many speakers have said, there are proposals for an announcement regarding the emergency services. Emergency police officers were civil police officers who could be called in in the event of a serious or widespread disturbance, which occurred after the storm Gudrun. Emergency police were abolished in 2012, but the need for it did not disappear at the time. Among other things, an emergency police officer could have assisted the police in border controls during the refugee crisis. They could have been called in at the fires in recent years and also after the terrorist attack in 2017. Since only a few years have passed since the emergency services were abolished, many still have a fresh education. On very short notice, therefore, the emergency police could strengthen the police at border controls, identification checks or large traffic controls, for example. We see emergency police as a good complement. The Christian Democrats believe that with a change of direction it is possible to employ 2 000 emergency police in the long term. We also support the second announcement regarding the handling of trace securing kits in sexual crime investigations. It is important that everything is done to ensure that those who commit these vile crimes are also convicted of them. Madam President, I would like In addition to these announcements, I would like to highlight some of the proposals on which we Christian Democrats have been exercising. It's about the number of cops. As I said earlier, Sweden has too few policemen, and too few of them are out in the streets and squares. Since 2010, the number of police officers per 100,000 inhabitants has continuously decreased. With today's number of police officers, it is difficult to fight the gangs that have taken over in alienation areas while being present in small towns, where the police are sometimes almost absent today. To remedy this and ensure that the police can be present throughout the country, the Christian Democrats propose that Sweden should have 30,000 police officers as soon as possible. Therefore, it is good that the government is following up the KD-M budget's investment in the police. Unfortunately, it is clear that they themselves lack the necessary and long-term planning and ambition to expand Swedish police. The Christian Democrats choose to make a strong, offensive effort on the police. We spend a total of over 5.4 billion more than the government on the police over the next three-year period. We also want to give the police a proper raise. In our shadow budget, we set aside 1.3 billion to raise police salaries to attract more people into the profession. Madam President, I would like I also think it is important that there is a police officer attached to every school. In order to prevent and combat crime, it is important that there is confidence between police and young people. We believe it is important for the police to cooperate with all schools and propose that the conditions for linking a certain police officer to each school should be investigated. In this area there are also mentioned crimes committed by so-called animal rights activists. Hunters who carry out protective hunting or search on behalf of the police carry out an important community mission. We take it very seriously that hunters are being threatened and harassed by animal rights activists. We believe that there is a need for police work aimed at ideologically motivated crime and that crimes against hunters committed by animal rights activists should be taken much more seriously by the police. Madam President, I would like There is also a need to increase the sharing of information between police and social services. Cooperation between police and local authorities, especially social services, is fundamental to preventing juvenile delinquency. In 2013, a new confidentiality-breaking provision was introduced whereby, in some cases, a data relating to an individual under the age of 21 can be provided to the social services and the police. However, we believe that the current framework prevents an effective exchange of information. We believe, among other things, that social services and schools should, when justified, be obliged to break the confidentiality at the request of the police for crime prevention purposes. It is urgent that the legislation be amended. We believe that there also needs to be a review of the rules on the sharing of information between police and social services for persons over 21 years of age. This would enable information to be shared between the social services and the police to a greater extent than at present, which would, in particular, contribute positively to the police's crime prevention work. Madam President, I would like We need to restore the security of our society. Our streets and squares aren't designed to be gang conflict zones. In order to stop this violence and also face other crime in our country, the work of the police needs to be upgraded, and we legislators must provide additional conditions for the police to face crime in all its forms. Violence must stop. Sweden deserves better. We share the view of the majority in committee and support the two announcements on the matter. I also support the Christian Democrats' motions and reservations on this matter, but I only support reservation 5.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-109	Madam President, I would like Then came this day in June when we received a motion of censure against the constellation supporting this government, made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. It's not surprising. In the area we are now going to discuss, Madam President, paragraph 69 of the January Agreement and the accompanying budgetary cooperation are concerned. This is about the police and the important expansion of the Swedish police now, which was absolutely crucial for the Liberals to support this constellation in the January agreement. We believe, however, that this is not enough on the part of the Liberals. We are now hearing how the 10,000 police officers who were to be hired between 2016 and 2024 became most civilian. It is good, professional experts and skilled administrative staff who get pressure in the business. They're employees. Now it's the police trained to go to. We have now broken Swedish record in the number of police trainings. Unfortunately, they're not completely filled yet. But there are now more new police officers, and it is very important that we welcome them, every single one. There will be 5,000 more police officers by 2024, hopefully, some new and some re-employed. However, the Liberals believe that we have to up to the average in Europe. This means that we would like to see another 5 000 by 2029. This brings us up to about 30 000 police officers in Sweden, and that is what this country needs to reduce crime and increase security, because the numerary matters. When we do not have enough police officers, the rule of law is privatised. I have noticed that it is part of this House that is sometimes very concerned about the existence of market forces and other things that affect people's everyday lives and important parts of life. But they seem completely obscured when it comes to policemen. There are important security guards and security guards in the privatised security industry. But it is, of course, an answer to the fact that we in here are too bad at delivering the right number of police officers in Sweden. We'll see if there's an extra election, given the motion of censure, now that the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats have fallen into each other's arms – it sounds almost like Håkan Hellström. But then it is a promise from us that we will have another 5,000 police officers by 2029, when we have checked out of 5,000 by 2024. The steam should be kept up. But that's not enough. An important thing that happened yesterday was that there was an investigation into the municipalities' crime prevention work. This will be a responsibility for the municipalities, and it is very important. The police have to work close to the school and social services, which are involved in the investigation. Madam President, I would like I visited Eskilstuna the other day, last week, a historically sad gangster town in many ways. Last time, a lot of cars were burned because the police had put in some of the worst thugs. When you meet the cops there, you hear how few they are and how important it is that we get the number of district police. The presence of district police officers is also very low in Sweden, which we will discuss later today when we will discuss a report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report. There is a need for district policemen who work long-term and patiently with borderline relationship creation. There is a need for police officers in the community who work together with the school, social services, associations and the business community against crime. There is also such a programme that we have adopted here in Parliament. The municipalities and social services are therefore important. What has been called for in Eskilstuna, and which we in the Liberals have often called for here, is acting on behalf of people from social services who, for example, are in place in the hard summer night – or winter night, as you would like – and can take care of these young people. This is the biggest problem we have in Sweden: We have a social services law that was great when it came into force in 1980, but today it is a completely different Sweden we live in. Much earlier and clearer action is needed This also called for the police. They can't do much more than drive these broken children home running at night because the parents don't have the capacity or have abdicated for any other reason. There's got to be other people backing up. It would do a lot for the Swedish police if we had a more powerful social service that could really intervene. It is also important that the police do the right things. We know, for example, that Swedish police here on the spring side, in the middle of the fight against gang crime, had to go out and transport around a big whale. Of course, it does not happen every day that the police travel around with the corpse of an election, but it nevertheless points to the fact that the police have incorrectly defined tasks. There is too much that has been put on this authority. In the past, efforts to combat mental illness have been debated here, and this is also an area of concern. Psychiatria triambulans could take over some information from the police. It is unreasonable for the Swedish police in the morning to pick up people who intend to kill themselves because they feel so terribly bad and then get the same people back in the afternoon because they still feel very bad when the treatment – which was basically a visit to the psychiatrist, and then they were released – has not helped. It is absolutely crucial that the police have the right number, the right tasks and the right support. This support includes not only social services and municipalities, but also the importance of working broadly with other authorities. We must be happy that the government has been alerted to the last few days and made some proposals to work against financial crime. Serious criminals are not always sadists by definition; they are looking for money. They empty systems and engage in fraud, and all they do is spend money in different ways. That is why this money has to be beaten. It is absolutely clear to us in the Liberals to support this, but we want to go further. However, we are more concerned with procedural law and criminal law than with what the police should do. But they will work together, and it is the police who in discussions with the Swedish Tax Agency and other authorities will decide which efforts should be prioritised. It is important for the police to decide this, for it is not always crowns and crowns that are the key. Rather, it is the danger of these networks — these clans and parasites — to our welfare state. Madam President, I would like Many are now in here watching the government crisis unfold. One sees the Chairman of the Social Democrats in the committee wondering if he may remain in office. It will soon appear. I would also like to strike a blow for international cooperation and the importance of our being part of European cooperation. The recent international developments with various hits – the latest was the FBI that came up with a bag of information that Swedish police happily licked themselves and that Swedish prosecutors took on – will lead to even more people being locked up, which is good. That brings me to the next question. We don't know how it will be – there will be a messy end to this Parliamentary Session – but when we talk about the budget this autumn, it's not enough just to push on with the police that come with the agreement, but it also requires action on the prosecution side, the court side and the penitentiary side to place all these people. Now they have gone from double beds to four-storey beds; there are several institutions and detention centres that soon look like bedrooms on the Children's Island. This is not how we can have it, it has to provide resources now. It is also important that the whole range of law enforcement agencies is linked. You can't just talk about the police. Finally, Madam President, I should just like to mention that we welcome another important support. We have a positive basic attitude towards the emergency services, but we have highlighted in our special opinion why we do not support this. We have made a deal on this in the field of defence cooperation with the government. Sometimes you win, and sometimes you lose. Sometimes not all Liberals understand the wise arguments. However, this applies to security guards and security guards, and it is an important investigation that has come and is now being processed. From the Liberals' side, we hope that there will be a greater responsibility for security guards. Here there is a proposal to be able to relieve, for example, certain transport operations involving people who have drunk too much wine directly from the box or used other substances and who need to be taken care of. Of course, it is good if others than the police can act as a transport service in the work of sobering people and perhaps not drinking so much again. Furthermore, there is much to be done in the cooperation between the police and the municipalities, which often hire the guards to bring order to our streets and squares or to provide security on our public transport. Madam President, I would like As you know, I could stand here and talk for a long time, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 8.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-133	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to say that we have a great deal of reservations in this report. However, for the benefit of time and out of respect for the agreement that has been reached, I only support our reservation 4 in paragraph 4. If you can see in the documents, there is a long list of proposals for announcements from the committee. As usual, attempts are being made to give the impression that the parliament is pressing the government in front of it in the field of justice policy. And it has certainly happened that the House has made announcements that have led the government to change its policy, which is quite reasonable. That is exactly what our Constitution provides for. However, the absolute bulk of proposals for announcements in today's report is, unfortunately, of the nature of the fact that the process already under way meets the requirements of the government. Perhaps I would have liked a more judicious selection of the use of the powerful constitutional instrument of the announcement – and perhaps also of some other instruments with which we will be more familiar in the coming days. Anyway! Summer is a time for reading. We can soon leave the piles of reports that we have studied in recent months, and we can leave our loathsome Zoom screens. For us legal politicians, however, it may be useful to combine usefulness with reading desire, and I would like to pursue a discussion on the concept of young offenders on the basis of two books. Last year's big hit in this industry was the book Family, which described the patriarchal structures that exist in Borås harbour Gothenburg and which unfortunately are too topical today. It is award-winning and incredibly well written. In recent months, I am pleased to say, even the book of Diamant Salihus until everyone dies has been read. It gives a deep and nuanced picture of what the situation looks like in our tormented and so-called vulnerable – but I would rather say underprivileged – areas. It is a situation that tangles families and where the most extreme expression is the gang problem whose engine is drug management, personal robbery or threats. After the debate on this book was – unfortunately, I can say – very much about the music and about the actions of different hip-hop celebrities. It may be interesting in itself, but that is not the underlying factor in young people committing crimes in a wider perspective. Hiphop stars do not exist in all of these 26 particularly vulnerable areas – so we can say – although culture of course also has a negative impact sometimes. The opening chapter of this book contains sharp analyses of the underlying reasons why we are in the situation that we are doing. It describes how early warning bells rang and how the city and the state have withdrawn from these areas. It is about high population density, overcrowding, a very unequal situation in terms of ill health and living conditions, low levels of education and, in many respects, a disassembled school. One can see that the development in no part has really gone in the right direction, according to the author. That's where we have to start. It is not just a question of repressive measures and political short-termism. The house must be built from scratch. In the Järvafältet case, as early as 2007, when the district administrations of Kista and Rinkeby were merged and the operations were moved to the more wealthy Kista, see how the pattern was strengthened and clarified. Workplaces disappeared from Rinkeby. Authorities and administrations disappeared, along with employment services, postal services and other services. Eventually, there wasn't even an ATM in the area. The Swedish government simply checked out. At the same time, social services and leisure activities are plagued by reduced resources, and schools are not able to cope well with either the social situation or the development of knowledge. When the state disappears, then the chaos comes... someone at Järva formulated it. Is northern Stockholm unique? No, it's not. This exists in other forms throughout our elongated country, not only in the locality but also in the conflict between country and city. We see that society has withdrawn. There's got to be a turn on the horizon. The school – I have said this many times from this speaker's chair – could be the beautiful place that binds together, the powerful tool that society could have. Unfortunately, it has become a world-unique market-liberal experiment in the ditch, to the delight of wealthy shareholders alone. However, I would like to highlight a few flashes of light in this context. I see that in many places there are police areas that are pushing out resources in the areas, just as Johan here described a little while ago. You take foot patrols and jam out the open drug scenes. You can do it even in the short term. It's not a job that needs to take decades. It is a constant, consistent and regular presence that is required. It is necessary to change paradigms in the way they work and handle this. This expectation exists from policy towards the authorities. I see heroes, too. In recent weeks I have had the privilege of talking to and listening to Carolina Sinisalo from Järva, who, together with our own member Anders Österberg, who sits here normally, has done an incredible amount of hard work to change the reality of these environments. They give us keys and a different tone to face this seriously. They ask why it's easier to get a gun than to get a job. They are firmly convinced that it is about summer jobs, having swimming school for young people in the summer so that they learn to swim and to give them confidence in the future. Again, it is about what everyone says all the time: school, school, school. If we can't do this, the natural choice will be gang-criminal for a lot of these kids. It is a life of fear – stand out and freeze, be threatened by their comrades, eventually be captured by the police and be prosecuted. It is a hard life and an unprofitable life, but it is still the life that one considers a reasonable choice there and then. We have to give them other choices. That goes without saying. Madam President, I would like We have made a historic effort here. Much has been on the repressive side. However, I believe that the solution is found in Carolinas's and Anders' stories. We should listen to them more. Now I've focused on maybe our biggest challenge. I will also quickly highlight a mega-study conducted by Malmö University together with the Max Planck Institute and presented in some of the most prestigious journals in the world when it comes to criminology. It holds an extremely high scientific class, may be added. The time series are well-founded, the basic material is large and the study confirms what we already knew, and which is also confirmed by CAN reports, Brå's other reports and hospital statistics, namely that we after all have perhaps the most law-abiding generation of young people we have ever had, at least in modern times. It is also something that might need to be developed in the debate. We see that young people are more distancing themselves from crime and crime than ever before, at least as long as they have been measured. We see that changing relationships between school and parents make it easy for us to keep a better eye on young people. Young people's freedom in the step towards adulthood has changed. Of course, there are also downsides to such a phenomenon. However, the single most important factor we need to take with us is that we see new activity habits that explain the reduction of crime. Daily routines have changed over time. Young people are less out in the evenings, and if you are out in the evenings, you are in mixed environments where even people of our age are found, such as restaurants. It can also be about exploiting a richer social and cultural life. In the 1980s and 1990s, large youth gangs with hundreds of young people populated the central parts of our cities, and they were drawn into crime in the form of violent crime and abuse. This is very unusual today. We should also have that with us. Crime in central Stockholm, for example, has declined by well over 50% over the last 30 years. We need to bring those things with us to understand the key factors ahead. I have now oversold my speaking time, and the President is looking at me very hard. I am going to round off and wish you a pleasant summer and a good conclusion to the parliamentary year – an exciting and good conclusion.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-156	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a motion report on young offenders. The committee proposes 14 announcements to the government, which is very good. As my colleague Louise Meijer mentioned, the Parliamentary Session will end with about a hundred announcements to the government. It is a clear message from the Riksdag that it is dissatisfied with the government's legal policy. We Moderates have many good suggestions, and I have selected some that I shall mention here. We are in favour of all the reservations that we have included, but I am only in favour of number 20. Crime goes down in the ages. Many children under the age of 18 commit serious violent crimes, and the number under the age of 15 has increased sharply since 2016. Young people are over-represented in the statistics on suspects and also in terms of the number of offences committed. In Sweden, there have been far too weak reactions when young people commit crimes. Often there have been hardly any consequences at all. This must change. It is important that society reacts early and forcefully. The sooner society reacts, the more chance we have of breaking the criminal path before it has gone too far. The development of recent years in alienation areas has created a breeding ground for criminal gangs to grow ever stronger. Young people are often drawn into the criminal gangs – it can be about ten to twelve-year-olds. Young people are being used to sell drugs or transport weapons to gangs. The police in Stockholm and Gothenburg have stated that it is about hundreds of children running gang criminal cases. It's just terrible. Youth crime must be combated on many different fronts. Social services, police and other authorities must work together to ensure that early action is taken. Today, a young person may be arrested for very serious crimes and be back on the street on the same day, even though there is a high risk of a relapse in crime. It creates insecurity, and people stop trusting in the rule of law. The group of young people who repeatedly commit serious crimes must be removed from our streets in far more cases than are happening today. Today, it is true that young people between the ages of 15 and 18 can be arrested for serious crimes. But it happens too rarely. There are strong reasons for more young people who have committed serious crimes to be detained. This is particularly true if it is likely that the person will commit new crimes or go out into society to influence the criminal investigation in different ways, for example by threatening witnesses or plaintiffs so that they do not want to participate in the police investigation. Therefore, we Moderates believe that special juvenile detention needs to be set up to adapt to the needs and conditions of young people. I am pleased because we are going to have an announcement on this today. Parliament has decided on time limits for detention, which we Moderates have been against all along. It is obvious that detention periods should not be longer than required, but they should not be shorter than necessary to investigate serious crimes. This is particularly important for victims. They should feel that society is on their side and not on the side of the perpetrator, as it often seems today. Special youth courts should be set up to judge both in LVU cases and in cases where young people under the age of 18 are indicted. It is simply in order for it to go faster and be a more secure handling of prosecutions against young offenders. The handling shall be quick, and the staff shall have high and relevant competence. A new unit of the Prison Service needs to be set up for young people aged between 15 and 18, for the Prison Service has better skills to take care of and treat serious criminals than traditional social services have. This also means that it becomes more the responsibility of the state rather than the responsibility of municipalities and social services. We also want special youth prisons to be set up where security is much higher than at Sis homes. Here, too, we are getting through an announcement, with which I am very pleased. In recent years, many serious criminals have escaped from the Sis institutions. They're in prison for murder, aggravated rape and a lot of other serious crimes, and basically they've been able to walk out of Sis homes. It's under all the criticisms... it just can't be. That's why it's good that we get this announcement through. I would like to say a few words about the mapping and analysis of youth robberies, on which we are also being announced today. This morning, when I read the headlines in Expressen, there was a young man seriously injured after aggravated robbery in Huddinge. Four young men in a car jumped on a young guy walking down the street robbing and beating him roughly. Now this young robbery victim is in the hospital with serious injuries. These are not just words, but are about a person who has been attacked by four other people who knocked him down, robbed him and probably kicked him. I don't know if he's been stabbed or how they've hurt him, but it's just terrible. You don't have the guts to go out in town anymore. I think it is terrible, and it is particularly terrible for the person who has suffered this. But it's also someone's child and someone's brother. I get a lump in my stomach every time I read about this stuff. I have two sons, and every time I know they're going out to party with their friends, I have a stomachache and wonder if they'll come home all night or not. It's not supposed to be like that. That's why it's very good that we get the announcement through. Robberies against young people have increased sharply in recent years, and the robberies, too, have these humiliations, which are terrible. You can't swear in the speaker's chair, but I could do it right now, because it makes me so terribly angry that it's not enough to rob without also demeaning the robbers. Many of these crimes are never solved. The victims feel bad for a long time afterwards and do not dare to go out on the town, to school or to practice and all that it can be. As a society, we need to highlight these crimes more clearly. We also need more knowledge of why these robberies have increased in number. For this reason, a broad survey needs to be carried out to cover the nature of crime, who is robbing, who is the victim of crime and what the consequences are. Degradations should also be analysed. The aim is that if you know all this that I have just mentioned, you can also fight crime much better and hopefully see to it that it ends. I would like to say a few words about the youth discount for people between the ages of 18 and 21. We Moderates want to remove it completely. The government doesn't want that. A proposal is under way to remove the youth discount for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment, which would mean that a 20-year-old who commits an abuse of the standard level will still receive a discount. We think that is completely wrong. We want it to be completely removed. It is not fair that 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds who are of age get a discount when they abuse people and commit other crimes. Now my speaking time is up. I wish everyone a nice summer!
i-0250cf3b633173e2-178	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The report contains 14 announcements and many necessary proposals which are not part of the committee's proposal. I was going to spend my time focusing on what the Swedish Democrats think needs to be done in order for the crime of young offenders to be broken. We see that crime today is falling lower and lower in age. Many of the young criminals have the time to become professionals long before they reach the age of 18. Younger people in alienation areas are used as minions for older criminals, and it is not uncommon for 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds to commit very serious crimes, such as murder, assault and rape. The Swedish Democrats have long worked to get rid of the youth discount. Society needs to make it clear that there is no such thing as trying out criminality. If you are an adult, you should be judged by your actions, and that applies to everyone. Even the first-time adult offenders must face the consequences of their actions in order to understand the seriousness of their actions. It has been over 40 years since we lowered the age of government from 21 to 18. Being an adult means several rights, but it also entails several obligations. In Sweden we tend to forget just that. A young person who is 18 years of age but not 21 years of age and who commits a crime where the punishment is under one year's imprisonment is today punished by a reduction in the penalty. In practice, this means that an adult who commits aggravated assault, robbery or extortion receives an automatic discount on his or her sentence. The Swedish Democrats want the penalty rebate to be removed completely for everyone between 18 and 21 years of age. On another matter, we can note the characteristic features of this government in the area of criminal policy. The opposition is making announcements, and the government is investigating and drawing questions on a long bench. Since the Judiciary Committee decided in April 2017 on a abolished penalty reduction for young people, the issue has been investigated, and proposals were made at the government table in 2018. A year and a half later, the question was referred, and there is still neither a legislative referral nor a bill on Parliament's table. We have begun to get used to the fact that the government is taking the opportunity to hold press conferences on the proposals of the Swedish Democrats and the opposition, but that they are not implementing them can neither we nor Sweden be satisfied with. Madam President, I would like The development of society that we are seeing today calls for increased opportunities for society to intervene against those younger and younger individuals who are at risk of being involved in criminal settings. Many professions have begun their criminal career long before they reach the age of 15. As it works today, the police have no authority to do anything in the police sense when you encounter criminals under 15 years of age. Instead, they are handed over to social authorities with no tangible consequences. It'll be a signal that the kid's lifestyle isn't taken seriously. As crime is falling down at an early age, it is important to be able to catch young individuals early, and therefore the age of the criminal authority also needs to be revised. The Swedish democrats are therefore proposing a reduced age of punishment. Lowering the age of the criminal authority, removing the youth discount for adults and reducing the discount for young people aged 15 to 17 would have a good effect. The fact that young individuals are allowed to serve longer sentences does not have to be a bad thing. If they get good rehabilitation, vocational training or reading their grades, it is better than they quickly get back to their criminal gangs and continue to commit crimes. According to the same principle as school grades at an early age acting as an important signal system when something is wrong, we should face and fight crime at an early age. Early reactions allow for the necessary measures. Anyone who quickly encounters a consequence of his actions tends to relate to this very consequence in the future. Madam President, I would like The conditions for preventing a life in crime are better the earlier the first steps take place. Often there are no consequences for non-criminals who have committed crimes. This is often due to the fact that the crimes, even worse ones, are not investigated. In order to ensure that more crimes where the suspect is a minor are investigated, the knowledge of the social security secretary and the current legislation need to be updated. In order for the police to have more opportunities to prevent continued juvenile delinquency, it needs to be easier for the police and social services to cooperate. The confidentiality rules between social services and the police, but also other authorities, therefore, need to be removed. By giving social services and the police more opportunities to act early, society can more quickly indicate that criminal behaviour is not accepted. It'll increase the chances that the kid won't relapse into crime. Madam President, I would like Robbery against young people has increased sharply in recent years. Crimes leave a deep mark on the victim, and society needs to make a clear mark against that type of crime. We do not have enough knowledge of what the increase is due to. There is therefore a need for a broad identification of the nature of crime, the perpetrators of crime, the victims and the consequences of crime for the victims. In many cases, those who commit such crimes are very young. In order for them to understand the seriousness of what they have done, it is important to make a clear statement on the part of society. At the same time, it is important to put in place effective measures to strengthen the security of young people who are currently worried about being robbed on their way home from school or when they have only been out on one activity. Madam President, I would like There is talk of more police officers, stricter penalties for adults and children's rights in society. But when it comes to crime, that care is still primarily directed at the criminals, not at the victims who, in many cases, are children themselves. A greater focus therefore needs to be placed on victims, even from a crime prevention perspective. For all parties and politicians who protect the victim's perspective, reasonable penalties, where legal persons do not get discounts, are important. It is provocative for victims of serious crimes by 17-, 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds that some of them even receive no punishment. It should never be the case that a victim who is kicked down, abused and scarred for life should be forced to face the offender soon thereafter or that there is an imminent risk of more victims. Unfortunately, however, that is exactly what is happening in Sweden today. Those who accept this not only betray the victim and its relatives. They also betray all those who risk becoming the next victim. Madam President, I would like Cooperation between authorities and police and a functioning school are crucial factors in reducing the recruitment of young criminals. Serious consequences for real, faster prosecution and active work with collaboration between the actors who can really make a difference are key factors in the work to create a safer Sweden for all. I'm in favour of reservation 25.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-198	Madam President, I would like It is a pleasure to be able to participate in the debate of the Committee on Justice. In my day-to-day life, I am a member of the Education Committee. I will therefore begin a little with what has also been said here before: the coal plays an important role in the issues under discussion today. Further measures are needed to strengthen Swedish schools so that more people can meet the knowledge requirements. The question of how best to deal with young people who commit crimes certainly deserves our greatest commitment. The ability to break a development for a young person on a slide is hugely important. Similarly, any failure is extremely costly, in terms of socio-economic costs, but above all in terms of suffering for the future victims. It should also be said that in almost all cases the price is also very high for the young offenders who grow up to be an adult lifestyle crisis. The criminal life is not a rose dance. Criminals themselves suffer more crime than others and from a wide range of other factors that represent a low quality of life. There are a lot of good ideas in the exercise harvest from this parliamentary year and other things that have been in the loop for a long time. It is developed and clarified in this report. I would particularly like to highlight the importance of long-term work and crime prevention. Responsibility for crime prevention needs to be made clearer. It is also central for all involved that a proper process should take place about what actually happens when a non-criminal person commits or is presumed to have committed a crime, even if no punishment can be imposed. This is particularly true from a victim's perspective, but also so that the children who have experienced this from the other side can move forward. Of course, it is particularly important to have the evidence of the innocent accused for carrying out a criminal act. There are some points in the report that the Center Party thinks we should be more careful about. In the case of drug testing of minors, an investigation is ongoing to look at how this is to be done in a way that solves the problem but at the same time takes into account the particular sensitivity that it entails. Children are not adults, and it is important to make a difference when adult responsibility comes into play. We need to take greater account of children's emotional needs and treat them more carefully than adults. The detention of children shall be carried out with a great deal of restraint and understanding of what this may mean for the child's development. We therefore reject the proposal that children should be detained. Madam President, I would like It is important for all involved that a legal process is carried out as quickly as possible, while at the same time demanding a high level of legal certainty. We are therefore attracted by the idea of both on-call courts and faster prosecution. However, we do not see the value of having a parallel court system for cases where young people are accused. We support all of our reservations but claim for time winning approval only to reservation 16. Although the undersigned has not been involved in the work of the Committee on Justice during the past parliamentary year, I wish all the members of the Committee and the Registry a pleasant summer.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-208	Madam President, I would like Children must be allowed to be children. Young people must be allowed to be young people. Children are children, even when children commit the most brutal criminal acts. Children have special rights; adults have obligations. It is the duty of the Riksdag to ensure that children are treated as children and that children's rights are protected. Youth crime is declining, according to a recent study. I'm sure it depends on a lot of things. This is due, among other things, to behavioural changes. Young people make activity changes. You do other things today than before. It affects the criminal behavior. It is between 18 and 20 years of age that the absolute highest degree of prosecution takes place. It is a pattern that has remained unchanged over time. It is between 18 and 20 years that the most criminal acts are often committed. The most important lesson we can learn is that crime decreases as people get older. The older the person becomes, the less risk it is of continuing its criminal activity. It is therefore important for society not to cement criminal behaviour at an early age. Society should not go in hard and lock young people in prison walls. Because through the repression of society, young people can get caught up in criminal behaviour. We should not forget that in many circles it is cool and gives status to be detained, restricted and locked up in prison for a certain period of time. It creates status and deepens criminal identity. Everything that we in this House do not want to happen to young people, namely that they become criminal adults, is cemented if we make sure that we take real hard action at an early age. In 2017, 10,000 young adults were prosecuted for crimes, 26 of them for deadly violence, which is extremely serious. The rest were drug offences of a less serious nature, assault, assault and traffic offences. Of course it's very serious stuff. But these are also forms of serious crime that can actually be remedied through the efforts of society. Young people who commit serious crimes between the ages of 17 and 18 are often sentenced to closed juvenile care instead of prison. We have fixed-term sentences that are served in special departments at the State Departmental Board in closed youth care. Most of the people sitting there are boys. The average age is over 17 years. Sis has been working badly for a very long time. We have debated it in this committee. We have had draws in this House and in the committee. Action is being taken, which is very good. Safety has been too low. There has been too much confusion between those who sit there because they have committed crimes and those who sit there because they have mental health problems. I've talked to a lot of girls who have been isolated, held and very brutally treated when they've been sitting on Sis. We legislators and the state want young people and young girls who feel bad and who commit crimes to receive support and help, but they have not received it within Sis. It's very serious. There is a great deal that needs to happen, and I look forward to that development. It is at a young age that criminal behaviour must be broken. This is not done with more detention, as is being proposed today. A false majority proposes an announcement of more detention of children and young people and more detention of children. It is a very bad proposal that would strengthen criminal behaviour. There have also been proposals on drug testing for children under the age of 15, on the grounds that the legislation is not working very well today. No, maybe it doesn't. But that is probably not the main reason why the police are not testing children under 15 but that this is not actually the best measure that can be taken. Madam President, I would like There is a great deal that needs to be done to ensure that young people do not end up in crime. However, I believe that the false majority behind the proposals for announcements has taken a step in the completely wrong direction. That is why I am in favour of reservation 16.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-221	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start with a quote. 中 Lead the young into the way he should go, and he will follow it even as an old man. The quotation from the book of Proverbs is still valid, even though the words are thousand years old. The message in the quotation should form the basis for one of the most important tasks of society: to contribute to the positive growth and development of children and young people. Man needs to live in union with others and also have working relationships with his fellow human beings in order to feel good and be able to develop. The most basic form of community is the family, where people of different generations meet in love and trust. The understanding of this relationship is fundamental to Christian-Democratic ideology. Every human being is unique and valuable in itself. But alone is not strong in the various shifts of life. It is with others that we grow as people. Safe and well-functioning families are simply a must for society as a whole to function and grow strong. A society based on community and trust depends on people feeling safe in everyday life. Crime must therefore both be combated and prevented. When it comes to the latter, the family is an invaluable resource. The role of the family in raising and leading young people cannot be stressed enough. Every human being is responsible for his actions. Criminal acts cannot be reduced to either an upbringing or a social environment. But a supportive family policy is one of the most important efforts to minimise the risk of a youth falling into the wrong circles with criminality and crime as a result. Good standards and values are transferred between generations. Therefore, parental responsibility needs to be strengthened in our society. Madam President, I would like As previous speakers have mentioned, during this parliamentary year we have made about 100 announcements from the Committee on Justice. In this area, a majority in committee supports 14 announcements which in various ways support the prevention of crime for young people. I would like briefly to touch some of them. I also spoke about confidentiality in my last speech. A key factor in effective prevention is that the various actors who meet young people at risk can engage in dialogue and exchange information on youth. The Christian Democrats want to reform the current legislation in order to clarify the confidentiality rules and clarify them, so as to facilitate cooperation. The social services, the police and other authorities must work together to ensure that crime prevention measures are implemented early. Madam President, I would like We support the announcement that the confidentiality rules need to be amended in order to facilitate prevention. Several reports claim that crime is creeping further down the age line, so Christian Democrats believe that greater consideration should be given to young people. Young people require special consideration and, through a fast and legally secure legal process, need to realize that they are on the wrong path in life. We therefore want to introduce special youth courts. The youth courts also need to have an on-call function. A recent study describes that on-call courts would increase the flexibility and capacity of courts. They would probably also have had a positive impact on the length of criminal proceedings. In addition, they bring some criminal policy benefits, such as a much shorter time between criminal offences and convictions, which also contributes to quicker redress for the victim. This is particularly important in the case of young offenders and victims of crime. Madam President, I would like The KD-M budget increased funding to the Prison Service and included a mission to the agency to create a special unit for young gang members. Such a unit would need to develop relapse prevention and defection activities. The content of enforcement also needs to be made more meaningful and to include clear training plans. In order to improve the success of young gang members, more personalised programmes should be used to break criminal behaviour. The experience gained by the Prison Service and based on the proposed unit can serve as a basis for methodological support in other actors' work with young criminals in gang environments. Madam President, I would like The 14 announcements provide a basis for an improved focus on combating juvenile delinquency, but I would also like to highlight the following efforts that we Christian Democrats see as important. With regard to the penalty rebate for young people, we believe that the proposal the government intends to put forward is too thin. In practice, this means that a maximum of one per cent of all those who are prosecuted and receive youth discounts will be included. Although the government has changed its mind, we want to see the youth discount abolished for people between 18 and 21 years of age. At the same time, we see in the light of the criminal developments that are taking place that younger people, including those under the age of 18, commit and are convicted of major crimes, including murder. The report on the abolition of penalties for young people proposes a much sharper stairway for them between the ages of 15 and 18, so that the youth discount for them over 15 is stepped up more quickly. The Christian Democrats believe that the penalty rebate for legal persons must be abolished and that the penalty rebates should be minimised even for those under 18 years of age. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 20. Madam President, I would like In addition to what I have mentioned before, a number of measures are needed in the social field. The Christian Democrats have proposed a billion-dollar initiative for social action against crime. Social services need to be strengthened. We want to introduce a national emergency social emergency services that can be deployed in particularly vulnerable places. We also think that the SSPF, which is a model of collaboration between schools, social services, police and leisure, is good and needs to be further strengthened through initiatives across our country. We also want to set up more and more effective social intervention teams so that social services, schools and police in collaboration can help young people to stop committing crimes while ensuring that the form of work is continuously reviewed and improved. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats will continue to act during this term of office with further proposals in the important work of creating a safer Sweden and also finding ways to contribute to positive growth and development for all children and young people. This requires a supportive family policy, a good school, an investment in young people's growing-up environment, a thorough crime prevention work by the police and an offensive criminal policy. Let us guide the child on the right path in life through balanced decisions in this House.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-240	Madam President, I would like Let me take up where the good Ingemar Kihlström ended up talking about the family and leading our children on the right path. It is important, indeed, that we are right. It is clear, as has also been said, that development is fantastic, namely that today, young people are generally doing much better. They just shoplift less and commit fewer other crimes than I did, I was about to say, and those in my class did in our time in that generation. We'll be happy about that. We can also see an increasing number of young people getting involved in quite serious crime and destroying their own lives and the lives of others at a furious pace, and we are quite content with this. I am a true friend of the small communities of families and social contexts that may be important if the family does not work. It may be sports clubs or other places where people can grow and be raised with others. The word "comrade" is often used with a very negative tone. But being together in an association, no matter what it is about stamp collection, sports or whatever it may be, is very good. It is even more important for young people who may have very weak support from home. This also applies when the school does not manage to lift the young person up and stand for the levelling and support that is so important when it is tangled at home. As others have said here before, school is crucial to development. It is important that the school connects closely to social services and police in order to be able to act and stop small accidents from becoming major disasters. We still have to start with the young people who are vulnerable. Without going on too much about my own youth, which was a while ago, today we have another Sweden. We have people who are extremely strange and running around and nagging about that we should have sharia laws in Sweden. It runs around people who engage in clandom in Sweden. We have as it seems an accident in Malmö, which we can read about in the newspapers today. There is some municipal councillor who thinks that clandom is something you should walk with, crawl after and above all let yourself be hived under. Madam President, I would like We can't have that. We must ensure that there is a single rule of law. It applies to all people, young and old, in our country. We must take a strong stance against the parallel administration of justice, which is also complemented by serious organised crime, which has its own legal system when certain territorial areas are to be controlled by roadblocks and young people are being dragged in as foot soldiers or cannon fodder in the wake of serious crime. Bearing in mind the announcements that exist here is an ideological difference and a tonality in this House where we differ. It is bearing fruit in the crisis of government that is taking place here outside the doors of this House, Madam President, given that there will soon be a vote of censure. It's about whether to intervene early or later. I think, just like Linda Westerlund Snecker, that it was much better in the past when you could wait a bit and do the social measures. The Social Services Act was very well adapted for the Sweden that had social problems in the early 80s. Today we have another world. There the question of reactions is quite important. We are talking about children who grow up in social contexts that are similar to mental ice ages. It's a big alienation and school failure. Then there is nothing more important we can do than demonstrate early and clear action. There must be a reaction when these young people commit crimes. It's simply better to tune in the pelvis. That is why we are proposing announcements here about, for example, detention of the police. Why? Yes, to hand over to the social authorities. The alternative is not that the kid goes home to Mom and Dad in Bullerbyn and that everyone is happy. Then we'll talk a little seriously and pull in the allowance and have some curfew, which you yourself have applied over the years to raise your children. Instead, they come out to the gang on the street and commit new crimes and can note that nothing is happening. It is the misplaced benevolence and not to intervene that creates crime. That is why we Liberals are behind being able to detain, so that the young person goes directly to social services and something happens. It's supposed to be a consequence for the kid who's lived with no consequences, I'm afraid. It's the same with the arrest rules. It's about the humiliation robberies we're talking about. We have young people who are incredibly vulnerable. I don't know anyone in my hometown Örebro who is not worried about their teenage children and that they will be robbed or subjected to crime when they are in Örebro's city centre one night. This is how it is in every other Örebro, and there are many Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg. That is the situation in Sweden today. This is totally unacceptable. That is why it must be a consequence. To be able to investigate and then to investigate is reasonable. It is not in contrast to other things we do in this Parliament. We set deadlines for a young person not to sit longer than three months other than in exceptional cases. That's great. But we must also be able to act sooner. Preventive work is central. In order to gain time and to allow the subsequent speakers to speak before the crisis in government erupts, I just want to agree that we need to renovate the State Department Board. They are struggling with poor legislation. It's our fault. We really need to distinguish between young people and institutions that feel bad and young people in institutions that have committed crimes. The latter require a completely different approach. I'm going to connect with the Social Democrats here. We have tried to negotiate a great deal in the budget. I am very pleased that the Liberals have part of the so-called suburban lift with investments in vulnerable schools. That's $3 billion. Madam President, I would like It's so slow. It's so unimaginative. The last time the Social Democrats had great social ambitions was when they introduced maximum rates in kindergartens for people like me who have a lot of kids and who took advantage of it. What ambition is that? Now you have the social ambition that we should have some free weekend that costs as many billions as you want. What about a suburban lift costing it multiplied by the 3 billion? Let's see if that's the case. We will have to negotiate this in the budget negotiation. It's about money for the police and a big suburban lift. Then we are talking about billions of two-digit amounts to break the mental ice age that lowers our young people. I advocate the winning approval of time only to reservation 10, which I think is very good.
i-AtQT1PABnGVGDrGG66YeiG	During the plenary session earlier today, members of the Swedish Democrats put forward a motion of censure on Prime Minister Stefan Löfven (S). It is clear from the documents submitted that the requirement in the form of government for at least 35 members to assist the claim is met. The case is therefore being postponed. The President announces that the matter will be postponed tomorrow Friday and will then be put to the vote now on Monday, 21 June, at 10 a.m.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-263	Madam President, I would like This red-green government should never have taken office. With mutual threats of mistrust, Stefan Löfven has ruled Sweden for the last seven years. There has never been a clear direction of travel. Instead of grasping our problems, the government has scored a list of 73 points. The Social Democrats are basing their entire government on excluding two parties, elected by the Swedish people, from the political work. The January agreement even says black and white that the Left Party should be shut out of all influence. The result is a political circus that is not worthy of Sweden and, much worse: over the last seven years, serious social problems have become worse. The Moderates have a completely different view of politics. We want to put Sweden on a new course. We are working with all parties to bring about important reforms to strengthen the rights of vulnerable children, for more money for their welfare and for increased penalties. As a group leader, I am very proud of all the policies that the Moderates have achieved in opposition. But if Sweden is to get a new course, it will require a new government. From day one, we have been crystal clear: we are against this government. We voted against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, and we will do everything we can to remove the government. My question to the Prime Minister is against this background: will the Social Democrats meet the demands of the Left Party?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-268	Madam President, I would like This government has from day one focused on jobs. People are supposed to be in employment. I myself know what it means to have a job, and we know what it means for people in general to have a job to go to and make a living. Jobs, jobs, jobs. That is also why we succeeded so well with employment. At the time of the crisis, we had 300 000 more people in work than when we took office. We are investing in welfare, because people need welfare. They need to feel secure and be able to get from one job to another, for example, know that health care is there when you need it. It is about access to health care and welfare for all. We shall ensure that we are able to cope with a climate change change that is absolutely necessary and which also offers great opportunities for our country. It is both about managing the climate and doing our part but also about creating the new jobs and future sectors that the country needs. We increase security in streets and squares. Where society has neglected for many and where the state has withdrawn, we are now gradually moving forward positions and ensuring that the state is present around the country with service offices and services so that people feel that the state is there. We're not there. But that direction has been clear all along. Among other things, the Moderates, who are less successful in terms of jobs, finance and security, are opposed to this. The Moderates failed to build up the police when they were in government and had the opportunity. You don't care about the climate. There is no view of climate change and there is no doubt that there is a climate threat. The answer to Tobias Billström's question has already been given by the Minister of Justice, and that is that we are going to comply with the January agreement. We have a process underway, and that's what's to be completed. Once we have received the referral, we will write a referral to the Council of Law, and then we will also know what the proposal looks like.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-274	Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to see a collection in Sweden. Only then can we solve our serious problems. We're not friends of conflicts for nothing. On the contrary, we are convinced that more cooperation is needed if we are to succeed in taking our country out of the problems that we have. But this government is based on conflict and mutual threats. Sooner or later this would fail. The question wasn't if, but when. It is Stefan Lövven's government paper that is crashing here today, and the responsibility is the Prime Minister's. For the first time in seven years, it is therefore time for Stefan Löfven to take responsibility. My question and that of the Moderates remains: Will the Social Democrats meet the demands of the Left Party?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-277	Madam President, I would like Even if you have a completed paper, you must actually be able to improvise a little. I answered the question in the last line. We spent four months after the last election getting a government. Four months took it. When the January Contracting Parties signed the agreement, it was, of course, in good faith to ensure that the country could be steered and moved forward. It was an agreement based on values that we stand up for and that also sets out a clear direction for the country with all the tasks that we would take on, and we are now delivering that. No cooperation with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates once said. It was thought not long ago. But then something happened. All of a sudden it became very good to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. We had the same opinion for a while, Tobias Billström. Now the Moderates have turned, and I don't really understand why.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-282	Madam President, I would like This government has completely failed to deal with the difficult social problems that we have. The crime in our country is worse than ever. Care queues are growing, and pensions are far too low. What did the Prime Minister do at this point? Has he rolled up his sleeves and tried to gather the Riksdag to solve the problems together? No. On the contrary, he's hooked his arm with the Green Party. Together they have tabled one crazy proposal after another, and next week the Prime Minister intends to make a proposal that we increase asylum migration to Sweden. Madam President, I would like All policies are about priorities. At a time when we need every penny to solve the problems we have in Sweden, why does the Prime Minister choose to prioritise increased asylum immigration over, for example, increased pensions and shorter care queues?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-285	Madam President, I would like Now it is during this government's ownership that the rules and legislation have been changed so that we have a considerably lower level of immigration than when we took office. In addition, as I said, we had created over 300 000 more jobs before the pandemic. It's a success. We have increased pensions by an average of over SEK 2,000. It's a success. We have made the biggest investment in welfare in many, many years. I think that is a great success. We've built more housing than in 20 years. That's the rate we have now. We are up to about 60 000, but we would like to increase it further. The rate of the year is actually even higher now. We are building, for the first time, the housing debt that we have had for many years in our country. The police initiative is the biggest ever. We've made sure to strengthen the defense. What the former Prime Minister called self-interest has been strengthened more than in many years. We have developed the country's first national security strategy. I could go on for a long time. I understand that it does not appeal to the Swedish Democrats, who are a right-wing conservative party. I fully understand that. But I will continue to pursue the policy that I know is good for the country. We have many challenges ahead of us, but I fear a policy based on a right-wing conservative majority. It does not benefit Sweden. I will continue to take the fight that Sweden needs.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-290	Madam President, I would like I note that the Prime Minister chooses not to answer the question. Instead, he uses his full speaking time to talk about other things. In a situation where we have had a pandemic, where the care queues have grown, where unemployment is high, where there are major societal problems that need to be resolved and where every penny is needed in the construction of society, why does the government choose to put forward a proposal with more costly asylum immigration instead of spending resources on raising pensions, short-term care queues, strengthening the police and everything else we need in our country?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-292	Madam President, I would like Now Henrik Vinge doesn't listen to what I'm saying. When we took office, it was a much higher level of migration and immigration than it is now. This was due to legislation that came into force before we took office. Now we are changing that legislation, and now it is a significantly lower level of migration. The people who have come here come much faster at work now than before. Before it took eight nine years for 50 percent to get to work. Now they're in work after four or five years. It is still too long, but it is the right direction. We are making it possible for people to get a job, to get into education, to get in touch with the labour market. This is quite different from scrapping labour market policies and educational opportunities, which the Swedish democrats are probably looking forward to.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-294	Madam President, I would like Today, we have seen evidence that outer edge parties should not have influence in Swedish politics. But we have also seen other bourgeois parties who think it is more important to play a political game than a concrete policy of substance. They meet the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats politically in order to stop bourgeois liberal reforms. The Center Party puts both social problems and cooperation in focus and will continue to do so. That is why my question to the Prime Minister today focuses on the social problems that exist. Gang violence is a serious threat to security and to open Swedish democracy. For years, criminal gangs have been allowed to grow stronger and more dangerous. The 34-point program resulting from the cross-block talks that have been conducted was good, but more is needed. Today, therefore, the Center Party has put forward a proposal for a committee initiative in the Committee on Justice. The initiative contains six concrete proposals as an important part of combating violent crime, both by criminal gangs and by men's violence against women. It is about penalties, extended time for repeated repeat crimes, strengthened witness protection, more police and more research into the methods that actually work. These are proposals that I believe will make a real difference in breaking gang crime. Can the Social Democrats, the Prime Minister, support the proposals of the Center Party and the committee initiative that we have launched today in the Committee on Justice and show that they are prepared to put a firm stop to the fight against violent crime, are prepared to break the recruitment process, development and thus to increase security?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-298	Madam President, I would like As Annie Lööf says, this is one of the biggest challenges we have. It is about creating security for people and fighting the gangs. That was one of the reasons why the January Agreement was signed. Compromises and agreements are needed so that the country can be governed, among other things, in order to deal with gang crime. We have now begun a construction of the Police Authority, which we believe is absolutely necessary. There'll be 10,000 more police officers by the end of 2024. We're more than halfway, so it looks like we're gonna make it. We've tightened the penalties, given the police better tools and so on. I cannot stand here and respond precisely to the proposals put forward. I haven't seen them or read them for obvious reasons. We had a government meeting this morning. But we have clearly said that this will not be enough. We'll continue until the day the gangs are broken. It takes two tracks. First of all, it's supposed to be tough here and now. That is why we must continue to strengthen the police, tighten the penalties and do more. European and international work will also be crucial in the future. Secondly, it is a question of stopping recruitment to the gangs. This is forgetting the right-wing conservatives. We must ensure that the young boys – it is boys – are not drawn into the gangs. They're gonna do something else. They're supposed to dream of a profession, go to school and look forward to a future outside the gangs and crime. It requires a great deal of social effort, a substantial investment in schools and so on. We must hold on to these two tracks. We can build a lot of prisons and put a lot of criminals in them – for two years now we're up to a thousand, and they're going to jail – but we have to stop the influx so we can get our society in order.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-303	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for his reply. The proposals for which the Center Party is seeking support in the Committee on Justice today are about regaining the security and freedom of all the people who live in the affected areas and who become involuntary victims of the brutal gang crime that prevails. It is about the security of walking freely in streets and squares where you live. It's about being safe against gang crime and shootings, but it's also about the security of your own home. The developments that have taken place for a long time in Sweden are serious. Criminal gangs kidnap residential areas, murder on the street and pose a danger to ordinary, honest people. A great deal has been done, but more needs to be done. I hear what the Prime Minister says, and of course I respect that he has not read the committee initiative. I welcome an open view of the issue, but I would like the Social Democrats and other parties in the Swedish Parliament to support the committee initiative and the six concrete proposals.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-306	Madam President, I would like We will have to come back to those proposals. There is no doubt about the path we should take and that we should continue to show the criminal gangs that society is always stronger than they are. That's it. When we get together, we're gonna give the police the tools they're supposed to have, the number of colleagues they're supposed to have and tighten the penalties. Let's see two and a half years back in time. Then we can see that there are now about a thousand more in prison. Why is that? Well, the police have done something really good. It's because of better tools, sharper penalties and more cops. It is just as Annie Lööf says, namely that this is a question of freedom. The gang suffocates freedom in different parts of the country. That's freedom we're going to give people back. That is why the fight against gang crime must continue, and society is always stronger.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-310	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister has chosen to proceed with the plans for market rents, or free renting as the Prime Minister chooses to call it. He has refused to enter into negotiations with the tenants and their representatives to resolve the issue using the Swedish model. Instead, the Prime Minister presents a proposal that will break the Swedish model. The tenants will then be placed entirely alone against real estate companies and their large legal offices instead of having the right to negotiate collectively. The result is a system shift for greatly increased rents. I am convinced that the Prime Minister knows it himself. The Left Party has been trying to resolve the situation for two and a half years. Day after day, we have said that if the proposal is implemented, there is no longer a government basis for this government. I stand by my word. The Left Party no longer has confidence in the Prime Minister.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-314	Madam President, I would like First of all, Nooshi Dadgostar knows that there is no government proposal. Here the Left Party has made a complete turn. When the explanations of vote were given when I was accepted as Prime Minister by the Swedish Parliament, the Left Party said that if the government makes such a proposal, the Act on Employment Protection and Market Rents, the Left Party should act. Nooshi Dadgostar knows... at least she should know... that there is no government proposal. What there is is an investigation proposal. And not even the investigation proposal, even if you don't like it, can you say the consequences that Nooshi Dadgostar now lists. It's a long way from that. We are talking about new production and not about new production that has been granted investment aid, so here we are talking about a part of the property portfolio that is less than 1%. That's under 1 percent. In that situation, when there is no government proposal and when the investigation proposal is not even close to those effects, the Left Party chooses to censure. It's not responsible. The question then arises, and that is the important question now: What is the Left Party's alternative now? If you are prepared to take this step, you must also know what the alternative is. What is it that the Left Party advocates?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-318	Madam President, I would like I note that the Swedish Prime Minister does not answer the question. He doesn't know what his government base is, because the Left Party doesn't belong to it. It is probably a prime minister's main task to keep track of his government base. It seems obvious that the Prime Minister lacks confidence in the Swedish Parliament. The responsibility for this rests entirely with Stefan Löfven. Prior to the election, Stefan Löfven promised not to introduce market rents. Now he wants to do it, albeit under another name. There is no proposal, says Stefan Löfven. At the same time, he is very clear on the details of a proposal that does not exist. Of course, everyone realizes that this is a process of procrastination that the government is now engaged in. Before the elections, the Social Democrats said that a less regulated leasing system means a transition to market rents with an average increase of 24 – 50 percent. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is this proposal worth creating a government crisis for?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-323	Madam President, I would like Now it is not me and the government that are creating parliamentary crisis, but it is the Left Party that chooses to do so – because of a proposal that does not exist, because there is no government proposal. Again, there is an investigation proposal. It is written on the basis of the agreement we made in the January agreement. Let me say it again: it took four months to form a government after the elections. Four months. That was tough. It also meant that the four parties that finally settled, of course, all four must say: We want our share, and you should have your share. That's how it's done. But if you put ultimatums and say that you should only have what you want, we must devote it at least four more months. That is exactly how the Left Party is now acting.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-327	Madam President, I would like Even in the face of completed fact, when reality is perfectly clear to the Prime Minister of Sweden's highest decision-making assembly after we have just heard the leader of the Left Party, it seems that the Prime Minister can take in reality: that his government lacks the necessary support to remain in office. We look forward to the vote of censure on Monday. We look forward to seeing the government's Löfven fall. I am therefore not going to ask more questions that get non-answers but try to get answers about another reality that is about the honorary oppression that affects so many in Malmö. Recently, Kvällsposten revealed that an official working with Roma issues in Malmö at the same time arranges Roma legal proceedings that replace Swedish legal proceedings. Among other things, a man has been absolved of charges of raping a 13-year-old girl. The Social Democratic councillor Frida Trollmyr, who is responsible for the questions and who leads the Roma Council, has previously said that he does not know about the alternative trials. But the evening mail has revealed that it is not true. In September Trollmyr found out about this but then replied that there is nothing to be done about the issue because it would be a political suicide. It is an interesting priority but also an interesting observation. This raises the question why it would be political suicide to ensure that a child suspected of having been raped receives redress in a legal Swedish court. Malmö's leading politicians have refused to comment on Kvällposten's revelation that parallel legal proceedings are ongoing with the good memory of the Social Democrats at the expense of taxpayers. My question to the Prime Minister is what he intends to do and what he thinks about his party comrades wanting to cover up these extrajudicial trials – and why we should believe in S's solemn speech against honour violence when priorities are different in reality.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-335	Madam President, I would like I must nevertheless ask for some respect for the fact that I do not have detailed knowledge of exactly what Ebba Busch is referring to. But there should be no doubt whatsoever as to where we stand in terms of honour violence. We were the government that developed a ten-year strategy on men's violence against women, which included the crimes of honour, because we need to get to grips with this. It is based on prevention, because that is what we must fundamentally succeed in ensuring that violence never happens. The second thing it is based on is that we discover the violence much better. It requires work in large parts. Government, health care, school and whatever it may be—everybody should be able to see more clearly. The third is that we can actually frame those who commit these crimes. The fourth is that we need to increase knowledge. We will build on much more knowledge. Now the government has presented a new programme with 40 points to deal with precisely men's violence against women. It will tighten up this work. I think it would be good if we were to try to agree here on what we need to do, for real. But we will never give up on this. Men's violence against women must be stopped, as must the violence of honour.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-341	Madam President, I would like Violence against women is one of our biggest social problems. I feel quite confident that I share that conviction with the Prime Minister and the Social Democrats. But where are the Social Democrats now that the situation is sharp in Malmö? And that is not news; it has been going on for a long time. Let us talk about these 40 points! It's a 13-page document. But there is one thing that shines with its absence, and that is the concept of honour oppression. Many of the proposals in these 40 points are good. You have the support of the Christian Democrats in this, Stefan Löfven. What is missing is your support for all the hundreds of thousands who are judged to live under honorary oppression in Sweden. What's the news? Where's the judgment? What will be the consequences in Malmö? Are you also standing up for the women who suffer from the oppression of honour?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-344	Madam President, I would like The short answer is yes. Of course we do. We will never accept violence against women, no matter what they call it. I have said myself that I find it very difficult to associate this with honor at all, but now it is said that for some strange reason. No violence is okay, nor, of course, men's violence against women. This is why in 2016 we developed the first national strategy, which was implemented in 2017, a ten-year strategy. Now we're building on it, and that's exactly where these points are. These are criminal law measures, enhanced law enforcement and so on. I've got it with me. I hope we can agree on it. That would be good. We also agree that we will not give up on this, but that men's violence against women must be stopped. There I think – or I know – that we have a shared ambition.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-347	Madam President, I would like It is a little messy in this House, let us note. However, on behalf of the Liberals, I would like to highlight a few points that we think have been good in the January agreement, which is now being challenged. It may not be surprising that a majority in Parliament finds itself opposed to a minority. But we'll see what they want instead. In the January agreement, it was important that we got this in with 10 000 more police workers – crucial for the Liberals. We must try expulsion in the event of a crime more often when it comes to non-Swedish citizens. In the area of integration, we can also mention the importance of introducing language requirements for citizenship. It is absolutely crucial that this too should come about now, after 20 years of debate and opposition by a majority in this House. We have made a great deal of effort in the area of honour-related violence and repression, which is also part of the January agreement. But, Madam President, we must do much more because we see how freedom is darkened by serious crime and by parallel legal systems around our country. On and off, some fool comes up talking about sharia laws. We hear, as Ebba Busch mentioned now, that there are special courts for people with a certain background. That's crazy! Add to this what it looks like in the gang's regimes, that is, where they are ravaging and the Swedish rule of law has unfortunately checked out. There are a lot of reports and books written about this. It is the clans that govern – we have to do more. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: can the Prime Minister imagine that we are moving on to ban something that sounds strange to us who have cousins, namely cousin marriages? I cannot ask any question to Ebba Busch, but are you in on this? We must break the power of the clans. We shall have a legal order in Sweden. What does the Prime Minister say?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-352	Madam President, I would like That's right. We have to break the clans. There's no doubt about it. This also points to the fact that the agreement signed, the January agreement, is based on proper policies. The Moderates often stand and say that there are only 73 points, just to be against something. No, it's to be for something – for the values that build a society and to tackle societal challenges. This boils down to 73 concrete points, one of which is one. That is quite right, then. We must also be able to point out the successes. I think it is important that we also openly and honestly tell people that we have a major social problem with gang crime. But we also have a society that is stronger. We can also show that in Malmö and the Southern Police Region, for example, something is actually happening that is a success. It is therefore possible for us to take this on board, and that is why we must continue along this path. Legislation on so-called cousin marriages has been discussed for a long time. We do not have a ban on this today. This has been the case for a long time. I do not want to say here and now exactly what should be done with such legislation. I also see clear problems in implementing it, and then we have to discuss it in depth. However, you must not think that it means that you can continue with gang violence or oppress people in residential areas or wherever you are. It must always be stopped, regardless of this legislation.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-356	Madam President, I would like I'm not a doctor, but there are also medical problems with cousin marriages, if you were going to have children and so on. My point, and what has made it possible, for example, to ban cousin marriages in Norway and many other countries, is that this is used by the clan to create blood ties that lay the foundation for eternal segregation – anything but integration. We can face this with preventive action, more police officers, more reasonable penalties and relevant tools in the pursuit of the really serious criminals. It is excellent that the Center Party is now making some proposals in this area; it is not a day too soon, so to speak. The crucial thing is that the Prime Minister doesn't have to think about it. Just decide that we can go the Norwegian way. It is only to ban cousin marriages if you want to; it is not in contradiction to preventive action for people's freedom.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-359	Madam President, I would like I share the problem description and direction described by Johan Pehrson and the Liberals. But as Prime Minister, I don't think I'd even think about making a bill, so I'd advise against it. It is clear that we need to consider the consequences and the consequences of this legislation for so many years. It has been discussed before. It is clear that there are both pluses and minuses in changing legislation, and that needs to be considered. Actually, I'm going to do that with all the legislation-- think about what's good and what's not good. That's my answer.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-361	Madam President, I would like It has now been almost 30 years since Sweden received a new pension system. It would be a long-term and sustainable pension system that our finances could manage. In this respect, it has worked very well. However, there are some shortcomings in ensuring a good pension for pensioners. Pension systems, based on the principle of living wages, initially gave a pension of around 70% of the final salary, but that proportion has gradually been eroded. We Social Democrats have tried to do something about the very lowest pensions through increased guarantee pensions and the pension supplement that will be paid out now in September. In the long term, however, it is clear that it is contributions to the pension system that need to be increased. So what is the Prime Minister's plan to raise pensions for the country's pensioners in the long term?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-364	Madam President, I would like This was one of the priority areas already when we took office in autumn 2014. Pensioners need better conditions. The first thing we said was that we must remove the unfairly higher taxation of pensions compared with income from work. There is no moral basis for pensioners to pay higher taxes for the same income. Then we have also increased the guarantee pension, as well as the ceiling for the housing supplement. In addition, the pension supplement will be introduced this autumn, which means that you can get up to SEK 600 more a month. The long-term sustainability, however, is to increase the contribution, the contributions, to the pension system. That is why we think it is time to take that step and start as quickly as possible the payments actually made between the parties that agreed on the pension system. We should retire at least 70%; I think it is a reasonable level.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-367	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the government presented 40 points – a historic plan against men's violence against women. One of the important points in this list is to put your foot down against the men who pay to buy children's bodies. We in the Green Party believe that anyone who pays to have sex with a child should always be convicted of rape. We do not think it is okay that children whose abuse has been filmed are not considered victims of crime and that this is called pornography. We think they should have protection, no matter what their bodies look like. I wonder whether the Prime Minister shares this view and whether his party, too, is prepared to add the necessary resources to ensure that children who have been exploited in prostitution and subjected to sexual abuse receive adequate support and care.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-369	Madam President, I would like Of course, we share indignation and determination – something has to be done. This is disgusting; there is no other word for it. The government parties, as we presented this programme, agree that we must do something about it. But it's the same thing here. What's the best thing to do? There is no consideration, I think, for those who are doing this, but here the hardness must be leading. We will therefore ensure that we look into this in the best possible way so that we have effective legislation that tackles a major, disgusting social problem.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-372	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said in an interview last week that he did not close the door to wide-ranging interception of gang criminals. What a positive message, we thought Moderates, who have just put a proposal on this subject on the table of the Parliament. The government has not only welcomed but even cheered and held press conferences about how good it is that other countries have widely bugged gang criminals around the world, leading to arrests of Swedish citizens. So judge on our surprise when the Social Democrats then not only closed but slammed the door by voting against the Moderates' proposal for proactive interception of gang criminals. My question to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is therefore: why is the government not doing what is required and for preventive interception of gang criminals?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-375	Madam President, I would like Since we took office, we have worked systematically to break the gangs. That's why we've made sure we have a lot more cops. We will continue to do so. We've tightened our penalties, but we've also got better tools. That is why we have introduced data storage, the possibility of data reading and secret coercive measures, which is equal to interception. Now we're thinking we need to take another step here. In the midst of this work, a new issue is being raised, which will extend the time available for implementing what we want. Then we have said: Let's take this step, because we have to take this right now. That is the reason, quite simply. Then we have said that we are ready to look at this issue, but it is not just about saying that we are going to increase the interception, but it also requires a little reflection. We will make sure to have the best tools to crack the gangs, but we will also stand up for a society where we know that not just anyone gets bugged at any time.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-378	Madam President, I would like Today, the Police Authority loses experience and competence as too many leave the police profession prematurely. Last year, 628 police officers ended, of which 40% for a reason other than retirement. One important reason behind the early departures is the low wages. The police union has recently demanded an annual salary increase of 5%. The Swedish Democrats have for all years been the party that wanted to give the most money to the Police Authority, with a special salary bet of SEK 6 000 per month per police officer. We have also ensured, by supporting the previous M and KD budget, that the money earmarked for police salaries went through, unlike the government proposal, which last year did not even have the power to guarantee the police authority the money needed to reach the target of 10 000 more police officers by 2025. If the government continues to under-finance the judiciary, the target of more police officers will not be reached. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: can the government guarantee here today that the police authority will have the resources needed to strengthen the agency and give the police the salary they deserve?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-381	Madam President, I would like Let me first explain the facts. There are fewer police officers who stop now than before. There's more people coming back after leaving the police once. We are now training more than twice as many as under the previous government. That is why the Police Authority now believes it is possible to reach 10 000 more police employees by the end of 2024. It is for this reason that we have increased the appropriations for the police considerably. However, we choose to allow the parties to settle their salaries. That's how wage formation works. If we compare the situation today with what it was like before we started the initiative, it turns out that police salaries have been increased by about SEK 6,000 on average. I won't take poison on it, but I think it's one of the absolute best deals in the labour market. I also think it matters because more people are coming back into the profession.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-384	Madam President, I would like Let's see how long the Prime Minister's still in office. But it is not uncommon for the Prime Minister to travel to sporting events around the world. Tomorrow, Sweden will play a football game in Russia, and next week too. At the beginning of next year there will be winter Olympics in Beijing. Then comes a football World Cup in the dictatorship of Qatar. In Russia, we are now seeing how the democratic space is shrinking. The opposition is under pressure for the parliamentary elections this autumn. In China we see a suspected genocide of Uighurs and many other human rights violations. In Qatar there are incredible crimes against migrant workers and the construction workers who have built the arenas on which the football World Cup is to be played. I wonder how the Prime Minister views these arrangements and whether he intends to travel to them.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the interest in my travel schedule! I will come back to that when I have decided what commitment to commit myself, whether it is for sport or something else. There is no doubt that we must stand up for human rights wherever they are violated. That is why we in Sweden are very clear about this in the European Union. It is, among other things, we who drive the EU to need more tools and a stronger attitude towards Russia in order to combat human rights abuses. It is also the European Union that will be the important thing for us when we talk to China about the same things. In all these matters, we also want to keep a balance, so that we are very clear about what we never give up. We stand up for this, and we will never give up. But we will also seek dialogue.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-390	Madam President, I would like For 40 years, SKB has developed and researched the issue of nuclear waste disposal. All the facts are on the table, and there is also very strong support from the residents of Östhammar municipality to build this. Oskarshamn municipality has announced that information on both intermediate and final storage must be given at the same time; something else is unacceptable. A little over a month ago, an UMM, the original market message, came to the electricity market, which means that decisions on intermediate storages and disposals are not taken before the last August of this year, five of the six remaining reactors risk being closed within a few years, starting already in May 2024. This would be a very serious situation for Sweden. Therefore, my question will be very straightforward: will the government take a decision on the application for final disposal and interim storage no later than 31 August?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-393	Madam President, I would like We are working on this. Once we have it on our table, we must do our part as a government and go through and ensure that we have a sound basis for decision making. We have no other ambition – we want to make the decision even faster, because there is no need to drag it out unnecessarily. In fact, however, we also need to look at the different perspectives, and the various question marks that exist should be straightened out. Questions should be answered, and after that we will make decisions. We are working as quickly as possible in the responsible departments and in joint preparation with everything that is to be done to enable us to make decisions as soon as possible, so that those concerned can also be informed as soon as possible.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-396	Madam President, I would like I do not think it has escaped anyone in this House that a great tragedy occurred in Värmland Hagfors when a small five-year-old guy was found dead. It was a small child who was placed in an HVB home. I must say that I was deeply shocked that a five - year - old had been placed in an institution. Much has been done to strengthen the position of children as holders of rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has become law, and we have been given enhanced rights and protection also through our cooperation in the January Agreement. But the fact that a five-year-old ends up in a HVB home – a little boy who needs anything but an institution – makes no sense to me. I believe that both I and the Prime Minister agree on the basic needs of a child. I therefore ask whether the Prime Minister is prepared to review the law. It cannot be reasonable for young children to end up in institutions. On the contrary, it is quite unreasonable, especially from the child's point of view.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-399	Madam President, I would like Without going into government decisions and sneaking in in any wrong way, I can say that there are probably many people who feel questions about just that. But you have to investigate what has actually happened and how it could lead to such an unimaginable tragedy that this little guy is no longer alive. This is the first thing, and it is now up to those responsible to sort it out so that we can find out why. How could this happen at all? Then you have to decide what needs to be done in order for it never to happen again. Clearly, a five - year - old boy, a girl or a child should have protection and security at all that society should offer. It is a tragedy, and we must find out what has happened and then remedy it.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-402	Madam President, I would like My question to the Prime Minister is about the construction industry. As I myself come from the construction industry, I have met many Swedish construction workers who are worried about being competed out by workers who do not get decent wages, do not pay taxes and fees in Sweden and work in a terrible working environment and have far too long working hours. The government has invested heavily in combating working life crime. For example, more than 5 000 joint inspections have been carried out by the authorities, including by the construction industry.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-405	Madam President, I would like In 2014, we changed the direction of housing policy and introduced investment support, among other things. Now we are at a rate of 60,000 homes, so here is work for construction workers. But it will be built nicely, and that is why we have, among other things, abolished lex Laval. Now Building can demand collective agreements and take a fight for them. Entrepreneur responsibility is important, and the subcontractor who may not be paid should be able to go to the next stage and up to the main supplier. It is criminal to expose people to dangerous work, and the police, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Work Environment Agency have done 5 000 checks. We have to keep moving. On the Swedish labour market there should be order and order. It's the nicest job and the nicest conditions that apply. This is something that politics, unions and companies must work together for, because it is important for all of us.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-409	Madam President, I would like The night of Monday 24 August last year the Polarbread factory in Älvsbyn municipality burned to the ground. It was a very hard blow for the municipality and Norrbotten. A week later, on August 31, Prime Minister Älvsbyn visited and promised before a collective media meeting that the government would help Älvsbyn. A few months later, the night before Christmas Eve, the government announced its decision not to allow mining in Laver just outside Älvsbyn – a mining that could have directly and indirectly meant over 3 000 jobs.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-412	What has the government done so far to help Älvsbyn, because it was not only fair but empty promises the Prime Minister made?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-413	Madam President, I would like No, it wasn't, and that's why our policy is broad. It is true that decisions must also be made in the case of mining, and they can be positive or negative. We're investing in jobs all over the country. In Norrbotten it is now growing so that it creaks, and it depends on the products developed by industry with the support of society. Thankfully, the biggest investment in Norrbotten ever is being made, and people will have to move up. We are increasing training places so that people can take these jobs. We also ensure that Norrbotniabanan is built so that there will be rails along the entire Norrland coast. I am aware that Älvsbyn is not there, but this will still benefit Älvsbyn and the whole of Norrland. It is the whole country that applies, and it is such a policy that is being pursued.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-419	Madam President, I would like According to a recent report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, almost 700 000 foreign-born people are now unable to support themselves. This figure is increasing year by year, and it is not significantly affected by the billions spent on social democratic integration policies. It should also be clear to the Prime Minister that this development is not sustainable and that Sweden has come to a crossroads: either demandless mass immigration or a functioning welfare. There is no third option. Why does the Prime Minister think that self-sufficiency is not a relevant concept in this context? When the government presents the results of integration policy, it does so based on how many people have worked one day in November or how quickly a new arrival earns its first crown. However, this says very little about whether a person can live on his or her own salary. Why does the government not present this result based on the degree of self-sufficiency?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-424	Madam President, I would like The important thing is that people are in work, and that is why we must give them the opportunity to get to work, whether they are born in the country or come from other countries. The emphasis on education and contact with the world of work is crucial here, and now it is quicker to integrate people from other countries. This is connected. Let me say again that it is during our reign that immigration has fallen considerably. It is also during our reign that people have been given better opportunities to get to work. It does not agree with a right-wing conservative policy that removes educational opportunities and wants to send women back to the home with a custody allowance, as the Swedish Democrats want to do. Why should you have a new allowance for not working? It's very strange to me. Instead, make sure that people have the opportunity to work. That's much better.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-429	Madam President, I would like Almost a year ago, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union took a compromise decision to introduce conditionality, i.e. that countries must comply with the principles of the rule of law in order to benefit from EU funds. At the turn of the year, a further compromise was made, with which the Swedish Government was satisfied, despite the fact that the introduction was postponed to the future. Now the European Parliament has grown tired of the fact that the Commission has not produced guidelines and that EU funds are being paid out as usual pending the entry into force of the guidelines. The European Parliament is prepared to go to the Court of Justice of the European Union to ensure that the Commission fulfils its obligations. Throughout this process, the Left Party has criticised the Swedish Government for approving watered down wordings and compromises. In view of the European Parliament's actions, my question is this: how does the Prime Minister intend to act to ensure that conditionality takes effect and that countries that violate the principles of the rule of law will not benefit from EU funds and urgently?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-433	Madam President, I would like It was precisely with this determination that we pursued these demands. There has not been such a regulatory framework at all before, and that is why, together with like-minded people, we pushed that if the EU is to spend so much money from its treasury in both loans and grants, this must be bound to the need to comply with the EU's fundamental values. The regulatory framework was decided in December, and then another step was taken. We may have different views, but I had support in the Swedish Parliament to pursue this issue, among other things. Everyone in the European Council is clear that a fundamental condition of cooperation is that we maintain fundamental values, and that means that we should not receive financial support if we do not stand up for them.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-437	Madam President, I would like In recent weeks, investment savings accounts have been discussed extensively. It is not surprising because over 3 million Swedes have an ISK. The issue is therefore important to many. The purpose of ISK is to make it easy for people to save. Now, however, the Minister of Finance has said that ISK should be severely restricted by a ceiling on how much money you can have in your account. Many feel that this sends a strange signal that saving is not important. I think saving is important and should be encouraged. I therefore wonder what the government's policy is to encourage savings.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-440	Madam President, I would like Well, the existing one, and this includes ISK. What Hampus Hagman talks about is the reasoning of a working group of the party I lead. The inequality that is developing in our country is largely due to the difference in property income and return on capital. Here ISK is far from the big problem, and we shall encourage savings. No one has said that this should be severely restricted, but it is probably Hampus Hagman's own words. What the Minister of Finance has said and which is worth considering is whether we should have a system in which the one who has 3 million in his account should also have tax support. Is that an appropriate priority at a time when we need a lot of money for welfare? This is well worth considering, but we have no such proposal yet.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-446	Madam President, I would like Already high house prices skyrocket. More and more people in Sweden today refrain from getting divorced because they cannot afford to find a new and own home. For women in Stockholm County, the situation is particularly serious and difficult. Yet the Social Democracy, on top of this, wants to reintroduce property tax and to scale down interest rebates. It is politics and things that would bind women even more in relationships that they would prefer to leave behind. I think this is a major problem and I therefore wonder: what does the Prime Minister think about the fact that more and more women are having difficulties getting divorced?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-448	Madam President, I would like It is important to increase women's freedom. Therefore, it is not so smart for the conservative majority in Stockholm to sell out so many homes. It would have been good to have them left to offer them to women who want to divorce. When the former Social Democratic Government introduced investment aid, construction increased quite considerably. Then the so-called alliance government took away the support, and then the construction went down. Now we have introduced investment aid, and construction is increasing again. There's a connection here. We need to build more. That is the decision. We're gonna have to catch up on the housing debt. Then we'll get the prices in a long-term order. I believe that both Ida Drougge and I believe in market forces in this case. If you have a deficit of something, prices increase. That is why we need to catch up with the deficit, and then we need investment support. It is therefore a pity that the Moderates do not want investment aid.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-451	Madam President, I would like It was a dramatic day. I do not know whether all the journalists outside are keen to follow the report of the Committee on Justice 28 on young offenders or whether it is something else. At least that is what we are now going to continue to debate here. Madam President, I would like It is a smaller proportion of children and young people who commit crimes today than before, but among those who commit crimes it tends to become a more serious crime. Tackling this is absolutely crucial. Not least, it's about preventing new recruits from joining the gangs. In recent years, several measures and new laws have been adopted to address this – the new sanction for youth surveillance and faster prosecution – and the 34-point programme contains a series of measures for young people who commit crimes. Some have come into place and have thus been debated here before, and others are in the pipeline. Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the government presented a massive package of measures on men's violence against women. One might wonder whether men's violence against women is related to young offenders, but unfortunately men's violence against women also occurs in young relationships. Several of the measures presented yesterday are about this. It is, for example, about efforts at school and the possibility of using early interrogations better in the court process itself. This must be borne not least by men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, we debated a proposal for a committee initiative on additional directives for an investigation that was not yet in place. It's about changing the law on closed juvenile care. The amendment concerned what the opposition calls juvenile prisons and that the Prison Service should be given responsibility. This issue is also dealt with in the report. We have debated it before, but I can say it again: it is not a good proposal. It is a major reorganisation that risks having a serious negative impact on the entire prison system. It is also ignored that prison services do not currently deal with children in institutions and that completely new skills need to be worked up. Madam President, I would like However, making changes to the law on closed youth care is absolutely necessary, and there the Green Party has been a driving force. Those who have committed the crimes involved in closed juvenile care need to be changed. There is a need for longer penalties than today for young people who commit these serious crimes to overcome their lives. Finally, Madam President, since the Liberal spokesperson Johan Pehrson was into what has happened in Malmö and the very attentive statements from there, I would like to remind the Liberals, Johan Pehrson, that it is in Malmö that the Social Democrats and the Liberals are in charge. If he is seriously interested in what is happening in Malmö, he has no less than four liberal councillors to contact to make sure that there is a change in reality. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation number 1.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-460	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the Committee on Justice's report on arms issues. I would like to begin by pointing out that we support all our reservations. However, I only support reservation 16 concerning the European firearms passports. Madam President, I would like On Tuesday, Her Majesty The Queen was a prize-distributor at the Stockholm Prize in Criminology. The prize is an important part of Stockholm Criminology Symposium, which has taken place these days. The prize has been awarded since 2006 and is described as the world's largest and most prestigious award in criminology. The prize, awarded by the Foundation for the Stockholm Prize in Criminology in collaboration with Stockholm University and the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, goes to anyone or those who have made outstanding achievements in criminological research or who have applied it in practice to reduce crime and promote human rights. Her Majesty presented the award to Philip J Cook and Franklin E Zimring for their evidence-based research on the importance of arms laws. According to the jury, the award winners have developed important methods to demonstrate and understand the crucial role of access to firearms in relation to the number of deaths. They have proven convincingly that the claim that availability of firearms would not affect volume and damage is false. Madam President, I would like We face a major challenge both globally and nationally: how do we reduce the murders, suicides and accidents caused by firearms? In 2016, more than a quarter of a million people died in the world as a result of gun-related injuries. In Sweden, we have seen an increase up to 2020. At the beginning of this year we saw a decline. The increase in Sweden has been limited to young men in criminal settings in vulnerable areas. Family-related killings, as well as deadly violence, are reduced by methods other than firearms. In order to prevent deadly gun violence, it is important to use the collective resources of society on both the repressive and the social side. At the same time, it is important to also work to reduce recruitment to criminal gangs. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus in the Swedish Parliament regarding the work against illegal weapons. In recent years, the penalties for gun crimes have been tightened. The penalty for aggravated gun crimes has been raised in succession. Corresponding penalties have also been imposed for breaches of the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods, which includes hand grenades. New crimes have been introduced, while penalties for arms smuggling and smuggling of explosives have been tightened. The rules mean that there are now mandatory arrests in the case of serious weapons offences. In 2018, for example, the number of detentions increased by more than 500 per cent compared to previous years, from just over 50 to nearly 300 persons. Not only does this mean that people who commit serious weapons crimes disappear directly from the street and are gone for at least two years, but it is also a clear signal sent to other criminals. In addition, there have been strong investments in the Swedish Customs Agency. The resource enhancement shall be used to increase customs controls at the border. We are talking about increased controls to stop the smuggling of drugs and weapons. There have also been amnesties for firearms, as a large number of firearms and ammunition have been taken care of. Many of the illegal weapons in Sweden are smuggled in from the Western Balkans. In 2016, Sweden concluded two cooperation agreements to combat serious crime with Moldova and Serbia. There have been similar agreements with Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The agreements gave police and customs increased opportunities to combat the smuggling of illegal weapons and drugs. The government is also working internationally to prevent the illegal proliferation of weapons. This is done, inter alia, through active participation in the work to promote the implementation of the UN Arms Trade Treaty and the UN Programme of Action against the Illicit Trade in Small and Light Weapons and through assistance efforts. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, hunting is a large popular movement and an important part of Sweden's game conservation. And the scorer is an important part of the Swedish sports movement and the voluntary defence movement, which is a crucial part of the Swedish total defence. Our approach to Sweden's arms legislation is that it must be designed so that it counteracts the existence of illegal weapons in the country and that weapons do not come into criminal use. That is why high demands are placed on, among other things, the storage of firearms and ammunition. As regards, for example, the concept of exceptional reasons in the Arms Act, we believe that in the case of fully automatic weapons and single-handed weapons, special restrictive measures are warranted in the granting of permits. A single-handed weapon is the type of weapon most likely to be used for purposes other than those intended. The purpose of the temporary licences is to continuously monitor compliance with the conditions for authorisation with regard to the possession of particularly arduous or particularly dangerous weapons. It is therefore not only the care of the holder but also his need for the weapon that is regularly being tested. In order to minimise the number of one-handed weapons, we believe it is justified to check that the licence holder continues to meet the requirements. Madam President, I would like For almost 100 years, Sweden has had a requirement for authorisation for a weapon to be temporarily introduced into the country. When Sweden joined the EU, the Parliament decided that the permit should remain in place. The reason for Sweden's and other Member States' decision to retain a licence is that some Member States do not achieve the same high level of protection as we in the legislation regarding, for example, control and authorisation requirements for possession of firearms. One example is that a number of Member States lack authorisation tests for and thus control of shotguns. However, derogations from the authorisation apply to permanent arms authorisations issued by the competent authority of Denmark, Finland or Norway. The derogation has been justified by the fact that the requirements for obtaining a holding in those countries are comparable to the rules applicable in Sweden. If we were to have comparable rules across the EU, for example, if all countries were to implement the EU arms directive, the question of European firearms passports in our eyes would be different. Finally, Madam President, in January this House voted down the proposal for the implementation of the EU arms directive. The proposal also included reliefs in the authorisation requirement for silencers. The proposal meant that the person authorised or entitled to hold a particular gun for shooting without a special permit would be allowed to hold a silencer suitable for the weapon. At the moment, the Government Office is also preparing proposals for the so-called arms guard to be extended. We are therefore in favour of both the relaxation of the authorisation requirement for silencers and the extension of the weapons wardrobe.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-477	Madam President, I would like I thank Joakim Sandell for the speech, which I think was quite clear in evidence that Joakim Sandell is probably not a hunter, a shooter or any kind of gun owner. Instead, he reads the position of the Social Democrats calmly and neatly. We already know the attitude of the Social Democrats: six seven years have now been devoted to hunting Sweden's legal hunters and shooters instead of taking hold of the illegal weapons that we have around Sweden and which are far too easily accessible. That part is not as successful, but you do everything to try to make it even more difficult for Sweden's hunters and shooters. Madam President, I would like Today, we shall return to the views of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on arms issues. Two years ago, the Riksdag decided to address 7 announcements to the Government on arms issues. The Social Democratic Government has still not delivered what Parliament requested. A year ago, Madam President, the Parliament decided on a further 8 announcements on arms issues. The Social Democratic Government has still not delivered from them. So there are 15 announcements at the Government Office. It is clear that this government is not working on the issue, but is sitting on its hands. In addition to this, the Committee of Justice and the Riksdag are still waiting for a bill to remove the five-year licenses. It will be delivered by December of this year. And listen to this, you who listen: In 2015, this government was commissioned by the Swedish Parliament to establish a game agency, and still it has not established one. We've been waiting since 2015. Madam President, I would like The government's reckless actions against both the Committee of Justice and the Riksdag, as well as the country's hunters and shooters, are, of course, not acceptable. In a democracy they follow the decisions of the people and the parliament, but obviously this is not so important for the Social Democratic Power Party in the government. I can inform anyone who listens that the government claims that it has investigated the issue of the game agency since 2015. Thus, for six years, the Wildlife Authority has been investigated — with no result. Of course, no one believes in this, except perhaps the Social Democrats themselves. The government blames that no funding has been found for the new authority. But listen and wonder, Madam President: At the same time, i.e. since 2015, the government has found both data and funding for nine other new authorities in Sweden. It is about the Gender Equality Agency, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, the Ethical Review Authority, the Climate Policy Council and others. This only proves that the Parliament's decision to appoint a wildlife agency is clearly ignored, Madam President. You ignore the country's hunters and shooters and give priority to other tasks. Hunters and shooters end up far down the Social Democratic priority list. However, we shall soon be going to elections again, Madam President, and then we will actually have the opportunity to replace this government. I think we should seize that opportunity and give this country another chance to correct these issues. Madam President, I would like The government's actions regarding Parliament's decisions and against the country's hunters and shooters are, of course, very reprehensible. Refusing to implement Parliament's decisions and thus ignoring the democratic decisions taken by the country is serious – even very serious. What, then, has the government done during this time, rather than grasping the announcements that we have addressed to it? Well, the government has tried to over-implement the EU weapons directive, a proposal that Parliament has said no to and clearly placed in the trash. The government is also actively working to limit the possibility of using lead ammunition, which would make it very difficult for the country's hunters and shooters to use their weapons and perform both the hunt and the shooting in a safe and good way, as reasonable alternatives are lacking. Sweden already has very strict rules for lead ammunition and does not really need to go any further. What else has the government done, Madam President? Well, they have moved the general assignment from the Hunters' Association and transferred the responsibility and money to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is also planned to increase the hunting card fees for the country's hunters. So the country's hunters will pay more money to the state to hunt on their own hunting grounds. Madam President, I would like Other issues that the government has been working on are about the wolf tribe. We have a parliamentary decision to have 170 – 270 wolves in the country, and this government has released the wolf tribe to 400 wolves – probably 450. In conclusion, Madam President, one can only conclude that this government is doing everything, in all areas, to make it more difficult for its hunters and shooters. While working on that part, weapons have disappeared from within the Government Office. Some ten guns have been stolen inside the Government Office here in Stockholm, and they have not been found. The D.A. has closed the investigation. So now the criminal underworld has been equipped with a number of additional guns, which is serious. Swedish hunters and shooters have their weapons in weapons cabinets, but obviously there were deficiencies inside the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I am nevertheless pleased that we have a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament on these proposals and measures, which will make it easier for the country's hunters and shooters. In fact, the only problem that makes this not implemented is the Social Democratic Government, which has in every way stalled and defied Parliament's decisions. I have presented here some of the information that the government has put time on instead of implementing the 15 announcements that we have addressed on these issues over the last two years, plus this with the Wildlife Authority and the proposal on the five-year licences that we are waiting for. Today, Madam President, a majority in the Committee on Justice therefore submitted proposals for a further 11 announcements for decision here in Parliament. This means that the government will now have at least 26 announcements to work with, plus five-year licenses and the Wildlife Authority. The fact that the government is gathering announcements high in Rosenbad without doing anything is not entirely acceptable. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I intend to present our proposals for announcements, that is, what we want the government to implement as soon as possible – if we do not change the government here in the near future, which I actually hope we will. We want to transfer licensing from the police to the new Wildlife Agency. This would increase the possibility for the police to actually hunt down these criminals and criminals, as Mr Joakim mentioned in his speech. That is exactly what the police should be working on; they should not sit and administer weapons licenses for the legal hunters and shooters of the country. In fact, a new authority can do that – we have proposed the Wildlife Agency. We also want the processing times for licences to be reviewed. They must be reduced. In the past, authorities have been criticised for taking such a long time, and it is reasonable that we have the criterion that an authority should not be able to go on indefinitely before it actually takes a decision on a matter and gives permission or rejection. We therefore want to reduce the processing times for arms licences. We also want a review of arms legislation, and we want to divide arms legislation into two parts: a law for hunters' and shooters' weapons and the use of weapons, and a, much tougher, arms law for illegal weapons in criminal environments. The only parties that are actually opposed to this in the Swedish parliament are the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. We have a broad majority in favour of dividing up arms legislation in Sweden. We also want to remove exceptional reasons from arms legislation and replace them with specific reasons. Today, a gun shooter has tremendous demands for his first weapon. Of course you have to be suitable, and you have to perform a number of tests. You also have to work actively on this with the shooter, and you have to have a proper storage of your weapons. Visible reasons are therefore well met by replacing it with specific reasons; today it is almost impossible for people to expand their weapons wardrobe by perhaps buying another weapon for their shooting activity. That is why we propose that special reasons be removed. We also want to facilitate the licensing of arms transfers. We want to extend the possibility to switch arms within the arms closet directly to the arms dealer by making it a notification matter. For example, being able to trade one shotgun for another in one arms dealer, without a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy, would make it easier not only for the police, but above all for the hunters and shooters, who can have their weapon exchanged directly with the arms dealer. We also want to review the requirements for weapons licences so that the police will assess the weapons box itself and the vital parts of the weapon, i.e. the licensed parts, and not the pistons and other things, as we have learned that we can do on certain occasions. Here we want to clarify the legislation. We also want to remove the license requirement for silencers. There we are in complete agreement with the Social Democrats. You have had a number of years to solve this, but you have packaged a silencer removal together with an over-implementing of a weapons directive. If you had not done so, we would probably have got that issue through, but you tried to sneak through it to get through an over-implementing of the arms directive. We have requested that the government promptly return with these things. The committee also proposes an announcement on the extension of the arms wardrobe. The last time a decision was made to extend the arms shield was in 2019. We are now asking the Government to urgently come back with proposals on this. Of course, we also want to review the European firearms passports and make it easier for hunters to bring weapons into and out of the country. For a hunter, it can take an enormous amount of time before he gets permission to take his weapon with him into or out of Sweden. While the criminal drives past on the bridge with his gun in the trunk without any control, you put in rock-hard control on the one who has a permission to have the weapon and declare it on the way out and the way in. This can, of course, be reviewed so that we have a simpler handling of EU passports. Then we also want to review the arms trade and change the rules, not least in view of the pandemic. We have many small arms dealers in Sweden who may carry out a few arms transactions but who may be dealing with very exclusive and expensive weapons. It may also have been difficult during the pandemic to sell weapons or to show weapons at all. We want to review the criteria for being arms dealers, not just for carrying out 20 arms transactions per year. Last but not least, we want to move the surveillance of shooting ranges from the police to the new game agency. This supervision means that the country's already hard-tested police force will go around inspecting shooting ranges and give permission. In 2000, I think the police visited over 2,100 shooting ranges in the country. Our police officers, who are going to hunt precisely the criminals that Joakim Sandell talked about, are thus standing out on our shooting tracks in Sweden in a gravel pit and measuring shooting walls. Of course, another authority, in our case the Wildlife Authority, together with the shooting rangers, can solve this much better without the police having to be involved in the handling. An inspection of a shooting range can take anything between five and fifteen hours, with booking, travel, photo processing, contact with case officers, record keeping and mailing, and in some cases also a return visit. So that is what police officers do today, which we have a shortage in Sweden. They stand out in the pits of gravel and measure shooting range walls. Here we can do some, and in fact the Social Democrats should also be involved in such a proposal – but not. The proposal to transfer control and supervision of shooting ranges to another authority is the last announcement proposed in today's report. Thus, the government will soon have received 26 announcements, plus an additional assignment to remove five-year licences and establish the new Wildlife Agency. I hope that all the country's hunters and shooters will remember this as we are about to go to elections: this government has done everything in its power to try to degrade its law-abiding hunters and shooters. Thanks to the fact that we have a large and broad majority in the Swedish Parliament that has helped to stop the government's proposal and instead worked out proposals that will make it easier for the country's hunters and shooters, we have with a new government great opportunities to implement these announcements, for which there is a large and broad majority in the Swedish Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to say this to the country's hunters and shooters: you have a broad majority with you for the suggestions and ideas you have that could facilitate the handling of legal weapons by hunters and shooters. The problem is called the Social Democratic Government. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 12, which concerns the abolition of the licensing requirement for mouth chargers. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the Presidium of Presidents, the Registry and Members of the Committee on Justice and, of course, all the citizens of Europe a nice and pleasant summer.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-510	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3 in the report, although we naturally support all our reservations. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are in favour of responsible legal ownership of weapons by the country's hunters and sportsmen. The law-abiding, responsible citizens who handle their weapons responsibly and their possession of arms do not pose a problem in our society. There is also no proven link between legal gun owners and the shootings that take place in criminal gangs. It is, therefore, distressing that legal gun owners are repeatedly hit by law enforcement and increased bureaucracy in misguided attempts to curb the illegal possession of weapons. Today, we have an arms law that puts law-abiding arms owners who make a mistake at risk of being sentenced to very severe penalties for violations of laws that actually intend to prevent weapons from being used in criminal contexts. It may be that an arms owner has forgotten to renew a five-year license or has handled a weapon, or for that matter arms parts, carelessly but without criminal intent. The person who commits these acts is judged by the same laws as the one who deliberately and without permission holds a weapon and then uses it in criminal settings. It's not a reasonable order. Therefore, a review of the Arms Act is needed, with a distinction to be made between mistakes in the licensing and licensing process and arms offences in general. The severe punishments will lie on the gang criminals who shoot and kill around our country. Madam President, I would like As I said, the Swedish Democrats do not see the legal ownership of arms as a problem. Rather, we see that legal arms owners are unduly hit by legislative changes that actually intend to access illegal possession of arms. An example of this is the government's repeated attempt to regulate weapons warehouses. This would have made it more difficult for legal arms owners through increased administrative burden and led to an additional risk of prosecution due to negligence, for example due to a lost weapons warehouse. One of the main objectives set out for such regulation has been to facilitate the seizure and confiscation by the police of weapons warehouses found in criminals. Although we felt that the latest proposal would make it too difficult for legal gun owners, the aim was good and the police's possibilities for seizure and confiscation should be increased. On the other hand, we believe that this can be met by a change in confiscation rules and that an investigation should be set up in this area. It would provide the police with an additional tool to prevent weapons and arms parts from falling into the wrong hands, while at the same time it would not mean any deterioration for the country's legal arms owners. Madam President, I would like The concept of exceptional reasons in arms legislation has had a major impact on the country's arms owners. In the legal context, the wording represents a strong restriction on the possibility of obtaining authorisation to hold arms. The requirement was originally intended to require a certain age reached by the applicant and an acquired shooting skill. Despite several clarifications from the Riksdag, this has been interpreted in a more restrictive way that makes it more difficult for individual shooters to obtain permission to hold weapons than was intended. Therefore, the concept of extreme reasons should be extracted from Swedish arms legislation and replaced by a clear list of requirements for someone to have weapons. Madam President, I would like There are increasing demands on Swedish hunters. New responsibilities have been added, and others have disappeared or decreased in importance over the years. In our forests and soils, new species of game have also been introduced that place new demands on hunters and their hunting methods. A hunter often needs several different weapons in order to be able to carry out the most responsible hunting possible. For example, searching in dense forest is facilitated by a shorter rifle than is appropriate when sitting on a pass, where you often have more space for a longer pipe. Today, a hunter's need for four weapons is not called into question. It is a limit that many hunters achieve quite quickly. Hunting elk, wild boar, duck and deer, for example, is a need for four rifles not at all unusual as the conditions in the hunts differ. However, after specific justification, one or two more weapons may be granted. For example, it may be a matter of searching for traffic damage or of needing weapons of different calibre to hunt for different game. The Parliament has previously announced that an extension of the arms curtain should be carried out. In order to give the hunters the opportunities they want and deserve to be able to pursue a responsible hunt, it is important that the Government urgently returns with a proposal that corresponds to what the Riksdag has announced. Madam President, I would like I would like to finish my speech, because it is my last before the summer break, by wishing Members and the Bureau a nice summer with the opportunity to get some relaxation and recharge the batteries. I'll see you again soon in this Chamber!
i-0250cf3b633173e2-521	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, today we can see how gross and gang-related violence is taking new dangerous paths in our society. The justice of parallel society has gained ground under the S-government. Violence affects the whole of our country. Stockholm is currently hard hit by deadly gun violence, and the situation in Malmö has for a long time been demanding special efforts from the police. But even in smaller cities such as Borås we see deadly gang-related violence. Such a display of violence and a total lack of respect for the judiciary deserve the strong condemnation of society. The fight against organised crime must be intensified. Our society must be able to guarantee the safety of our citizens. The government is ultimately responsible for the wrong direction. Mortal violence cannot and must not be normalized. A recent report from Brå showed that Sweden is at the top of the list in terms of deadly gun violence in Europe. It requires proper measures to restore security, but despite this, the government has not been prepared to take effective action against gang crime and violence. In today's debate we are dealing with arms issues, and I can, like previous speakers, note that instead of making it more difficult for gang criminals to commit violent crimes with illegal weapons, the government is still, in many cases, targeting the Swedish hunting and shooting movement. It is often a question of making it more difficult for those who legally own and handle a weapon, even though it is not these weapons that are used in gang settlements. Madam President, I would like I note that in committee there has been a majority in favour of eleven announcements to the government in response to the motion for a resolution on arms issues. It is part of the approximately 100 announcements that are the result of the work of the Committee on Justice during this parliamentary year. Of course, we Christian Democrats still believe that further efforts are needed to access the possession of weapons and explosives by criminals, but we believe that this can and must be implemented in a way that does not create problems for ordinary hunters and sportsmen. Already today, gun ownership is surrounded by many rules, and society has many control functions for the owner of a weapon. That gang crime acts ruthlessly and socially dangerous shouldn't go out on the gun management of shooters and hunters. In today's Sweden there are about 550 000 registered gun owners. Studies over a period of ten years have shown that of the weapons used in serious crimes, only 1.2 weapons, i.e. about one weapon, each year came from hunting or shooting. It is therefore a very marginal part. For us Christian Democrats, it is obvious not to lump together hunters and sportsmen with those who behave the worst in society. The over-implementing of weapons directives or other unnecessary regulation that makes it difficult for law-abiding arms owners is not the method of stopping the increased number of shootings in our streets and squares. Harder grip against gang crime needs strong measures to ensure the security of our society, but, as we see it, it can happen without making life more difficult for law-abiding and responsible arms owners. It is an approach shared by the majority of the Committee on Justice, as this matter shows. The committee's position shows that there are ways to meet hunters' and sportsmen's requests for simplification of gun ownership without affecting the security of society. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention some of the points raised in this matter. With regard to weapons offences, the government has implemented some measures to tighten the penalties. Among other things, the minimum penalty for serious weapons offences has been raised, and recently it was proposed to increase the penalty for particularly serious weapons offences from six to seven years in prison. These are welcome increases, but they are insufficient. The serious weapons crimes have been responsible for the increase in gun violence in recent years. The availability of weapons and of people willing to use them is a crucial factor in the power of gang criminals. We believe that the crimes of arms must mean far more severe penalties. We want to see a substantial increase in the penalties for weapons offences. The maximum punishment for extremely serious weapons offences should just focus on the most serious weapons crimes, and the maximum punishment should be considerably higher than the seven years proposed by the government. Although we welcome the increase in penalties in recent years, we believe that these increases are insufficient to respond to the increase in firearms violence in recent years. On this basis, I call for reservation 1. Madam President, I would like My colleague, Mrs Bergheden, has very well listed many of the committee's announcements. I would also like to highlight the issue of a new licensing authority for arms licensing. In 2015, the Riksdag decided to establish a new authority responsible for hunting and game management. This decision has so far been refused by the government. That is regrettable for a number of reasons. The long processing times in arms licensing cases are a problem that affects the country's arms owners, and it can be questioned whether arms licensing is one of the tasks for which the Police Authority is best placed to be responsible. The Christian Democrats believe that the Police Authority should focus on its police core tasks. Based on the situation we see in our society, we believe that police data needs to be further refined. Managing weapons permits is one such issue that is appropriately moved from the police to a new authority. The fact that the Red-Green Government is not acting on this issue even though announcements have been made several times about the introduction of a new hunting authority is remarkable. We now assume, on the basis of the new announcement, that the government will come back as soon as possible with measures to create a new agency for hunting and game management and that the licensing process will be put on it. Madam President, I would like Arms legislation also needs to be reviewed. The Christian Democrats believe that there is a considerable difference between the man handling a legal weapon and the man using an illegal weapon. However, this distinction is not made clear in today's legislation. We believe that this should change. There is an essential difference between the strict licensing systems for hunting, sporting and collector weapons that exist in Sweden and the illegal import and manufacture of weapons used in criminal conflicts. It must also be reflected in the legislation. A review is needed to create a regulatory framework that does not unnecessarily complicate hunting and shooting. In addition, a clearer distinction should be made between rules on the handling of weapons by hunting and sportsmen and the criminal law provisions aimed at remedying the illegal handling of weapons. Madam President, I would like We also need, as the case shows, to comply with the announcement regarding licensing in the event of a change of arms and the requirements for an arms licence. Madam President, I would like This case shows that it is possible to choose a different direction from the one chosen so far by the government for the control and action of weapons in our country. The government has so far put forward several proposals that have made it difficult for legal owners of arms and also proposed legislative amendments that have over-implemented the European weapons directives rather than making strong proposals to meet the illegal weapons in our society. Today's eleven announcements show that there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament that wants to go another way. It is time for the government to listen to that message. With this, I would like to conclude by saying that we support the eleven declarations made in committee management and also the reservations made in the report, but, as I said, I am only in favour of reservation 1.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-543	Madam President, I would like Illegal weapons are a scourge. They are used in the exercise of power and in the brutal terror that prevails in certain areas, not least from criminal gangs and people who are engaged in extinguishing the freedom of peoples. At the same time, legal weapons are of great pleasure and essential for us to be able to pursue a reasonable hunt in the country and for people with perfectly legitimate interests as sportsmen to be able to practice their sport and their interest. Liberals support most of the proposals for announcements. In the context of the review, we believe that the main reasons should also be reviewed. The five-year rule, which we have been talking about for a long time, should perhaps be extended in time. Perhaps you should simplify it via, for example, shooting clubs. But it is important to remember, just as Moderate Sten Bergheden said, that inside the Government Office weapons that were extremely legal and reasonable to have disappeared. They disappeared somewhere. So it is not the case that weapons cannot be put into service simply because they are locked up and because a discreet person is responsible. It is therefore important to treat semi-automatic weapons and revolvers more carefully. That is why we do not support all the proposals for announcements in the report. But it is important to reduce red tape and make it easier for legal gun holders to either be hunters and do the important guarding or engage in a perfectly reasonable and acceptable sport, as sportsmen do. As many have said before, the focus should of course be on illegal weapons. It is about how they get in, how parts of them come in, how they are dealt with, how they can be searched for, what penalties we use and not least what toolbox we give police and prosecutors when they are going to hunt those behind the extensive introduction. The committee will talk next week about customs powers. We can't stop yet. Some have already wanted a happy summer. I would like to wish those who will not be in this House any more, even if some, perhaps all actually, will be here on Monday. The customs authorities' powers are an important part of combating illegal weapons in our society. Madam President, I would like I'm going to invite Sten Bergheden in a little bit of time, because as usual he had a lot to say. Therefore, for time to come, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 17 on the arms trade.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-549	Madam President, I would like I normally belong to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. It therefore feels fun to make a debut in and a little jump in with the Justice Committee. I am happy to take this debate. These are important issues, which in many areas have strong links to issues that we work with in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. On the issues that I deal with in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, I find many examples of how legislation with a perhaps fundamentally legitimate purpose affects individuals rather than meeting the problem they want to deal with. It paints with wide brush strokes in the design of legislation, which then affects individuals completely unnecessarily. We see this with regard to the protection of the beach, where legislation, based on the city's conditions, prevents rural people from developing their countryside. We see this in the case of forests, where the desire to protect more forests affects individual forest owners extremely hard. We also see it very clearly on arms issues. Unfortunately, the pursuit of illegal weapons often goes out on law-abiding gun owners. In this and previous debates today, we have heard a number of speeches and examples of the serious situation that Sweden is in with regard to gang violence and deadly violence with firearms. Sweden has serious problems with crimes linked to criminal settlements. Violence has increased both in scale and severity, in particular by increasing the use of firearms. Let me be very clear. Illegal weapons do not belong in our society. Unlawful possession of arms and smuggling shall lead to severe and immediate consequences. There is a broad consensus on this in the Swedish Parliament, and that is a good thing. Madam President, I would like Illegible weapons are to be removed. But let me be just as clear that we should protect our hunters, our sportsmen and our arms collectors. It's actually possible to combine. When we talk about these issues in the Swedish Parliament, we have a great responsibility to keep apples and pears separate. It's easy to connect illegal weapons with legal weapons. It's easy to talk sweepingly about global statistics on gunfire and connect it with legal weapons management. But as Ingemar Kihlström from the Christian Democrats was on and gave us figures, there is actually no research, at least I do not know, that supports that the shooting violence that we see in society in Sweden today is linked to legal weapons. That is why it is incredibly important that we talk about the right things, so that we can take the right measures and efforts to tackle the problem of illegal weapons. For the Center Party, it's important to keep that line. We have done so from start to finish in the almost eternity of the arms directive. And we will continue to do so. But it is not just a question of protecting the perspective of law-abiding citizens in new proposals. It is also a question of changing current legislation and correcting the distortions that exist. I was therefore very pleased when I saw the eleven announcements that the Committee of Justice is proposing to Parliament to decide on. One of the issues raised in the report is the need for new developments on arms legislation in Sweden, Madam President. We need to achieve a coherent, coherent, effective, proportionate and, not least, legally secure framework for how weapons should be handled in Sweden. The arms legislation, like a lot of other legislation at the moment, has become a patchwork. It is increasingly difficult to interpret, and it is becoming less and less legally secure and less effective. It is important that we do this. There is a need for coherent legislation for weapons in Sweden. Another important issue raised by the committee in its proposals for a declaration is the need to reorganise the responsibility of arms authorities. This is an issue that we in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture are also discussing with regularity. The 2015 announcement referred to earlier came from MJU. There is a great need to gather knowledge and expertise on weapons issues at your own authority. Preferably this could be done in a game agency. I really am no friend of expanding the already fairly broad authority flora. However, we see that both hunting and arms issues are being spread across several authorities and, in order to take a concerted approach, we see a great value in setting up a new authority that can deal with the issues in a way that meets the expectations we can have for effective management. It would probably also respond to several of the notices proposed by the Committee on Justice, such as shorter processing times or better functioning supervision. For example, it is important for the government to set up an investigation that looks at whether the responsibility for the supervision and licensing of shooting ranges should not lie on the suggestion of a game authority. The police have an enormous number of tasks to devote their valuable time to. Let them do so instead of pondering whether the appearance of a particular weapon makes it more or less suitable for hunting or controlling the game of a shooting range. For me, this is the first time I have taken part in this debate with you, but for many of you this is an issue that you have debated many times. Many of the announcements that are being made today concern matters that have been highlighted by the committee in the past as well. I am very pleased that the committee is highlighting these important issues, but I am of course also concerned that the government is not delivering on the repeated announcements made by Parliament on these issues. Therefore, it is very important that Parliament sends clear signals once again to both the government and society on arms issues. Illegal weapons should be removed from our society, but the country's collectors should be able to continue collecting, the country's hunters should be able to continue hunting and the country's sportsmen should be able to continue to train, compete and win championships around the world. I therefore call for the committee's report to be approved. Madam President, I would like I wish you all a happy summer. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: Thank you for that! We wish Members the same. It is like many times in the past, in some of the debates we have before the summer, not all of them. )
i-0250cf3b633173e2-563	Madam President, I would like Here and now we're going to discuss vulnerable areas. One city where there are several vulnerable areas is Malmö. Let's talk about Malmö! Today it was reported that a Social Democratic councillor has known that municipal activities were used to hold so-called Roma trials. What happened when this came out? How did the Social Democratic Council of Malmö react to this? Well, what am I supposed to do? You want me to shut down the business? Then I'll commit political suicide! That's what she said in a recording. Today, we have also heard that there will probably be a majority in favour of putting the Social Democratic-led government at the head of Stefan Löfven. I think that today's events, not only in this House but also in Malmö, show that it is not only time to remove Stefan Löfven. It is also time for Katrin Stjernfeldt Jammeh in Malmö to be deposed and replaced by the moderate leader Torbjörn Tegnhammar. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the affected areas, you can read that many of the measures formally addressed to the Swedish Police Authority still have a responsibility for. It is the government that will exercise leadership and ensure that shortcomings are addressed and that there are resources and tools to do so. As shown in the review report, it is a bit hip-like when it comes to classification of vulnerable areas. It is about a subjective sense rather than objective measurement data, monitoring of resources, the number of district police, access to cameras and so on. Such shortcomings could have been addressed relatively easily by the government if it had the power and will, but this is lacking. That is also why the Moderates will vote to remove Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister on Monday. I can only say that it is a pity that the government is not doing enough in one more area under the remit and remit of the Committee on Justice. We, from the Moderates' side, have expressed various reservations about this report. I would like to take this opportunity to support the reservation under paragraph 2 on the classification of vulnerable areas.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-568	Madam President, I would like Every other day there are reports of gunfire resulting in gunfire, many times fatal, rape and robbery, including by children. It is easy to place ultimate responsibility on the Police Authority, but they only carry out their work on the basis of the conditions we have given them. The responsibility lies above all with the government, which has more or less surrendered to serious crime. The Swedish National Audit Office's audit notes that in every three areas affected, there are not enough police officers to correspond to the decision of the Head of the National Police on at least one district police per 5,000 inhabitants. The investment of 10,000 more police workers by 2024 is a minimum which must be achieved. In order to get into parity with other countries, even more police officers are required, especially with the problems we have in today's Sweden. If the target of 10 000 more police officers is not reached by 2024, it is also not possible to realise the target of at least one district police per 5 000 inhabitants. In order for the Police Authority to be able to maintain a well-functioning operation, it is necessary that the resources requested by the Police Authority be provided by the Government through adequate budget support. In addition, additional resources need to be provided to enable the Police Authority to carry out targeted wage initiatives in order to retain staff and reinstate staff who have left the profession. Today, more police officers are being reinstated than before, but there is an enormous amount of expertise that has already left the agency. That is why this work should be stepped up even more. Madam President, I would like In order for the police to have more opportunities to prevent juvenile delinquency, it needs to be easier for the police and social services to cooperate. The confidentiality rules between the social services and the police but also other authorities need to be removed. By giving social services and police more opportunities to act early, society can more quickly indicate that criminal behaviour is not accepted. It will also increase the chances that young individuals will not relapse into crime. The Swedish National Audit Office has identified the problem both at the social services and at the Swedish Police Authority regarding confidentiality issues. There is uncertainty between the authorities as to which information may be shared and which may not be shared. This is a problem. That is why it is important to break this, especially if we want to break young people's path into crime at an early stage. This needs to be addressed urgently. The Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation is that a government inquiry into this should be set up. Madam President, I would like In several cases during the last parliamentary term, Parliament has abolished obstacles to the use of camera surveillance. However, due to the fact that the Police Authority has not received the necessary resources, the use of camera surveillance has not grown to the extent required. This also applies to the police's ability to carry body-borne cameras. The political authority's desire to increase camera surveillance should be a priority in order to reduce serious crime and increase security in the vulnerable areas of exclusion. The bottleneck is financing. The fact that the government has not yet provided the funds needed by the Police Authority is remarkable. Today's situation in vulnerable areas places special demands on the police's ability to carry out their work. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in its report that methodological support for defining vulnerable areas has shortcomings and is partly based on subjective assessments of the area's problems, which means that it is difficult to compare areas with each other. Therefore, the Police Authority needs to update its methodological support. The crime cad index should be used in police method work to classify vulnerable areas. Work is under way to develop the police's methodological support for vulnerable areas, which is good. But it needs to happen at a faster pace. Madam President, I would like Crime in vulnerable areas is higher than in other areas, and those living there are less secure. Often there is a culture of silence, and those who are victims of or witness crimes are often afraid to talk to the police. But anyone who wants to do the right thing and who lives and works in these particularly vulnerable areas is the one who is forced to take the worst blow to the government's failed policy. The Police Authority therefore needs to be given the resources it needs to ensure that there are sufficient police officers who can work long-term on the basis of adapted and proven working methods in these areas. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-579	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Madam President, I would like From the Center Party, we thank the Government for its letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report The right effort in the right place – the police's work in vulnerable areas. The Swedish National Audit Office concludes that the work of the Swedish Police Authority in vulnerable areas is not fully effective. Although the Police Authority has developed relevant strategies and recommendations for work in vulnerable areas, and although the individual police officers working in vulnerable areas have adapted their working methods and work according to proven methods to the extent possible in relation to the resource situation, the report shows that there are still shortcomings in the government's management of the agency that affect the conditions. Of course, it must be followed up and ensured that the resources specifically allocated to the work of the Political Authority in vulnerable areas are also used for this specific purpose. The report also shows that there is a shortage of technical equipment in the form of security cameras and body-borne cameras in vulnerable areas. Despite a major effort, supported, among other things, by the Center Party, to increase the number of police workers and to increase the attractiveness of the police profession through better conditions, the report shows that one third of local police areas with vulnerable areas do not meet the national target of one area police per 5 000 inhabitants. It also appears to have pre-emergency problems in measuring the police density in vulnerable areas. The absence of district police officers is a serious flaw. The police must be present throughout the country. Local presence and awareness of local conditions are of great importance for security-building and law enforcement. District police officers play a particularly important role in vulnerable areas. Both residents and traders in such areas testify to the crucial importance of local police presence for both the sense of security and the ability to prosecute crime and for successful crime prevention. Madam President, I would like For the prevention of crime, it is also of the utmost importance that the authorities cooperate. It is therefore deeply problematic that there is still uncertainty when it comes to confidentiality barriers and what information authorities may exchange. The Government has commissioned the Crime Prevention Council to identify obstacles to the sharing of information between social services and police for crime prevention purposes. The Crime Prevention Council has found in the survey submitted that the obstacle is largely a lack of knowledge of the confidentiality legislation and its non-confidential provision. Here the government must come back with measures. None of the shortcomings mentioned are difficult to remedy. Although the government has an ambition to reverse the development of vulnerable areas, the shortcomings identified in the review of leadership problems by the current government show. Madam President, I would like I am a substitute here in the speaker's chair in the debate on this matter. Nevertheless, I see clearly that the government still needs to strengthen its leadership and governance to ensure that the work of the Political Authority in vulnerable areas is appropriate.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-590	Madam President, I would like The police's work should be really good, especially where it is at its toughest. We will have a local police force – from the countryside to the suburbs. It should be a police officer who knows his area, has a good working environment and works in the very best way. Madam President, I would like I can see that it is very recurrent when the Committee on Justice talks about vulnerable areas that we are talking about something far away that we do not really know about. It is something that you want to be frightening, or that you might also find frightening. Exposed areas have become something that many politicians point the finger at. They say that over there we have problems. But vulnerable areas are our suburbs. These are our working areas. These are areas where ordinary people have been able to live in a rental apartment with a reasonable rent. It has been full of green areas and public transport. Not only have those who have been at the top of society had the opportunity to have a good everyday life. These have been areas that have had major socio-economic problems and economic challenges with unemployment and perhaps sick leave. But these are not vulnerable areas. These are areas that are having a tough time right now. For me as a left-wing party, these are our areas. This is where the Left Party voters are. It's left-wing territory. That's what we're fighting for. It is the people who live in the areas that our whole policy is aimed at improving. It is about making the class distinctions as small as possible and that everyone should be able to have a good life. But that is no longer how we talk about the affected areas. It is clear in the Swedish National Audit Office's report that the assessment of the affected areas by the Politiska området is very different. There has been no proper template to use when identifying certain areas. It's been very unserious. It damages confidence in the police and in how they work in the vulnerable areas. There is a lack of a scientifically-based method to talk about these areas and see which areas are to be classified in what way. There is also a lack of district police to achieve the goal set by the chief police officer. It is typical that it is the areas that need the most help from the police and perhaps the most police officers who know what they are doing that do not get it either. There is much that needs to be done in these areas. The very best effect is to reduce economic gaps and ensure that Sweden stays together. There are also some special efforts I would like to highlight, as the Left Party has rewritten in a very solid motion for the national audit report. We would like to create security zones in these areas. Very many other parties to the right of me, there are only parties to the right, talking about search zones. Instead, I want security zones. In such a way they have worked in Gårdsten in Gothenburg. Special security groups have been created there. These are groups of dedicated people who oversee evenings and weekends. They walk around and are present and visible in the area. Previously, they had guards who had about the same tasks. But it created a lot of conflict and problems having guardians. It works much better to have a security group. They build trust with the residents, and they have built up good cooperation with the police. For example, they help escort people between the home and the bus stop so that people will dare to move around in the community even in the evenings. They do traditional security walks. This is what the Left Party wants to see more of. We want to see more protective work, especially in order to ensure good long-term security in the affected areas and especially when the police fail to define what these areas are. There are other suggestions as to what we would like to see – as I said, we have a solid motion. We want to evaluate the security-building methods used by the police. We want the police's citizens' promises to be developed and to be able to work more effectively. We want the phase method to be used much more. We would like to see local social action groups. We would like to commission the Crime Prevention Council to work on concrete crime prevention efforts. And then there's this security zones and security swords thing. This and much more is needed. However, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-607	Madam President, I would like It's a long day's journey towards night. The day is coming to an end for us in the Committee on Justice with the fourth debate. Johan and I have participated in everyone. I saw that Johan was ready to come forward here, but I'll say a few words before it's his turn. Today's final debate, for our part, concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the work of the Political Authority. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the work of the Swedish Police Authority in vulnerable areas and found that it does not fully work properly. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office makes recommendations to the Police Authority. The report highlights the work and responsibility of the Political Authority, but we find that there is reason for the government to follow up the work further. I would like to raise some of the points. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the methodological support for defining a vulnerable area has shortcomings and is partly based on subjective assessments of the area's problems. It is therefore difficult to compare areas with each other. What the Swedish National Audit Office calls subjective assessments are estimates of problems, such as drug sales, which are not based on data but on just how big the problems are perceived to be. Estimates can be very different in different police areas, depending on the local situation. We agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism and are of the opinion that methodological support must be updated and that a crime harm index should be used in the police's method work when it comes to classifying vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like Another criticism addressed by the Swedish National Audit Office is that it is difficult to follow up the goal of one police officer per 5 000 inhabitants in vulnerable areas, as these do not constitute an organisational level within the Police Authority. A target that is difficult to measure will also be very difficult to achieve. We believe that the Police Authority should set internal targets that are measurable and achievable. This is particularly important in the vulnerable areas because of their vulnerability. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that security cameras and body-borne cameras are important tools for effective police work in vulnerable areas. The Christian Democrats share that view. That is why we pushed through a simplification of the regulation of camera surveillance. It is therefore serious that more than half of the managers in the local police areas, in vulnerable areas, say that they do not have access to body-borne cameras or security cameras. This means that the evidence in the case of very serious crime is in danger of becoming significantly worse and that the documentation of police interventions will be lacking. It is also serious that the government has maintained a number of restrictions on police use of cameras. These include, for example, surveillance using speed cameras and limited possibilities for so-called extended jaws, where a camera is used as a kind of remote binocular when it is not possible to have a scout in place. We believe that the government must ensure the Politiska ombudsman's access to cameras and provide sufficient resources to achieve this. On this basis, I call for reservation 5. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion is also that the work of the Swedish Police Authority in vulnerable areas is not fully effective. Although the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations are formally addressed to the Swedish Police Authority, we note that the responsibility is ultimately the government's, as a result of inadequate government control. We believe that the government needs to strengthen its leadership and governance to ensure that the Politigheten's work in vulnerable areas is effective. The Government should return to the Riksdag and report on its continued actions until the deficiencies highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office are resolved. I support the claims and reservations of the Christian Democrats, but I only support reservation 5, as I said. With this, I would like to thank you for today's debates and the good atmosphere that we have in committee and in debates. I would like to wish everyone, including the President and the President's Office, a pleasant summer.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-618	Madam President, I would like The report from the Swedish National Audit Office which we are now discussing, with regard to this report, is partly concerned in the previous report on police matters. It's about how the police are supposed to work and the police being present. A little simplistic can be said that the Swedish National Audit Office says that the police are doing the best they can with the resources they have. It is therefore a question of the number of district police officers who work closely with the citizens in general and in these vulnerable areas in particular. They are too few, and they will work on this that is so important and that you can call relationship-building and boundary-setting. Police officers present in an area can work closely with people who live there, security groups, which Linda Westerlund Snecker highlighted, property owners, not least, sports associations, school, social services and others who want order and security in their area. It is probably partly pointed out that it is a little unclear which methods are preferable. We usually try to leave it to the Swedish police to choose for ourselves according to the best ability, preferably based on knowledge and reality-based experience, if nothing else. But the presence and the numerary are important. We see in the report that very many areas do not reach the large number of police officers needed for positive forward-looking work. It can also be seen that many of them are not earmarked. They have lots of other data. They are torn away from the long-term relationship creation. When they are present, people do not commit crimes as easily. Those living in the area will have a better relationship with the police, as they then know, if they are not just there with the blue lights on when cars burn or something else happens or when the criminal gangs have taken over the area. Let me mention something about the security groups in Gårdsten. They work daytime or until midnight. Then it is the guards who take over the patrol itself. The security groups are very appreciated by those who live there and behave. If it's mopeds that are stolen, they'll make sure they go away right away. If there are extremely doubtful cars in a parking lot, those cars will go away at once. Worst case scenario, the wardens are working with the property owners. If people don't behave, you question the leases. Then you make sure that the networks around these people, often young people, who commit crimes – excuse me, I was swearing – are told carefully that they are going to stop this activity. The family can risk its coveted lease. So you put pressure and use the tenancy agreement via the security hosts. This is very successful, so I like it too. But it's not just walking around and talking, but you're pretty clear that the trick is taken early and chased all the way to the apartment door, so to speak. At the same time, people who have problems with plugs or leaking taps are helped. You give quick service, and you're appreciated. Enough about this. It is about being close to the citizens. We need more cops. That is why the Liberals say that we need to continue with the investment that is now solid, where we train a record number of Swedish police officers. There will be about 5,000 by 2024. That plan is still in place. As far as the Liberals are concerned, we are happy to move on with another 5 000 by 2029, because we need a police cut in our elongated and large country, which is at least on a European cut. It does not have to be much higher, but the police density should not be as much lower, as it is today. The police are one of our most important security-building measures and are there to give people freedom and chances of life instead of fear and gang rule. Earlier in today's debates, I have highlighted issues relating to the fight against serious crime. This is done both with sharp tools in procedural law and with relevant penalties. People who engage in crimes like lifestyles must be locked up for a long time. Then they'll have more time for rehabilitation. Above all, they do not commit crimes. It requires police officers, but we also have the National Audit Office's reports that have pointed to the importance of the whole judiciary sticking together. You can't just have a lot of cops; you also have to have prosecutors, courts and prisons. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of never recognising parallel legal systems. When someone's talking about sharia laws, it's just no thanks-- you can forget that. Is anyone saying that we should have some particular legal application for the Roma – forget it. We won't have that. If anyone else says that the clan should settle, this should not be possible either. Then one must dare to attack the structures that have chosen exit from the Swedish rule of law. These structures must be met. Then it is important, as has been debated earlier today, that we dare to say no to things that build these clans, such as the extremely strange phenomenon of cousin marriage that is to consolidate the power of the clans over the individual and that creates freedom and pulls down a blind for the freedom that all young people deserve in Sweden. This freedom also applies to those who live in these areas and who are exposed to the clans' grip. Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank everyone for a wonderful day in every way. I request for time winning consent only to reservation 1.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-630	Madam President, I would like When we debate the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the work of the Political Authority in vulnerable areas, I think it is important to carry with it two perspectives. Firstly, we shall see this review as a valuable contribution to the ongoing work of the Politiska ombudsman in vulnerable areas of our country. The police need to continue to develop their work on assessments of different areas, to follow more closely how many police officers are actually allocated to vulnerable areas and to strengthen their compliance with decisions on at least one area police per 5 000 inhabitants. At the same time, there is a need to ensure access to technical equipment and speed up the deployment of surveillance cameras and the distribution of body-borne cameras. I can also note that the Swedish National Audit Office gives the government the thumbs up and that the Government's ambitions and priorities are clearly reflected in the review. The problem of vulnerable areas is one of the government's top priorities, and it is of great importance that the work of the Political Authority in these areas is carried out effectively. We have also given the Police Authority a number of assignments to continue the intensive work to reverse developments. Among other things, it is a matter of concern to the government that the number of district police officers is increasing and that they have the opportunity to work long-term and protected with their main activities, namely contact creation, crime prevention and security-building work in the local community. The police authority now really needs to use the tools that they have available, such as camera surveillance, and on behalf of the government carefully monitor the development of shootings in vulnerable areas and over time work with updated situational images that give a comprehensive picture of what police measures are being taken in the affected areas and describe how the continued work will be carried out. Madam President, I would like Secondly, it is equally important that we in politics are clear that our country should not have vulnerable areas and that we continue to work to build a stronger Sweden step by step, budget and reform reform. We should not go back to a policy where the common will have to stand back. We should not neglect welfare through major tax cuts. We should not continue the market experiment that is segregating and putting the profits of venture capitalists above the needs of children. We should not allow housing segregation, unemployment and dead ends to put out faith in the future for young people. We must be able to fight both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. The best law enforcement in the long term is to build a society where the social divides are small, where everyone has the right to work, where women and men have equal power and where children and young people have secure conditions for growing up. In this way, welfare policy is an important part of criminal policy. Sweden should stick together. The criminality of gangs has grown for decades. It doesn't disappear overnight. Anyone who thinks there are some simple solutions to this major social problem is naive. The police themselves say that strong police efforts are needed as well as a stronger school and social services. Today's report from the Swedish National Audit Office is in this way about how the Police Authority can develop and strengthen its work in vulnerable areas and serves as a reminder of all the other things that we in politics need to manage to take responsibility for. We'll be uncompromising with the gangs. We're going to make sure that not a penny goes to the criminal networks. We need to break the new recruit. We can see how the work produces results. This is what the criminal gangs feel. In the last two years, more than 1 000 gang criminals have been detained. In other words, they are under heavy pressure. The intensive work of pushing back the serious criminal networks continues. We'll never back down. Society is always stronger than the gangs. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-644	Madam President, I would like I often hear from parents and friends that they are worried that they are unable to get their children to read. Some introduce rules on screen time. Others are nagging. Some people want the school to help. Some people ask me and other people who are interested in books if they can get tips on some novel or book that captures an eight - year - old, a twelve - year - old, or a sixteen - year - old. I keep getting into such discussions and conversations. Then parents often say that they themselves would like to read a little more. They feel that they spend too much time on mobile or social media and too little time on books. Perhaps there is a connection between the parents' own priority and the children's. The positive thing is that so many people actually realize that reading is important, that they want to read more and that they want their children to read more. There is reason to think so. In addition to reading provides a lovely relaxation, there are a wide range of positive consequences of being a book reader. That is why I am proud, Madam President, that, as a result of the January agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals, we are now taking a new approach to promoting children's and young people's reading. I think we underestimate the importance of being a reading people. It has consequences if fewer people read, and it has consequences if the reading gap grows. There will be consequences for both the individual and society. According to brain scientists, those who often read books have better memory, better attention, better factual understanding and better ability to think critically. Or let me give the late literary scientist Harold Bloom : It is difficult to understand how a person can think independently and make independent decisions if he does not continue to read. What if they're right? What if fewer people read, as statistics sometimes show, and what if the gaps between those who read much and those who do not read at all actually increase? What we will regret is that we did not make any more effort to promote reading, that we did not put forth any more effort to allow more people to experience what books and stories can bring in the form of amazing worlds and even side effects. Madam President, I would like For a long time, a number of initiatives have been taken around the country, and many projects have been launched to promote reading and reading. Many of them are good, and a lot of them are really good. At the same time, it has been difficult to get the really good projects spread across the country. It is often the case that you do not learn from each other and that you try to invent the wheel in your own way. Now I hope that we will have a broad, long-term and strategic start for reading promotion throughout the country. For example, a reading council is now being introduced. They will gather and coordinate actors and actions in the fields of culture, schools, authorities and civil society, businesses, public education, bookshops, publishers and other business sectors. They shall be responsible for the collection of knowledge, follow relevant research, identify development needs and disseminate good ideas. I hope and believe that this can be a new start for a more structured and long-term strategic work to promote reading in Sweden. Now the follow-up of reading promotion efforts is also strengthened, now the book start is further developing and now the effort is being extended to increase the curiosity for reading books also in preschool. Madam President, I would like Libraries are an amazing invention. It's a bit like Google but for real – much more than Google. While you have access to the digital, Google, you also have access to the physical and the human. Of course, in the reading effort of the parties behind the January agreement, libraries have a central role to play. For example, there is a reading promotion lift for librarians. In addition, there is an investment in reading promotion and public education about reading promotion for public librarians that allows more people to help young people find the book that can attract their imagination and strengthen their reading desire. Of course, the school libraries are particularly important. There is a big difference between municipalities, and there is sometimes a big difference within municipalities. School libraries play a particularly important role in promoting reading. The effort to strengthen libraries also continues. Libraries, of course, have a special role in my liberal heart. I think of libraries as some kind of fine network of meeting places for reading, education, stories and in-depth conversations. I am thinking that there may be more outreach activities, that cooperation with other meeting places may increase, and that may provide more opportunities to reach those who today do not seek out libraries. Therefore, libraries are a central and vital part of democracy, and they are also a central part of people's aspirations for understanding and power over their own life and freedom. Madam President, I would like I am proud and happy about the investments made. At the same time, it is important to recall that this is not something that can only be resolved by a public reading council or public arrangement. We all have a responsibility. It is a fine and reasonable position and a rule of life to think that what you want more of in society should also try to contribute yourself. It is likely better if an adult who wants to see more children read for themselves sometime puts away the phone and reads a book. We need more reading role models. It would be fun if more politicians and business leaders, athletes, mothers, fathers and many more became reading role models. Perhaps we can get some book tips from the Swedish football team in the next few weeks. Will the party leaders, Madam President, have a book in hand during the summer– you know what Barack Obama had sometimes? He went from one meeting to another with one finger in the middle of a novel. He could not hold on until he could open the book again and continue to read. It does a lot for reading and reading promotion to have that kind of role models. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to remind you of an absolutely crucial point which is partly beyond today's subject. It is good with reading promotion, it is good with projects, it is good with reading advice and it is good with strengthened libraries, but you must not forget the authors. Few things are better reading promotion than a really good book that many people want to read. It can be a book about Sweden's leading football player or a fictional story about mysterious events in Valleby. Sweden needs good conditions for those who create literature and stories, and we need really good conditions for reading. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 10 on safe libraries.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-660	Madam President, I would like Literature and reading have always been an important part of my life, and many with me. This has been the case since childhood and fairy tales with grandma in front of the fire or grandpa on the edge of the bed. What an atmosphere it was when you strolled around in the library in the large parsonage and marveled at the shelf metres after shelves of famous and unknown works. My cousin and I often got stuck in front of Indian hero Texas Jacks's adventures on the lower shelves. They attracted reading. As a child, I wrote a letter to Astrid Lindgren asking her kindly to write a continuation of the Brothers Lionheart, specifically about Nangilima. You wanted to know how it was going to go. I was very curious. In front of the TV, I listened to Magnus, Brasse and Eva, just like previous generations, when in Five Ants more than four elephants created absolutely brilliant educational creations and songs about the alphabet and reading. No wonder the series has been rerun for generation after generation and even today is available through SVT Play. Madam President, I would like I believe that society should show that reading and education are important. This can be done through a reading council, which is affected by the report, but it can also be done through the values sent out in public about language and reading. This is done by protecting and nurturing the language in all public communication and activities and by caring for the institutions, such as libraries, which have the task of promoting language, reading and education. Our proposal for a cultural cannon, mentioned in the report, includes the development of a classic list of literature. With the help of a classic list, it would become clearer during school time what you should bring with you to be equipped, to understand and pass on our collective memory, and for the individual student to become easier to take part of the Swedish literary tax through some of our most famous works. A broad reading of classics in school also leads, I believe, to developing their language and understanding of our surroundings, our environment and the development of our own culture. A classic list also shows that we value our language. Young people who are allowed to read classics are well placed to enjoy reading, language skills and a rich and beautiful language. The advancement of classics in the school world and the educational idea are today far too dependent on the individual teacher, and the national equivalence is weak. Madam President, I would like Regarding access to the language and literature tax, it is still remarkable that it is not today a right for a visually impaired person to learn Swedish Braille. Moreover, it is strange that the government continues to ignore the fact that the language law as it is designed does not guarantee the right of the visually impaired to the Swedish language in the form of Braille. This is the case today, and year by year the issue is dismissed from the table in the absence of political will from the other parties. In the light of our opinion on the matter, we believe that more can and must be done. That is why we have a reservation in the report. We further point out in the report that our view is that the government should examine more closely whether it is possible to address some factors that make young people read less and less, even if it changes. There is much competition for our attention and time in today's information flow. At the same time, more and more reports come that the big tech companies skillfully design algorithms that make us spend more and more time on their platforms than we really want. Machine learning makes use of our brains' reward systems. Of course, it affects more parts of life than reading, but when it involuntarily inhibits behavior and diverts our energy from achieving goals and language skills and reading, it becomes problematic. Madam President, I would like We do not share the government's attitude towards mother tongue teaching. Thus, we do not share the government's view of mother tongue policy on language and literature issues either. We, on our part, question good reasons for the argument that mother tongue teaching facilitates the absorption of Swedish. If mother tongue teaching were the key to learning to the extent claimed, this would be applied in more countries. In Denmark, mother tongue teaching has been discontinued because studies show that it does not benefit the learning of Danish or other subjects. There is no reason to believe that the situation in Sweden would be radically different from that in Denmark. As a country, Sweden has a special responsibility for literature in Swedish, for the national minority languages and for people with disabilities in the literary goals. The Library Act specifies that libraries should pay particular attention to some priority groups. These groups are persons with disabilities, persons belonging to one of the national minorities and persons with a mother tongue other than Swedish in addition to the national minority languages. How resources should be allocated is always a matter of priority, so also within the library system. We fully support special attention being paid to national minority languages and to people with special needs due to disabilities. However, we consider it both in principle and in the long term unreasonable that people with a mother tongue other than Swedish in addition to the national minority languages should be a priority for the Swedish library system, because that is what we are talking about here. Let's be careful about that. If you have space, economy and consensus that international languages can be taken into account to the same extent, it is often a local and unproblematic decision. But to give foreign languages in law the same status as Swedish in the order of priority is absurd in my world. We can easily see that the other languages in the group are very extensive and growing and that it would be costly and difficult for libraries to achieve the objective laid down by the legislature in a credible manner for both principled, cultural and economic reasons. Literature in languages other than Swedish and the national minority languages should be considered to prioritise primarily for educational purposes and in cases where a Swedish edition of the book is not available. However, the requirement for priority should be removed from the Library Act. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that this change would be about what should be prioritised and not about any of the collections that exist today or to continue with the purchases that have been planned to the extent possible. But it should be a matter for the library and the principal. Madam President, I would like The proposal for a national library strategy underlines the importance of a national library card that applies to all libraries in the country and leads to keyword optimization, linked data, use and connection to existing search services and other solutions. We believe that national lending opportunities can be improved by, for example, a national loan card, as we say in the report. Where and when the library environment is less accessible, digitalisation plays a crucial role. The Swedish Democrats believe that a digitalisation strategy is needed seriously for the country's collective works. Digitalisation of all Swedish works would increase accessibility to literature, not least for children and young people. At the same time, the availability of literature is protected and secured over time, which would benefit now growing up and future generations. This requires a national action plan, as pointed out in the national library strategy. What our Nordic neighbours have done in several respects, we should learn from and develop in terms of both work with digitalisation and rural libraries as well as coordination opportunities. Finally, I would like to say that I support all the Swedish-democratic reservations contained in the report, but for time-winning, I only support our second reservation on reading at school.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-683	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the Christian Democratic reservations, but for time to come I only support reservation number 11. Madam President, I would like Christian Democrats see it as important to promote children's and young people's reading. So we are concerned that the time spent reading by children and young people is falling. Young people today also do not meet requirements for their ability to express themselves in writing when they are going to go on to college and university or to apply for a qualified job. Mastering the Swedish language is a key to success in society. For a child who grows up in a home without books and without a reading tradition, it is particularly important that the school stimulates and encourages reading, not least if the child does not have Swedish as a native language. The Christian Democrats want to increase free reading by giving it space during school hours. We agree with the Government's letter on the need for reading promotion in and outside school, the increased interaction between public libraries, child health care and preschools in order to strengthen the language development of small children and the continued strengthening of pupils' language, reading and writing development. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats, however, lack a government focus on the family as an important breeding ground for both reading and language learning where inspiration is given. We would therefore like to emphasise the importance of home reading and the need for politics to encourage families to read and read aloud more than today. A study by Krishnan and Johnson from 2014 shows that children who have had experience of books already at the age of three to four months have better communicative abilities at the age of eight months than children who do not have that experience. Sharing the experience of books between parents and children helps to develop social abilities that are important in later learning. Madam President, I would like Unless the school offers guidance into literature history, it becomes a privilege reserved for those who bring it with them from home or whose parents deliberately chose a school where it is an element. The Christian Democrats therefore want to introduce a classic list, a list of literary works – novels, novels, essays, fairy tales and poems from antiquity to the present – but also films and music, with which all students should get in touch during their schooling. The Swedish National Agency for Education should have the main responsibility, and the literary and idea-historical institutions play an important role in the selection process. It is not politicians who should decide which works should be included. The selection should be based on the literary and linguistic qualities and cultural historical significance of the works. We're pretty lonely about this. There are various kinds of criticism against it. Some party has previously thought this was a good idea but then left the idea of a classic list. I got in my hand some time ago a book called Sweden reads! : 1066 books from a thousand years of Swedish literature from Viking times to the year 2000, which among others the Swedish Academy has been involved in producing. So it is 1,066 books from a thousand years of literature. That's what I call a classic list! I think this is something we're missing if we don't see the value of it. The Focus magazine wrote an article about 50 books that should be read. You could also say that is a list of classics. So think a little more about the attitude, you who have previously been negative to this! In order to facilitate the conditions for reading, libraries are an extremely important player. We would like to emphasise the importance of school libraries to arouse children's and young people's interest in reading and books. In addition, school libraries are of great importance for pupils' education and reading training. The Christian Democrats believe that a broad investment in reading and learning is made by emphasising the school's educational mission and directing efforts towards increased reading comprehension and reading learning so that they benefit all children. Madam President, I would like Ben White, chairman of the Conference of European National Librarians Copyright Working Group, writes in an article from 2012 that libraries are important in society as a way into knowledge and culture. According to White, libraries are synonymous with education and offer many different learning opportunities, which can then support economic, social and cultural development. Christian Democrats believe it is important that libraries are available to people in different social contexts to promote not least reading comprehension. For this reason, we also want to continue the efforts made by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates in our joint budget for 2019 at libraries in alienated areas. Finally, I would like to give you a few lines of Hjalmar Gullberg: Changing a word or two made it easy to walk. Everyone's meeting should be that way.
i-FF1ti3PeVGy6QJy8X4kihe	Madam President, I would like It is said that it took twelve years of research in everything from old letters to church records, diaries, old newspapers and museum collections as well as a long journey to the United States to talk to descendants and see the buildings and burial sites before the author Vilhelm Moberg began writing one of the most significant Swedish fictional novel suites. The emigrants, if the couple from the Sounders parish in Småland emigrating because of poverty, hunger and religious persecution and on the ship Charlotta cross the Atlantic to North America and finally end up in Minnesota, is a depiction of the 1 1⁄2 million Swedes who during the years 1840– 1910 emigrated from the hopeless existence in the then Sweden to a new, better life. The story of the farmer Karl Oskar from Korpamoen and Kristina from Duvemåla is a timeless work. It does what fiction does to us: It forces us to process questions about ourselves, our own identity, our history, our heritage and our emotional life. Vilhelm Moberg's emigrant series has read almost all the generations. His authorship contributed with one of the 20th century's largest Swedish novelies. And for decades, its importance has been reactivated, not least for Swedish children and young people whose parents have experienced the escape. There is so much, Madam President, in Karl Oskar and Kristina as children with escape experiences see in their parents – their tremendous power to move forward in a new life, but also the homesickness that exists for everything that once was. Madam President, I would like Imagine missing out on fiction — not actually reading books. How incomprehensiblely small does the world become? What happens to one's linguistic ability, one's critical thinking, one's reflections and one's thoughtfulness? Can one relate to truths and falsehoods? Is a lack of understanding created before others? The government's letter on children's and young people's reading, which is the subject of today's debate, compiles the studies available to give an overall picture of the situation of literacy among children and young people in our country. And the development, Madam President, is clear. Of the 15-year-olds in the country, 18% do not reach the basic level of reading comprehension, which is fundamental for continued learning. All studies on school pupils' reading skills show that there are links between pupils' reading skills and the socio-economic status of their families. The school, which has the basic task of compensating for unequal living conditions, is not currently up to the fundamental task. We have a school election that sortes the kids. We have a distribution of resources that is claimed to be fair but segregated. We have a school where resourceful homes can opt out of other children, not least children from resource-weak homes. We have a school that, instead of interacting with students' education, is forced into a competitive situation and competition, and all this is because we have a market thinking in something that should not be a market. When the school is unable to perform one of its most important basic tasks, to compensate for the children's unequal living conditions, an A- and a B-team is created among the children. This will certainly be a long-term problem for Sweden. It is not only about our country's need for skilled labour, but also about the increased risk of more young people failing in school. Reading, which is a basic knowledge for all other learning, has a tremendous impact on the individual's future conditions and life. But there are also, as some here have highlighted, links between the lack of reading and our digital time. A number of international and Swedish studies indicate that young people's lack of reading is about the competition between the book and the screens we constantly use. In a survey by MUCF, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, the proportion of young people aged between 16 and 25 who answer that they read books in their free time every week has halved. It has gone from 60% to just over 30% between 2007 and 2018. The Swedish Media Council's report Young R & Media 2019 shows that the reading of books or newspapers reaches its lowest level ever. In 2012, 23 per cent of all 17 to 18-year-olds read in their free time. The corresponding figure for 2018 is 11 percent. According to the Swedish Publishers' Association, Swedish young people have a strikingly less interest in voluntary reading than young people in other countries. Madam President, I would like It is therefore high time to take a concerted approach to children's and young people's reading. Many of the efforts the government is making are necessary to increase reading interest at an early age and thus increase literacy among the country's students. One successful example is the Reading Lift, which is the largest competence development effort for teachers in literacy and which since 2016 is also aimed at preschool teachers and school librarians. The Government believes that the initiative will continue within the framework of the national school development programmes to achieve long-term sustainability. The investment has so far reached up to 25 percent of the country's teachers, preschool staff and school librarians. Other examples are the state grant for language development in the Swedish preschool, which is now strengthened by another SEK 100 million, and the Swedish Arts Council's reading promotion initiatives, such as Book Start, purchasing support for public and school libraries, support for reading and literature promotion efforts, the initiative Strengthened libraries and support for regional library activities within the framework of the cultural collaboration model. In addition, the Government has introduced the reading-write-count guarantee for early support interventions, made investments in reading in recreation centres, coordinated actors who can promote reading during the reading holidays and now given two new assignments to the Swedish Arts Council: to set up a reading council with the mission to gather and coordinate actors around children's and young people's reading and to implement a reading-promoting lift for public librarians. In addition, a study has been set up on school libraries, which will deliver its final report on 30 June – soon. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to talk about the importance of deep reading, the fictional reading. In the digital era, we are becoming more and more skilled at the superficial reading of information, but increasingly worse at depth reading. And thus we risk losing some of our understanding because we tend to read less dense text. Potentially we lose complexity and perception of content and significance, and we risk limiting ourselves to the superficial meaning of words without accessing all their deeper levels. It is deep reading that gives us a sophisticated ability for critical analysis and the ability to take the perspective of others and that makes man's empathy grow. According to the research, it is precisely when you draw together the critical analysis and empathy that you have the ability to value what is truth. In the long run, this means that if we do not reverse developments in reading comprehension and give young people an increased interest in in-depth reading, we may face democratic problems. The conversation loses its depth, and the critical approach to all digital text mass weakens. Madam President, I would like I want more people to read classics like the Emigrants. And I can only envy the young person who is to enter the world of Karl Oskar and Kristina for the first time. However, for the reading trip to include all children and young people, changes in the school system, as well as skills enhancement, are required. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for all motions to be rejected.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-718	Madam President, I would like As this letter on children's and young people's reading we are debating today in this House says, reading is important. Reading and reading texts are of great importance for both working life and leisure time. It is important for understanding, knowledge and education. Not least, then, it is important that we give children a solid basis for their reading to carry on through life. The school plays an incredibly important role here, with professional teachers who provide support and motivation for the joy of reading and, in the long run, also benefit. Libraries and librarians are of course also important intermediaries and readers. Teachers and librarians are experts in finding what can inspire the child to find interest in reading, reading. Then it is completely unreasonable for politics to decide to produce lists of books that are expected to be read primarily by all schoolchildren. The teachers and librarians already have the knowledge and experience to offer children access to the literary treasures that can lead the particular child further in his or her reading and education. It is with an insight and knowledge of what that child may need in the form of support and concrete tips for literary experiences and with it an opportunity to develop a richer language. The language, yes– it is the key to so much, to new knowledge, insights and new reading experiences, but also to better opportunities to participate in society as a whole and in the democratic dialogue. But then it is important that all children are given this opportunity, regardless of the ability to take on a written text in Swedish. The literature is the bearer of knowledge, of education and of the democratic conversation. But then literature and reading also need to be accessible to all. Therefore, it is incredibly important to have good access to accessible and adapted literature and with a broad knowledge in the profession of different ways and needs to access and absorb good literature. It can be about literature in easy-to-read Swedish, literature in sign language or literature written in Braille. It may be about the possibility for those belonging to a national minority to access literature in the minority language in order to learn, develop and use the language. Even if you have another native language, you need to have the opportunity to develop and use your language. Madam President, I would like I myself have the privilege of chairing the jury of the Study Association Adult School's easy-to-read price. It is an annual prize given to authors and retellers of newly published literature on precisely easy-to-read. It gives me the opportunity to take part of and read large parts of the easy-to-read literature published in Sweden. In this case, we are talking about literature aimed at young adults and adults. In this case, easy-to-read is not a schoolbook text or a text for reading learning. Easy to read can and must also be available and good literature that allows more people to find literature that suits them and their needs. Everyone should be given the opportunity for true reading pleasure. And by paying attention to good, easy - to - read literature, more people also get the chance to experience it. Many people need easy-to-read to understand and assimilate a written text. At the same time, reading experiences of high literary, artistic quality are something that is appreciated by everyone and should be available to more people. As I said, this applies not only to readable literature but, as I mentioned earlier, to literature written in Braille, Sign Language or other language. Madam President, I would like We must not forget or diminish the role and opportunities of parents when it comes to children's reading. The importance of home reading and parents as reading role models cannot be overestimated. But then it is also important that knowledge of accessibility also exists when spreading information about the importance of reading and the role of parents and the opportunity to support their children in reading. If as a parent I find it difficult to take in written text or have not previously had the opportunity to meet the literature in a positive context, wishes and calls to give my child support with this very thing may instead become counterproductive if they are perceived as demands or presented in a way I cannot take on board. There is a risk, then, that, contrary to intentions, the gaps between the aged and already interested parents and those who may be the most important parents to reach will be widened. Instead, strategies must be put in place to reach all parents and not least those who need information and support in adapted ways to close the gap that is otherwise likely to arise between the habitual readers and those who do not have the same habit, knowledge, ability or interest. Here the authorities, the Reading Council, teachers and librarians have a major and important task. It is a task that we in politics must give scope and opportunity to implement, including with training and knowledge acquisition, as well as support and adapted literature of good quality. But there is also a need for support and training for staff in schools, preschools and libraries, for example, on how to understand and meet all parents and guardians. Special efforts on information, knowledge, aids and adapted literature are also needed for parents. This has also been one of the Centre Party's most important issues when it comes to children's and young people's reading. It's about access and the opportunity for everyone to get access to, spread and feel at home in literature but also in other texts, such as facts, news and information that they can take to themselves. It is about everyone's opportunity to participate in our society, to be able to participate and influence as free citizens as well. Madam President, I would like It is a question of democracy and a question of everyone's right and freedom to be a part of our society.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-732	Madam President, I would like There are many positive efforts every day to promote children's reading. It is about preschool educators, teachers, librarians, parents, recreational educators, association leaders and other enthusiasts who in various ways encourage, motivate and encourage the enjoyment of children's reading. Many of us know how important it is for children to be good at reading. It's the key to a great treasure, the literature. As a parent of young children, I get a daily share of the large publication of children's books in Sweden. I get the chance to read exciting, thought-provoking and sad stories with amazing illustrations. But there are also many who lack opportunities and encouragement at home, and unfortunately there are quite a few who do not get the right conditions in school either. This may be due to too large classes, where you do not have time to see all children's needs. There may also be a lack of support for those with learning difficulties. Unfortunately, however, over the years we have also seen examples of how school companies would rather put profits in their own pockets than invest in building a proper school library with the right skills. The government has done a good job in many parts and can show many contributions in the letter. The Left Party, together with the Government, has also made several important efforts during the last term of office to increase access to library activities. The letter mentions, for example, the effort of 105 million to get more school librarians and strengthened libraries, which became a multi-annual reform of 250 million. Unfortunately, the government and its partner parties The Liberals and Centers have now gradually reduced the funding, despite the fact that strengthened libraries have been appreciated and led to opportunities for library activities throughout the country. I see in the budget table that as little as 75 million remains in this venture for the coming years. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to tighten up the regulations around school libraries. It was very positive when, about ten years ago, you wrote into the school law that each school should have a school library. It was a great success, but the school law has not required staffing. Therefore, the activity has continued to limp, and unfortunately it is still so in many places that the school library has not been the fantastic educational resource in school that the research shows it can be. In our draft budget last autumn, we proposed to rapidly increase the number of training places in librarian education so that more school librarians can be added throughout the country. I think that, despite all the efforts, the government has acted a little too slowly in this particular area. It has postponed the issue year after year and referred to long investigations into a rather simple issue that could have been resolved in the past. Madam President, I would like National language councils and campaigns in all honour, but if we want to improve children's reading ability and willingness to read, of course, the school is the best arena to put in efforts. Here you reach all children, and with the right skills and access to an inspiring library environment, more children can have a positive and reading-promoting everyday life. It is also important for us in the Left Party that children who are multilingual should have access to literature in languages other than Swedish. We were worried when the bourgeois government in Stockholm a few years ago changed the conditions for the International Library, and we have asked a question to the minister responsible to ensure that the whole country continues to have good support in communicating books in all the languages of the world. Finally, Madam President, I would like to raise the issue of a cultural cannon. There are a few different concepts, but I still perceive that there are two parties that are pushing the question that our school students should have some kind of list of works to relate to. Every time the question comes up, I am struck by how far from the reality of the classroom you are in the argumentation. Of course, it is already included that today's students will gain knowledge of Swedish literature history and read parts of different Swedish works, as well as works from the world's literary treasure. It is both about gaining an understanding of the development of literature and language through the centuries and about getting a general knowledge of famous works. However, the exact works to be read in the classroom are best determined by the individual teacher, and preferably in collaboration with a school librarian. One might think: Is there a theme that might be particularly suitable for a topical debate? What's happening in society right now? Is it that this particular class is particularly interested in a particular question and can therefore appreciate a specific book? It must be the person who meets the students on a daily basis who can best determine how their reading desire should be awakened. If you don't look at it, a proposal for a cultural cannon can have the opposite effect and actually discourage young people from continuing reading. With those words, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-745	Madam President, I would like I am struck by the fact that both Vasiliki Tsouplaki and previous speakers from other parties cherish the importance of the school and that all students should have equal access to and access to our common literature and our common references. That is exactly what is not the case today. On the issue of the development of a national classic list as part of a cultural cannon at school, I hear Vasiliki Tsouplaki mention that this already exists. But I have been close to the classroom during the preparation of this proposal, which we have been running for several years, and in the light of both my own experience and what today's pupils at both primary and secondary school levels express, I say: You can possibly get a couple of weeks of teaching in a small test map of a single classic – a single piece that has done something special both for our image of Sweden and for the Swedish image abroad and which has placed itself in some kind of national cannon – but there it stops. When we visited Denmark and the Danish Committee on Culture a few years ago, the entire Committee on Culture received a presentation on how this discussion had been raised, taken root and spread joy in the Danish debate many years ago, when the then Minister of Education and Education Bertel Haarder launched the proposal. Cultural policy ended up at the top of the political agenda, and from left to right it was agreed that this was actually a pretty good idea. Today, from left to right – from the Social Democracy to bourgeois parties – they agree that this is something they want to keep in schools, for it gives everyone increased education and increased robustness against prejudice, lack of knowledge and misallocation. So I strongly believe in this idea and want to hear why the Left Party does not do it.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-749	Madam President, I would like Above all, it's because I look at what the reality of school looks like. I myself am a high school teacher, and although I do not teach Swedish, I have many colleagues. I have been hanging out with high school students for many years, and I see the everyday life they find themselves in – the situation they have with a lot of goals to be achieved. When I refer to the fact that this is already going on in school, I look at it based on what course syllabus there is and what course literature you have. This is particularly true of upper secondary school, of which I have experience, but it is also a similar goal in upper secondary school. You can take part of literature history, and you have course literature where parts are taken up – as Aron Emilsson mentions, there are few complete works. But if you look at how much space there is to read whole novels at all in school every day today, you can see that there are not many full books our students take part in, which is a problem in itself. If you then like Aron Emilsson want more works to be included and that you should start from a list, you must also think about what should be removed. In view of all the things that are to be included in school today, you cannot expect students to read a lot of classics in the way they express themselves. That is why I say that I think there is a distance from school reality in this debate. As I said, if children are to be encouraged to read, I believe that it must be done from where they are today, not on the basis of a desire to pass on a cultural heritage or the kind of thoughts expressed by Aron Emilsson. It must be assumed that we will find a way to promote children's interest and motivation to read more. This can be done in different ways, and I do not believe that the way that Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats express is the right way. Instead, it is a question of motivating children and doing so from where they are today – not from a wishful point of view.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-753	Madam President, I would like As far as the right way is concerned, our proposal is that you actually turn to a wide range of people – to the profession in the school world and to student representation, as well as to academia, to decision-makers and to citizens – to identify what you want to be included in such a cannon or classic list. If you look at our idea, which I suggest you do, you can see that there is really nowhere to be expressed that students should read a certain number of whole works or so. Instead, it is a question of a common frame of reference. The more understanding, insight, transparency and knowledge people have about our common history, the safer they become in themselves. They will be safe both in meeting their own identities and in meeting other identities. There is a lot of research evidence for this, and there is nothing to prevent people from learning more rather than less. In today's goals in the curricula, there may be short impact and sampling in a single one, but one never gets an overall picture of what we are losing in Swedish society – the understanding of our general cultural cohesion. What is the Left Party's objection to turning to the wider circle? It is not politicians who are going to produce the proposal, but, as I said, it is all the representatives I mentioned. If you ring the core of this, I think you can awaken an incredibly strong motivation and a great interest in these gold nuggets – these treasures. It is about making a serious effort to create commitment and life around this cultural policy issue, which we cultural politicians are fighting for across party boundaries. If we look, as I said, at the developments in Denmark, we can see that it is behind this from left to right and has even developed the reform with a Danescanon and many more elements. Again, do you think that the left in Denmark has made a mistake that has supported this proposal?
i-0250cf3b633173e2-759	Madam President, I would like This is how I think: It is very important that children and young people get a sense of history, our cultural heritage, the place they live and the situation they find themselves in. They should feel safe in their belongings. These are really important questions. But I do not think that the question of children's willingness to read and to use a culture cannon belongs to it. I understand that children's everyday lives are being used as an instrument, a tool, for something quite different. It's different things, I understand. If we are to have efforts that just create motivation to read, reading pleasure, it is something other than culture cannon. If we want to highlight which books would be interesting for people to take part of, there are reading tips lists, which we heard from Roland Utbolt earlier. It appears on all cultural sites. There are a lot of ways. I do not think there is a need for a national collection of different skills to sit and think about which books are important. Different books are of different importance to different people at different times of life. I don't think adults' perspectives and lists are what is needed at school to get children to read more. I think that the whole debate we have had today shows that there is a great will on the part of all parties to have children read more. Then my view is that we should keep this cultural cannon discussion outside of the reading promotion efforts for children and young people. Then Aron Emilsson and I can talk for a very long time about why it is problematic at all to make this selection, who does not come on the lists and what perspectives to put forward. As for the works that have been important in literature history, I think we're getting a divorce. Even the scientists differ. There are differences of opinion as to who has been the important works, why they are important and why they should be read today. I don't think we're gonna get along there.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-764	Madam President, I would like My daughter Saga is 16 years old, has almond-shaped jeans blue eyes and blond corkscrew lids fluttering in the wind. She literally loves books. You can see her in a bookstore walking and like feeling and reading all the books, books from around the world, choosing with care and then with love come home and say: Mom, now I have bought five books. And then she throws herself at them. She comes out to me sometimes and says: I want to talk about this that I have just read about. She loves to write too. She writes short stories and novels. She's completely engrossed. It is fascinating to read what she has written. I am so happy that my daughter has truly found the joy of reading, in the words, in the opportunity to learn about the outside world. I am so happy that this opportunity exists in our country. Maybe now my daughter's got it from home. She has grown up in a home where there are a lot of books and where we have read since she was little. We hung out at the libraries when she was in the creeps. Madam President, I would like The reading really gives us the opportunity to broaden our horizons, to bump and wet different thoughts and ideas with each other, to step into another part of the world, to enter a science fiction that doesn't exist and let us fly off into a space rocket. It gives us the opportunity to be lost in the beautiful words of poetry. Madam President, I would like It is something incredibly extraordinary to have a book in your hand and see how the pictures play for you. It's kind of fascinating. When you start to think that these are just words that I have in front of me, it becomes very strange. So you go back into it and see this whole painting game that's in your head. We see different things too. Different people experience it in different ways. It is a wonderful world that I wish everyone really had access to. Madam President, I would like That is the case: it is not easy to get that access for all children. That's why it's so important that we invest in having a lot of reading in school, that it should be included in the education to read different works, works from all over the world, works that bump and wet different societal issues. It is important that the school libraries, which I and the Green Party believe should be everywhere, should be staffed, that you can go in there and get help to find the right one. It is important that libraries are available everywhere. I think that everyone who has studied at the university and sat on Carolina Rediviva in Uppsala and studied for the exam has known this incredible community, feeling and space that is just in a large library. It is important that we protect it. It is important that we have libraries as a meeting place where older people can come and meet, meet, discuss and read newspapers. The libraries should be more than just the books in the bookshelf. Madam President, I would like It is also important that we make sure that the Braille is accessible to all, that it is easy to have the opportunity to learn Braille. Many long for it, especially those who need to use Braille. It is also important that there are books in different mother tongues, that there are books in all languages in libraries. Everyone should be able to go in there and feel at home and feel that you are both whole and a lot. It is extremely important in our democratic and multicultural society, a society that is so rich in culture and in different experiences and where everyone can be found as a whole. Madam President, I would like With those words, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report on children's and young people's reading. I hope that everyone will have a long, lovely and sunny summer vacation and get to lie in a hammock somewhere with a book on their stomach or in front of them and just enjoy both the words and the holidays.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-776	Madam President, I would like I'm here in the place of my colleague Ann-Britts-Britt today. I therefore have a little bit of time, but I will try to say what I want to say nuclearly. Making culture accessible is part of Moderates' overall work against growing exclusion. A large part of our focus is on the right of all children and young people to culture, and we give special priority to children and young people from socio-economically vulnerable environments. We see that culture needs to work to reach children and young people from groups who are less aware of different cultural expressions. It is often at a young age that people's interest in culture and artistic creation can best be exploited and stimulated. Living cultural life broadens opportunities for lifelong learning and lifelong learning trips. In this context, libraries play a key role in their cooperation with schools, where all children and young people are present on a daily basis. I am therefore also very proud that we Moderates are investing SEK 70 million extra in children's literature and libraries. No other party invests more in children's and young people's reading than the Moderates. It saddens me a little when I read this letter about children's and young people's reading that we seem to abandon the younger generation when it comes to guiding them into a world of reading. All adults have a responsibility here: staff in preschool, school, recreation centres and libraries, but of course also those closest to the children, i.e. the parents. We look with great concern at the lack of reading ability among children and young people and the fact that fewer and fewer people are doing pleasure reading. According to the Pisa survey, children and young people in Sweden are also more negative to reading than in other countries. We therefore welcome the proposals to increase reading in school. We also agree that both recreation centres and libraries have a great potential to increase the reading ability of children and young people. The Swedish language is the basis for successful schooling. It is therefore important in general in school to strengthen the Swedish language, reading knowledge and knowledge of how to search for facts. A good reading ability is the key to successful schooling and understanding of other school subjects. It creates opportunities for the rest of your life. Language learning is also about the right of all children and young people to know. A good reading ability is the key to successful schooling and understanding of others. Reading can arouse curiosity and invite reflection on both their own identity and those of others. We see that cooperation between preschool, school and recreation centres and libraries is important. The competence of the children's librarian strengthens the language learning of smaller children in various educational ways. Given the rapid development of society and the digitalisation that is taking place, one can also question the requirement for municipalities to provide physical libraries. At the same time, we know that reading and education from an early age are important not least for children and young people in order to succeed well in school. Therefore, it should be investigated how the Library Act can become more flexible, while at the same time promoting reading for children and young people. The Moderates give priority to efforts in libraries to reach children who may not have books at home. One way to do this is to strengthen cooperation between municipal libraries and schools. In times of disinformation and false news, knowledge of source trust is needed. The role of libraries and media and information technology have never been more important than today. A school library is not only a collection of books but also a part of an educational activity with the librarian as the key person. In order to contribute to the achievement of the students' goals, increased access to educated school librarians and better interaction with management and teachers are required. We must be consistent with the fact that children in school have a good foundation in the Swedish language that makes them manage in society in adulthood. It is therefore important that we address this issue, that we are all involved in it and that we invest in the reading of children and young people – preferably more than today. Next time, please vote in favour of Moderate motion! Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to endorse the Moderate reservation 5.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-790	Madam President, I would like We are now debating issues relating to youth policy, and I would particularly like to highlight two important points that we Moderates are prioritising. It is about children and young people living in socio-economic vulnerability, and about children and young people who are at risk of being married off against their will. For us as a society, it is important that we prevent children and young people from drifting or, for that matter, being forced into a life that they themselves have not chosen. Madam President, I would like To make culture available to us Moderates are part of our party's overall work against growing exclusion. A large part of our focus is on the right of all children and young people to culture, and we give special priority to children and young people from socio-economically vulnerable environments. We see that culture has to work to reach children and young people from groups who are less aware of different cultural expressions. It is often at a young age that people's interest in culture and artistic creation can best be exploited and stimulated. Living cultural life broadens the opportunities for lifelong learning and lifelong learning trips. The Youth Board, the current Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society issues, published the report Gift Against Their Will in 2009. It showed that about 70 000 young people in Sweden were worried about not being allowed to choose their own partner or who to marry. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's 2007 Freedom and Family Report also showed that honor-related violence and oppression were the most common reasons why young people are taken care of and placed in sheltered housing. It was about that they were not allowed to choose their own partners and that they were seriously threatened if they did not comply with the family's demands. Starting from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Agency for Youth's now quite old figures and looking at the nationally weighted studies and the local quantitative ones that have been done in Malmö and Stockholm, the average is about 10 per cent of the young people from high school and up to 25 years old. This would mean that 100 000 people are exposed to this by young people alone. In addition to that, adults are also added. According to researcher Astrid Schlytter, there may be up to 240 000 people living with honorary standards in Sweden. That figure is valid for 2017. Madam President, I would like These are pretty hair-traveling tasks. Nineth graders at 13 schools around Uppsala answered a survey on honor related violence and oppression. 46 percent of girls who had stated that they are not allowed to choose their own future partners stated that they are also exposed to physical violence and 61 percent that they are exposed to mental violence at home. The corresponding figures for boys were 36 and 44 per cent respectively. In a project funded by the Swedish National Heritage Fund, the Women's Rights Association has produced a report called Hidden & G hidden – H erd-related violence and oppression against adults with intellectual disabilities. It has been seen that more than one in five adults who have intellectual disabilities and who responded to their survey indicated that they do not choose who to marry. The results of the survey show no statistically significant gender differences. Every fifth professional LSS handler and staff in daily activities has indicated that they know or suspect that there are users who have been subjected to honour violence by a close relative who is at the same time the user's personal assistant or good man. One in five professionals states that they have knowledge or suspicion that users are at risk of being married off against their will. The results show a huge need for an increase in knowledge about honour violence among relevant authorities, LSS activities and individual actors meeting the target group. Under the alliance government, on 1 July 2014, the law against forced marriage came into force. It means that it is not only criminal to force someone to marry but also criminal to pressure someone to marry against their will. Attempts and preparation for forced marriage are also criminalized as well as tricking someone into travelling abroad for the purpose of being married away by force or exploitation. In addition, a new crime, child marriage crime, can cause imprisonment for a maximum of four years. By this crime, it becomes punishable to induce or permit a child to enter into a marriage or marriagelike relationship. In addition, a new special penalty has been introduced which means that if a motive for the crime has been to preserve or restore honour, it should be seen as an aggravating circumstance in assessing the penalty value. Also an exit ban to protect children from being taken abroad for the purpose of entering into child marriage or that genital mutilation has been introduced. An exit ban shall be able to prevent the issuing of passports as well as reasons for withdrawing passports. It must be punishable to remove a child from Sweden in violation of an exit ban. The legislative amendments entered into force on 1 July last year. Consular support for people in need abroad in an honorary or patriarchal context, with a particular focus on child and forced marriages, has been strengthened. All this is, of course, good, but repressive measures are not enough. Preventive work is also needed. Official statistics of the Swedish Crime Prevention Council show that in 2018, 118 cases of forced marriage and 13 cases of misleading forced marriage were reported, one of which was prosecuted. In 2019 71 cases of forced marriage and 19 cases of misleading forced marriage were reported. There are a lot of people who are affected by this. Madam President, I would like There is another group other than those I mentioned earlier which are also affected and which I would like to lift up, and these are LGBTQ people. For them there is a particularly great risk of being married off against their will as this is seen as a way to correct their sexuality, so to speak. Children and young people with intellectual disabilities are also a particularly vulnerable group when it comes to honour-related violence and oppression and child and forced marriages. They are often particularly dependent on the offender or perpetrators and may have other reference frameworks. According to the report Hidden & Forgotten – H erdsrelated violence and oppression against adults with intellectual disabilities from the previously mentioned association Girls' rights in society 21 percent of the participants in daily activities for people with disabilities did not decide for themselves who to marry, and an equal proportion could not have premarital relationships. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland, with its expertise team against honour crimes, has produced a campaign on the new legislation against forced and child marriages. Prior to Christmas holidays 2019, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Swedish National Agency for Education launched a joint advertising campaign against honour repression. The campaign was visible in our big cities and in social media and aimed primarily at young people who are at risk of being detained abroad against their will. Recently, we have also been able to see another public sector advertising campaign in public transport and in public places in the big cities as well as in social media. There's more to it. We need more of the campaigns and more places. It is not only in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö that people are at risk of being affected. Madam President, I would like That is why we believe that, as part of the work to promote human rights and as part of our plan for a stronger Sweden, there is a need for increased information, opinion formation and other preventive work against young people being married off against their will. This includes information and support measures at airports aimed at young people who are about to travel abroad by air. In Sweden, everyone, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability or origin, should be allowed to choose who they marry. For this reason, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 7 from the Moderates.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-810	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 11. It is a right to shape one's own life and participate in social development. The Government's youth policy letter describes how the work on the youth policy objective has been carried out and what the ambitions continue to be. Youth policy concerns many policy areas and is an important perspective in many debates and discussions. Some of the areas related to youth include education, the housing market, the labour market, health and, not least, culture. One of the priority areas of the Youth Policy Action Programme was mental health. Despite this, mental illness among children and young people has steadily increased in recent years. Since 1 January 2020, the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been part of Swedish law. The fundamental principles of the Convention state that all children have the right to life, survival and development. Health, including mental health, is a fundamental pillar of compliance with that principle of the Convention. Culture and leisure for children and young people are important in many respects. Sport, leisure and cultural participation stimulate the development of a child, both mentally and physically. In order to meet youth policy objectives, young people should have access to meaningful and developing leisure activities. Leisure is important for all ages, but young people generally have more leisure time than other age groups and also value their leisure time slightly higher. Leisure activities contribute to personal development and informal learning. It also helps young people to feel a sense of participation in democratic society. About half of young people aged 16 to 25 think they have enough free time. Among 16 - 19 - year - olds, 28 per cent say they have too little leisure time. The government should investigate how more young people should have opportunities for leisure activities. The "Creative School" initiative aims to strengthen the interaction between school and professional cultural life, thus promoting the right of all children and young people to culture and their own creation. The funding for the Creative School has been increased. However, pre-schools are still missing as a target group. The Swedish Democrats also want preschool to be a target group for Creative School. A high-quality education policy is the top priority for a small, export-dependent country like Sweden. To offer Swedish students a good education throughout the education chain is of the utmost importance. Unfortunately, we see that there are a number of problems in order to achieve the objectives set by the government. Among other things, the conditions for studies need to be tightened up. The report shows that too many students feel that they are bullied at school, and in several studies the mess in the classroom is highlighted as a strong negative factor. It is good that the government wants to develop a proposal for a national plan for school work with security and education, but at the same time teachers must also be given all the necessary tools to maintain order in classrooms and in school centres. How young people view their free time and what they do during their free time is associated with their lives. There is a greater risk that young people who feel that they have too little or too much free time are stressed compared to young people who think they have the right amount of free time. The same is true of the proportion of leisure and mental illness. Madam President, I would like Mental ill-health has been a debated issue for a long time, not least in the Nordic cooperation. Mental ill health among young people is one of the biggest public health challenges in the Nordic region. Although the issue has been discussed extensively in various contexts in recent years, there is still stigmatisation and concern about the judgment of the environment if one is affected. It is still in some contexts a taboo subject, which makes it difficult to reach those suffering from mental illness as there may be thoughts and feelings of shame. As long as there is a stigma over the area, the problems will not be fully resolved. Knowledge of different types of mental illness and what it means needs to be highlighted. It should not just be a discussion about the existence of the problems and their need to be addressed. For example, being affected by anxiety, catastrophic thoughts, suicidal thoughts, sleep problems, depression, eating disorders or psychosis is something that must be taken as seriously and treated with the same respect as being affected by physical problems or illness. The National Public Health Survey of the Public Health Authority shows that the highest proportion reporting serious mental stress is among the youngest in the survey, i.e. between 16 and 29 years of age. During 2019, young people visited a doctor in specialised open psychiatry four times as many times as older people. Among women and men aged 16 to 29, 13 percent reported severe anxiety, anxiety, and anxiety. For young women, the proportion has increased significantly, from 8% in 2008 to 18% in 2020. The development is serious and has been so for a long time. One of the most important issues to prioritise in youth policy is mental health, because it affects the whole life of children and young people. It affects study results, association with friends, meaningful leisure activities and, by extension, the individual's development. Personally, I have suffered from mental illness since my teens. It has affected a lot in my life and made dreams and goals more difficult. Grand dreams of the future are among the youth years. When these are taken away from you, you are also deprived of part of life. A meaningful leisure and a meaningful life is a right for children and young people. It is therefore also the duty of society to overcome the enormous problems that exist in this area.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-825	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but I choose to vote in favour of reservation 16 only. Madam President, I would like The youth policy letter, which we are debating this evening, highlights a wide range of policy areas. It goes without saying that young people's opportunities and place in society are influenced by a broad spectrum of policies. Within that spectrum, education policy has a given role. Schooling and education are an important and dominant part of the lives of many young people. School becomes not least important in order to create opportunities in life. It is therefore important that all young people meet on the basis of their circumstances and are given the opportunity and support to grow and develop based on their own dreams of the future. It is often about health, work and not least leisure time. But it is also a question of having a belief in the future, which is both realistic and achievable, and which is based on being involved in shaping the society in which you live. For the Center Party, this applies to all young people, regardless of where they live, if they have a disability and what background and life situation they have in general. We can also read in this letter that a majority of young people in Sweden today have good living conditions and can also be assumed to have the power to shape their lives. But there are differences, and these differences are important to overcome. Madam President, I would like I could comment and discuss each heading and part of this letter, but I feel that time means that I should concentrate on the reservations I have from the discussion in the Committee on Culture. These are reservations based on proposals put forward by the Center Party in a Committee motion from last autumn's general exercise period. The proposals were therefore submitted well before the Youth Policy Letter. But our proposals are still as topical now as they were then. It is important that everyone has access to a wide range of culture throughout the country. Not least, it is vital that all children and young people face many different cultural expressions and expressions, so that they can find their own expressions. It also creates a breeding ground for education to carry along with it through life. Culture, Madam President, is also good for health at large and may be particularly important in these times when upper secondary school has conducted distance education during the pandemic and the near future may feel more uncertain than before. There are therefore several reasons why the focus on Creative School should in the long term be broadened to include upper secondary school. Creative school stimulates creativity and creates meetings with professional cultural creators. It is meetings that can strengthen and stimulate the search for new forms of expression and provide more options. In culture and free society we have the opportunity to understand ourselves and others better. There, too, we can develop through meetings with the unexpected, and we may have different perspectives on our life and society than we had before. Madam President, I would like The opportunity to both take part in culture and create ourselves through digital technology, for example, must be taken advantage of. We also have a successful Swedish industry for, for example, computer games and app development, a creative entrepreneurship that engages many people. We do not know today what new cultural expressions will emerge as technology and creativity continue to develop – perhaps as quickly as today. Even in so-called traditional culture, performances have been developed to fit in the new digital display window. With the coronapandemine, more people have also become accustomed to participating digitally in various types of events. It may also benefit the culture that can be shared entirely digitally. That is why an open public approach is now required, so that young people's activities on the Internet and in the digital world can also receive the support they need and are entitled to. There are many advantages to digital development, but also – we also need to include – some negative aspects, such as when social media or gejming environments for some are at risk of being insecure. This applies not least to girls, we have seen. There are rules about threats and hate, but there are also other types of comments and actions that can hinder young people's freedom of expression and do great harm to the young people who are out there online. Madam President, I would like In this context, the state, through the relevant authorities, needs to contribute to promoting a broad dialogue in society on how to achieve a better dialogue climate online.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-837	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 17. Youth policy with its national objectives includes a large number of issues that are dealt with in the various parliamentary committees. Through an active policy that promotes young people's right to welfare, independence, influence, power and participation in society, the challenges faced by young people can be met. For the Left, it is important that the situation of young people be analysed in everything from labour market policy, housing policy and social issues to crime prevention, to name a few. Although many young people's life situation is good, the letter highlights aspects that we find worrying. Young people's mental health has deteriorated, and the increase in girls' mental illness is particularly alarming. The financial vulnerability of young people is another worrying aspect. One in four young people has a low economic standard and the proportion is twice as high for foreign born. Young people's vulnerability to the housing market is also very worrying. This report does not allow us to include all the proposals needed to achieve national youth policy objectives. Many of our proposals can be found in previous motions from the general period of exercise and in other accompanying motions as well as in our draft budgets. Madam President, I would like We would have liked the government, as in 2013, to have left a bill in the field of youth policy, which could create better conditions for the Riksdag to contribute to, for example, the action plan with ideas and so on. This type of letter, which deals with everything, unfortunately leads to no question being given the attention it deserves. I will therefore focus mainly on the overall issue of young people's ability to influence their situation themselves through organising and political influence. For the Left Party, it is a central democracy issue that our civil society organisations have good conditions to operate. By engaging people in everything from sport and environmental issues to support activities for different groups, non-profit organisations and associations contribute to societal benefit. By offering leisure activities and access to culture and nature, people throughout the country are given opportunities for a richer life. Civil society organisations also contribute to strengthening democracy, both in their role as voice carriers, so that a diversity of experiences, ideas and perceptions is made visible, and as a forum for democratic training in practice. An important part of civil society is the youth movement, which consists of many different types of associations. In this letter, the government notes that the interest in politics is historically high among young people, but at the same time both the youth movement itself and the government in their letter testify to how hatred and threats against young people have increased and ultimately affect young people's involvement. Unfortunately, the government's efforts in this matter are directed only towards elected representatives and not, for example, other members and volunteers. We also see that some groups are more vulnerable and might need extra attention, such as minorities, racialised and LGBTI people. The Left Party believes that there is much that needs to be done, but a first step is that the action plan called the defence of the free word is complemented by a part about civil society. The youth movement has also long pointed out that they are experiencing a shrinking space to act. We see, among other things, a decrease in trust from contributing authorities. This is done, for example, through the suspicion of various organisations and the withdrawal of support at short notice, so that entire organisations lose their funding from one day to the next. Statutes adopted by members in democratic processes and approved by other bodies in the case of adult organisations are rejected when it comes to the organisation of young people. I have highlighted this to the Minister in the past. The youth movement also testifies to the complexity and administrative burden of the grant procedure. This is something that the government did not draw attention to in its letter. We believe that forms, reporting requirements and financial statements need to be designed according to the conditions of non-profit associations. I think that our authorities should be particularly supportive when it comes to the organisation of children and young people. It is extremely important that young people's initiatives and willingness to organise are seen as something positive that should be supported. The attitude of the public at all levels must be to help make things right instead of looking for errors. Madam President, I would like The age of voting rights coincides with the age of government under the current regime. We are all aware of that. This means that not everyone who belongs to the same year will always be allowed to vote in the same election. Those who turn 18 years after the election day do not have the right to vote in the elections but have to wait another four years until the next ordinary election. This is unfortunate, we mean. The political information that pupils receive in upper secondary school given during an election year from teachers, election agencies and political organisations is invaluable. It arouses the interest of the first-time voters and raises awareness of how elections are conducted. That is why we have proposed that the electoral law be amended so that voting rights are valid from the year of its 18th birthday. We see that a further step towards revitalising democracy and giving more opportunities to be active in their local community is reduced voting age in municipal elections. We propose that there should be a trial with a voting age from 16 years in the municipal elections. The main aim is, of course, to take advantage of young people's interest and commitment to politics. It also gives direct influence to the development of society, which is one of the national objectives of youth policy. The Left Party believes that the Government's proposal in the letter to give Statskontoret the task of reviewing the follow-up system for youth policy is good. But we would like to see an addition so that it is clear that youth organisations have a formal role to play in the follow-up when it comes to youth policy. One step could be for the existing Youth Council to be able to represent the youth movement in the follow-up. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to talk about a few other things. There is a motion from us which is included in the report but which does not directly concern the letter from the government. This is about something that we call a cultural lift for the school. We want all children to be guaranteed access to culture. There we see that improvements are needed in the reform of the Creative School, which several speakers here before have mentioned, so that more students are reached. We would also like to see a cultural guarantee so that all children during their schooling can see a certain number of stage performances every academic year. It exists today in some regions. We think it should be the same for all children throughout the country. Today, some children can complete their schooling without coming into contact with a stage performance or a museum visit. It does not agree with the national case of the right of all children to culture. At the same time, we see a great deal of money being invested in cultural budgets at all levels to both the free groups and the public institutions. We just need to go to our neighbour Norway to see how that money could be better spent and organised differently. The state, together with the regions and municipalities, takes responsibility for selecting, communicating and planning tours for the free groups. This makes it easier for individual teachers and also reduces the workload of cultural workers. This has led to increased resource use as cultural operators already receiving public funding can carry out several performances. They go from playing only a few times in their region to performing several hundred times with the same performance through a planned tour. There is really inspiration here for how we can give all children cultural experiences with small means and with openness to a new model of collaboration. There is much more to be said about this. But I see my speaking time is running out. Thank you for today.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-856	Madam President, I would like I'm going to reconnect with Vasiliki Tsouplakis' last phrases here about Norway. There is a lot in Norway that we could follow in Sweden. This applies not least to culture and how, for example, the pandemic and organisers and others have been dealt with when it comes to grants and such things. It's been amazing how they've succeeded. Their great writer Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson once said that Norwegians are a young people who believe and Swedes an old people who doubt. That doesn't sound good. We have some work to do, I think. We consider the youth policy objective set by the Alliance Government seven years ago to be extremely important for the policy's ability to contribute to the participation of young people in society and to the good living conditions of young people. The goal includes young people having good living conditions, the power to shape their lives and influence social development. We welcome the fact that the government has now presented a youth policy letter with an action programme for 2021 – 2024. It's longed for. In order to achieve the youth policy objective, the government mentions some priority areas. We agree that mental health needs to be increased, that social inclusion as well as establishment in the labour market must be increased and that all young people must have meaningful leisure time and participation in the construction of society. We think that much of what the letter refers to is good. However, we Christian Democrats want to present our view of the measures relating to the priority areas. It is gratifying that both alcohol and tobacco consumption among young people continue to decline, as described in the letter. The Christian Democrats believe that it is important for society to take steps to maintain the positive trend of reducing alcohol consumption among young people. Strong alcohol prevention work should be a priority area in a forthcoming ANDTS strategy. At the same time, cannabis use among young people is increasing, and this is worrying. It is also worrying that the proportion of young people experiencing stress, anxiety, anxiety or anxiety with impaired mental well-being increased in 2006– 2018. We therefore agree with what the government states that a priority area to promote progress towards the youth policy objective is to increase mental health among young people. In order to improve mental health, we Christian Democrats want coherent child and youth health care. We propose an enhanced student health and health guarantee and provided funds for it in our alternative to government budgets. There must also be a better transition from child and youth psychiatry to adult psychiatry. I would like to thank Cassandra Sundin for her words on mental illness just now in the speaker's chair. It was honest, and it was touching. We're all vulnerable. This has not least been shown during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats wholeheartedly agree with what the government writes in the letter that all young people should have meaningful leisure time. With the stubbornness of a fool, I therefore highlight the leisure card. That is the Christian Democrats' response to reverse the trend. We have produced the free time card for all children in grades 2 – 9, charged with at least 500 SEK earmarked for participation fees in leadership-led activities in association life or cultural school. It's very concrete. It's a card loaded with money. The amount of support in the card will vary according to the household's finances. We allocate as much as 850 million to this in our budget. The reform means that almost 1 million children will receive support for active and meaningful leisure time. I don't think this is the last time I've raised the issue of the leisure card. I am inspired by the fact that the opposition is approaching me in this regard. I used to have a suggestion for something called leisure money. It didn't go very well with the government side. It was addressed to those who had some connection to social services. There was talk of stigmatization, of the love of general welfare, and of it being shared by all. Now we are there that all children in grades 2 - 9 get a card loaded with 500 crowns. Those who have a financial vulnerability or a social vulnerability in the way that they are linked to the social services receive even more money, as much as $2,400. It was already before the pandemic a challenge to get more young people moving. We know that the Swedish Sports Federation has calculated that during the pandemic, in 2020, there were 6 million fewer occasions than before. There were 6 million fewer participants. We need to switch up in order for young people to experience what is healthy and fun and the community and joy that sports brings. Finally, I would like to highlight an idea that I have received. Now I'll be honest. I'll always be honest, but now I want to tell you that I've got the idea from Anna Sibinska in the Green Party. I think it's so good that I want to mention this. I intend to implement it somehow, at least in my vicinity, in the municipality and so on. It is about generational meetings, where young people meet older people and vice versa. Older people can share experiences and stories. If you listen carefully, you will hear that older people have very many stories that they can share. And young people can describe their reality and share knowledge, faith in the future and hope. Someone may say: No, but older people do not want to spend time with youths, and young people do not want to listen to older ones. But I think it's exactly the opposite. Where different generational meetings have developed, it has become very good. I really want to encourage us to think about the meeting between older people and young people. I think it could enrich society and be like a bridge between generations. I know that Gothenburg, among other things, has had such generational meetings and even a generation choir. I'd like to see more of that in the future. I support all the Christian-Democratic reservations, but for the sake of time, I only call for reservations 1 and 14. Of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to wish my colleagues in the Culture Committee and our fantastic office, the Minister of Culture with the official, the President, the officials, the Bureau and everyone – nobody is forgotten – a relaxing and creative summer.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-875	Madam President, I would like Is there really any time in life that is more vital to a person's life than the years of youth? Ironically, those very years are also an inferno of feelings, thoughts, anxiety, hopes and anxiety and a search for answers to existential questions: Who am I? What is my role in life? And what can I expect from society? In a way, this time in life is very similar to our first years of life. We may no longer need someone to feed us, to put us to bed, or to help us with our clothes. But we need enormous support and a presence of our environment in order not to get lost in the abundance of thoughts and feelings and to make the decisions that help us to move forward. We need to feel that we are ready with the right tools to meet the demands and expectations of adult life and be filled with faith in the future. But what are the different tools, and what is the role of politics in ensuring that those tools are in place? It is this, the youth policy, that we are debating today, Madam President. Youth policy and the goal of youth policy are to ensure that all young people between the ages of 13 and 25 have good living conditions, the power to shape their lives and influence social development. Today, around 1.6 million of Sweden's inhabitants are young people aged 13-25. The role of youth policy is to create the right conditions for these young people to enter adulthood. The government's youth policy letter, which we are discussing today, contains an action plan with more than 100 actions for young people, which will contribute to the achievement of the youth policy objective. There are efforts to increase mental health among young people, to increase social inclusion and establishment in the labour market, to improve the equivalence of schools and to ensure that all young people have meaningful leisure time and are involved in social development. Madam President, I would like In particular, I would like to highlight the need for action to address the increased mental illness among young people. MUCF's latest report, Young today in 2021, shows that 82 percent of young people aged 16 to 24 consider their health to be good. But the proportion of young people who experience anxiety, anxiety or anxiety is high, and it is higher among girls than among boys. Some young people are particularly vulnerable. The pandemic has further contributed to an increase in mental ill health among young people, especially among young people who have had distance training. To meet this negative trend, the government has presented several initiatives to strengthen mental health, psychiatry and suicide prevention. The government has announced a continued strengthening of the investment, with the aim of strengthening mental health, by SEK 1.2 billion. In addition, measures have been taken to shorten queues and improve access to child and youth psychiatry. Madam President, I would like I would now like to focus mainly on this letter, which concerns the responsibilities of the Committee on Culture, namely the part on young people's participation in social development and access to culture and leisure. Madam President, I would like Young people's access to meaningful leisure time is of great importance. Leisure may be seen primarily as a time for relaxation and a time for recreation, but leisure time is also a time when you have a chance to grow outside of school. For many young people, that time may be more crucial to personal development than school. It is a time when one can immerse oneself in one's interest and talent and thus develop. Here politics has a great responsibility, at national level and not least at municipal level. It is a matter of prioritising initiatives in leisure activities, culture, sport and the participation of associations. These are areas which, since 2014, have been a major priority for the Red-Green Government, which has made historic efforts in the various areas of expenditure of the Committee on Culture. Madam President, I would like Young people's influence and participation has been a central part of youth policy since it was created. The same applies to young people's prerequisites for organising. Here are the prerequisites for youth organisations, which enable young people's involvement and provide access to influence, very important. It is therefore welcome that the Government has presented an increase of SEK 50 million in the state grant to children's and young people's organisations in 2021 and 2022. Understanding and seeing the value of one's own participation in democracy early in life is a prerequisite for shaping the democrats of the future. In a living and equal democracy, it is important that all citizens have the knowledge, tools and abilities to be able to actively speak and participate in decision-making processes. The student corps in schools also plays a very important role here. For many young people, student councils and student unions are a first meeting with decision - making congregations. And here many of the leaders of the future are formed. Madam President, I would like I was pleasantly surprised to read that interest in politics among young people is at historically high levels. The proportion of young people who indicate that they are generally interested in policies has increased steadily since the mid-1980s, and there are more trends indicating that young people's influence has been strengthened in recent years. The voting turnout of young people has increased in the parliamentary, municipal and regional elections. On the other hand, it was disappointing to read that the high interest in politics and social development is not so much translated into party political involvement. Here politics and we politicians have a homework to do. The political arena must be able to reflect the composition of society. Madam President, I would like Few policies are as broad as youth policy. It spans several policy areas and sectors and covers areas such as education, work, influence, health, leisure and culture. It is directly crucial for young people's time and future how well these areas work. The youth policy letter is a comprehensive analysis of the situation of young people in Sweden today and gives an overview of how the different policy areas work and what priorities and efforts need to be made to achieve the youth policy objective that was developed in 2014. With these words, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-890	Madam President, I would like Right now, we're the ones standing here. It is we who are middle-aged who sit in Parliament's chambers, perhaps from 25-year-olds up to Barbro Westerholm, who turned 88 yesterday. But it is the young people who will be standing here later. It is the young people and the children who are our future. It is also the young people and children who have had a different time growing up during the pandemic. Therefore, it has been so important in Sweden's strategy to look at the whole public health perspective when we have made our decisions on how to act in the crisis that we find ourselves in. It has been important for us that primary schools have been open so that the children have been able to be in place in school so as not to lose the knowledge that everyone should have with them. It has also been important to ensure that all children have a place to go every day to meet other adults in a situation that may be exposed in the home environment. Now, however, we need to make major follow-up of the outcome. Yet, so many have found themselves in a home - study environment. Upper secondary schools have basically been closed and distance education has been provided. Leisure activities have not been able to continue as usual, but they have been quite limited in their chances of living life to the full. It will therefore be important to look at what we may not have already seen and to follow up on how children and young people have understood the situation. We will need to help and provide extra training. We will have to help catch up with the time lost in a way during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we look at all the elements of our youth strategy to ensure that children and young people are given the right to enter a rich cultural and leisure life. It is important that young people who graduate from high school and college will have access to jobs. Madam President, I would like It is also important that we work with mental illness. We have seen that it has increased among young people. Cassandra Sundin told me about her experiences. Here it is important that we invest more in child and youth psychiatry and also in primary care psychiatry. It should be easy to get help when you need it. It is also important that we listen to children and young people when we look at the future crisis strategy. After all, this pandemic is probably not the only crisis that we are going through, unfortunately not the only pandemic that we will experience. This brings me to a great concern of many children and young people today, and that is the climate threat. It is important that we look to the whole and show our young people and our children that we are committed to limiting climate change so that the future is bright for them too. One important thing is the organisation of children and young people, that children and young people are channeled into the democratic world, take part in the formation of the people, take part in the political parties and make themselves heard in different ways. But there are also certain threats. There are many threats and hatreds in social media, and here we in the adult world really need to come in and do everything we can to show ourselves as role models and put an end to young people being hit hard when it comes to threats and hate. You shouldn't be scared off when you go out in the debate. One should be tagged and want to remain there, because we need all children and young people, everyone in our country, as participants in democracy. Madam President, I would like I am not going to say more about this letter, but I am pleased that the President will say that Amanda Lind, our eminent Minister for Democracy and Youth, will be allowed to go up here in the speaker's chair after me and talk more about the letter and what the government has done so far during this term of office. I would like to thank you for the floor and support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-901	Madam President, I would like Young people today are growing up in the midst of two of the biggest crises in modern times – since the previous climate crisis and in recent years also the Corona crisis, which has affected our society so much. Young people are particularly affected by the effects of crises for various reasons, and I understand that many people are concerned about both their own situation in life and the development of society as a whole. At the same time, there are several positive trends to build on. Today's youth is a healthy, knowledge-thirsty and politically committed generation, and that, my friends, gives hope for the future. It is therefore in a very special time that the government now returns with a letter to the Riksdag about developments in relation to the youth policy objective: that all young people should have good living conditions, the power to shape their lives and influence over social development, as promised in the Youth Policy Bill 2014. The letter shows that in many cases young people have good living conditions but that work remains to be done to achieve the youth policy objective. A large proportion of young people have the power to shape their lives, but there are groups that have significantly worse living conditions than others. Generally speaking, young people in areas with socio-economic challenges often have less growth conditions and life chances than other young people. Young people with disabilities and LGBTQ people are less able to achieve the power to shape their lives. In this letter, the Government presents four new priorities. These include increasing mental health among young people, increasing social inclusion and establishment in the labour market, ensuring meaningful leisure time for all young people and involving all young people in the construction of society. Youth policy spans many policy areas and is by its nature cross-sectoral. It is therefore positive that in the letter we can present an action programme with more than 100 actions for the period 2021 – 2024 showing a wide range of decided and planned actions for the youth group. I am also pleased to hear the commitment that exists here among Members of Parliament to various aspects of youth policy objectives and the measures needed to achieve them. Some areas and issues concern the responsibilities of the Culture Committee, but very much also concerns other committees and the responsibilities of other ministers of government. That is why I am pleased with the broad and in-depth cooperation that has enabled us to present the action programme to Parliament. Madam President, I would like The analysis in the letter shows that self-perceived health among young people is generally better than with other age groups. But, as I said, there are also differences within the youth group which are worrying. There are particular reasons for concern about young people's mental health, which has deteriorated over time. The share of young people who feel stress, anxiety, anxiety or anxiety has increased in recent years. Madam President, I would like The government has made several efforts in this area. This year alone, SEK 2.2 billion is allocated to the work of promoting mental health and counteracting mental illness and suicide. But it will be a challenge for today's young people, whom we, all those in power, need to take very seriously. Madam President, I would like In parallel with the development at individual level, there is also increased concern about social development, not least for the climate threat, racism and the situation in healthcare. We cannot allow today's young people to become a generation marked and abandoned by crises. In the long run, it risks being a threat to our democracy. Young people should feel that politics has solutions to societal problems and that they get and can participate. Trust and belief in the future require participation. Young people need to feel that they are involved in shaping the future and that politics has a place for them. The starting point in the discussion about young people's involvement sometimes seems to be that young people are not so politically interested. At the same time, we know that if something has happened in the last 20 years, it is that the political interest among young people has increased. It is also partly visible in the degree of organization. When I meet various representatives of the youth movement, they often carry with them a frustration that social engagement is sometimes regarded as something unusual among young people today. We know that our youth movement, on the contrary, is filled with young people from all parts of society who gather here and now to make their own and others' everyday lives better. That is why I am pleased, Madam President, that the government has chosen to prioritise the organisation of young people and that, together with our partner parties, we have increased state subsidies for children's and young people's organisations both last year, this year and for the coming years. That, Madam President, strengthens young people's ability to shape their own future, make their voice heard and influence them here and now. Then there are several trends that point to the strengthening of young people's influence in recent years. Voting turnout among young people has increased in parliamentary, municipal and regional elections. But then there are differences between the voting turnouts of different groups. Overall, voting turnout also decreased in the European Parliament elections. An increasing number of young people feel that they are able to influence political decisions, and interest in politics is at historically high levels. At the same time, young people who do not feel able to influence at local level state that a lack of knowledge is an important reason. Deprived groups see less opportunity to influence and also feel that they are less listened to than other young people. That, of course, is not acceptable. The Internet and social media have created increased opportunities for young people to take part in information and opinion formation. At the same time, threats and hatreds are spreading on an increasing scale. The thresholds for participation have been lowered, but the thresholds have also been lowered for those who in various ways want to restrict free speech and scare others into silence. The climate of debate has become tougher, and threats and hatred against young opinion-formers and non-profitists have become a real increasing threat to young people's organisation and civic engagement. It is regrettable that hatred and suspicion often come from adults, sometimes even from elected politicians. In the long term, this risks deterring taking on a mission and contributing to the democratic dialogue. This will, in the long run, be a threat to our democracy. The other week I was able to tell you that we have given the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, a mission to map the quantitative scope of threats and hatreds to civil society organisations. There I see the youth movement and youth organisations as particularly important to highlight. It will be important when we get the re-report to also continue to develop work on the Action Plan: To the defence of the free word and continue to support the organisation of civil society, in particular to make young people's voices possible. No one should be intimidated into silence. Madam President, I would like The analysis in the Youth Policy Letter shows that a large proportion of young people have the power to shape their lives, but there are groups that have significantly worse living conditions than others. Young people in areas with socio-economic challenges are generally less likely to grow up and have life opportunities than other young people. Young people with disabilities and young LGBTQ people are less able to achieve the power to shape their lives. Experiences and experiences of racism also risk affecting young people's living conditions and the power to shape their lives. Madam President, I would like When we start society again after the crisis, we have to take account of the differences. The crisis certainly means opportunities to do things in new ways and build a stronger society than before, but at the same time it risks that old patterns are rather reinforced. This applies in our sports halls, in the classrooms, in the labour market and in politics. We must be vigilant about that. I hope that the youth policy letter will lay a good foundation in the work of building society stronger after the crisis and continue to put forward proposals that strengthen the voice and role of our young people in society and their belief in the future.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-923	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Education and Training 15, which deals with adult education. In view of the current situation with the coronapndemine, it is very much a topical subject. Unfortunately, the need for adult education has increased dramatically in view of the apparent unemployment. The restructuring of the economy that has already begun will escalate and affect the labour market. In a labour market where everything that can be digitised will be digitised, the demands on people to equip themselves with new skills increase. A longer working life with a greater need for skills development and career changes will become the rule rather than the exception. This means that knowledge and skills will become increasingly important as security in the labour market. An important part of the new social contract will be that both companies and the public need to create good pathways to transition in the middle of working life and that workers get used to the idea of changing both their profession and their willingness to change. Madam President, I would like Moderates see the need for a number of changes and measures in adult education. I will lift up some of these. Firstly, university of applied sciences must continue to be reformed. It often meets up to facilitate career changes to the shortage professions. Unfortunately, the qualification requirements often include labour market experience, which excludes large groups. To this end, training providers must be given the opportunity to offer preparatory courses for these people. Secondly, the freedom of choice and the quality of municipal adult education must be increased. The Alliance government set up the Frivux – Freedom of choice in adult education, which presented its report as early as 2008. A reform of freedom of choice based on the Frivux report should be implemented in adult education, where the student should be free to choose to study adult education under local or other government. As far as quality is concerned, the mission of the School Inspectorate must be broadened not only to examine at the level of principals but also at the level of units, as is currently the case at the level of primary and secondary schools. Finally, SFIs must be reformed from scratch. These range from individual performance plans linked to the establishment allowance to significantly increasing the availability of SFI teachers by increasing the number of distance courses. Furthermore, you need to ensure that more higher education institutions with teacher education offer summer courses in Swedish as a second language, and Swedish as a second language should be made a compulsory part of the teacher education. This is how we can increase the number of Swedish teachers for immigrants in a better way. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-929	Madam President, I would like We are discussing adult education, which is an incredibly important form of education. I would like to start by thanking all those who have studied in Komvux and adult education and all the teachers, principals and other staff who have worked hard over the past year, as we have had great concerns with the coronapndemin who have done so throughout our society and not least for those who have had to switch to distance learning and distance learning. Thank you very much for that change! In order for Sweden to meet some of the most important challenges we have, it is important to have education, education throughout life, not least in adult education. We can see when we meet entrepreneurs around the country that there is a great lack of skills and, not least, of educational forms that meet the needs of the labour market – which exist in adult education – and vocational training at upper secondary level that can be given the opportunity to go later in life for transition. Creating more opportunities for people to retrain and further train themselves is a key to the national economy. It is a key for those companies that need skills. It is a key for the public sector, which also needs these skills. Supporting and developing adult education is therefore a key step forward. Madam President, I would like One controversial part of the January Agreement has been the conversion agreement. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to point out, as it will create even better opportunities for people who are in the middle of life and have worked a period of retraining and further training. In this form, adult education in Komvux is a key for many people, many individuals, to enter higher education qualifications, to change careers and to acquire skills in one of the shortage professions – sheet metal workers, nannys, assistant nurses – for which there is a great and urgent need in the labour market. Thus they can work longer and get what a job means, freedom and the opportunity to decide more over their own lives. For the Center Party, the new agreement between the parties and the work under way under the January agreement is a key element in this work, and it is important that it continues. It will also play a major role in ensuring that there are training courses for those individuals who are actually involved so that they can and can take this opportunity for retraining and further training. Madam President, I would like Part of what we are discussing today is Swedish for immigrants, SFI, who have an important function in order for people who come to Sweden to have a good foundation in the Swedish language and thus better opportunities to become active participants in society but also the opportunity to get a job. Strengthening the quality of SFIs is a key to improving these opportunities, not least in the future. A number of parts of this are being worked on within the framework of the January Agreement. Some efforts have also been made within the framework of the January agreement, which I think there is reason to emphasise in today's debate. Most recently in our amending budget, an effort was made to combine Swedish for immigrants with vocational training. It is important to be able to learn the language while learning a profession and thus becoming more employable. Within the recent spring change budget, there is also an effort on experimental activities to improve the possibility of validation so that we can capture the skills and knowledge that people have and they can take on from there. In the past, in all the supplementary amending budgets presented and also in the 2022 budget, there has been a series of efforts in particular at the professional level to increase the number of seats. As I pointed out earlier, it is a key both for the individual and for public employers. Madam President, I would like Many high school students have had a difficult time. Studying in high school during a pandemic has placed great demands on them to take care of education at a distance. I am pleased that, earlier in our presentation of proposals under the January Agreement, which is now also agreed, we were to reduce the fee to have their grades tested at komvux and thereby lower that threshold so that more people could have their grades tested if they wanted to. The fee is reduced from SEK 500 to SEK 150. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has many proposals in the report. There are other parts to highlight, but for time winning I only agree to our reservation number 2.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-944	Madam President, I would like Sweden has come a long way in terms of its view of lifelong learning. It should be possible to return to studies at different times of life in order to train and build on their skills when needed. Some of us will certainly change careers several times during our lives, either because we want to or because we need to change careers for some reason. Whether you are highly educated or low-skilled, no one of a working age should end up in a dead end when it comes to the possibility of improving their situation through education and hard work and realising life dreams. Madam President, I would like Adult education is a great opportunity in this respect. But it now also has an important role to play as a basis for national and regional skills provision. The Christian Democrats welcomed the introduction of regional vocational adult education, which aims to ensure that education at upper secondary level is planned and conducted in collaboration between several municipalities and with the participation of the local working life. I am one of those who would like to emphasise the importance of quality over quantity in adult education, for example. But we really do believe in this with regional vocations and would therefore like to increase the number of places in regional vocations. Madam President, I would like I would now like to focus on the part of adult education dealing with Swedish for immigrants, SFI. There are far too many children in Sweden who have never seen their parents go to work. The adult role models that they needed in the family are often replaced by criminals who recruit children and young people to gangs of young people and organised crime. This will not only result in a shadow society and parallel communities of exclusion but also, in fact, an ethnic and culturally segregated Sweden. It goes without saying that it is dangerous and wrong if people who come to our country already in advance feel doomed to failure and get stuck in these parallel societies. In a society where large groups of people do not speak the same language, trust, security and the sense of belonging will also naturally diminish. Not least does lack of language skills make it very difficult to take part in education and get a job when you come to our country, so language is an incredibly important factor for integration. We Christian Democrats want, when you come as asylum seekers from day one, to be required to participate in teaching Swedish and social information within the framework of an asylum programme. But adult education in the form of SFI is also an extremely important piece of the puzzle for more people to become part of Swedish society and for Sweden as a country to meet the major integration challenge that we face. SFI is currently a mandatory part of the two-year establishment plan, and those who do not participate in the programme may lose their financial compensation. That is a good thing, but unfortunately there is no requirement for you to actually learn the language. After the two years of the establishment programme, just over one third of the new arrivals move on to regular or subsidised work or training. More focus is therefore needed on quality and knowledge within SFI; this is important. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden, like Norway, Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands, should introduce language requirements and conditions for both permanent residence permits and Swedish citizenship. Madam President, I would like In order for as many people as possible to come to their own in the framework of the SFI, it is important that there is a great deal of flexibility in terms of orientations. SFI shall be able to be combined with a traineeship, other education or employment. We Christian Democrats want sfi with vocational training to gradually develop into the main alternative. Professionell vux is a very successful form of education when it comes to teaching both Swedish and professional knowledge. There are much better results there than in SFI education in general. Therefore, all municipalities should also offer this type of combination. Today there are hundreds of shortage jobs in Sweden that new arrivals studying SFI could at the same time be educated to: truck drivers, cleaners, forest workers, painters, masons or floorlayers. There are a great many possibilities. The Christian Democrats had therefore wanted to strengthen the government's contribution to the professional adult by an additional SEK 100 million per year for the years 2021 and 2022. Finally, Madam President, the fact that there are women born abroad who are almost completely isolated from Swedish society is a major problem of integration. New arrivals of women participate to a lesser extent in various preparatory activities. They are later registered with the Swedish Employment Service and start Swedish for immigrants later than men. New arrivals of women and men are also not met with the same expectations and demands to work. The so-called AKKA study has found that newly arrived women, whether refugees or family migrants, are offered less extensive and less relevant labour market measures than newly arrived men. Of course, we cannot have this. We in Sweden need to be better at preparing foreign-born women for work through language studies, social orientation, workplace visits and mentoring programmes. This can be done, for example, within the framework of a mandatory but personalised SFI with a baby. With this in mind, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 12.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-965	Madam President, I would like It's 7.30 p.m., and if it's something that's inspiring to have a debate like this evening, it's adult education, which I've devoted quite a lot of time to, both professionally and now as a politician. It is about every person having the best possible conditions to develop his/her knowledge and skills throughout his/her life. This requires not only a good school for children and young people, but also a well-developed adult education. Municipal adult education is offered as we know in the form of courses at basic and upper secondary level and so of course in the form of Swedish for immigrants, SFI. The number of students in Komvux has increased, not just during the pandemic. In fact, it has increased steadily over the last ten-year period. About 387 000 students are present in Komvux. In particular, I would like to point out that the basic reading group has almost doubled in recent years. This is something of the forgotten group when we talk about municipal adult education. We often talk about Swedish for immigrants, rightly, and we talk about regional professional adult. But the basic level is so important for students to be able to recover school failures and move on to upper secondary level. Many students read remotely; this was a fact even before the coronapndemine. But we know that distance learning in adult education has hit hard on students who study SFI on study path 1 and study path 2, i.e. students who have a limited educational background and may not have tools such as a computer or mobile phone, or connection at home. It has been extremely difficult there. These are the students we need to follow up. Just as we are talking about an education debt in youth school, we need to talk about an education debt even for those students who are studying on sfi and, above all, find ways and give opportunities for these students to come back and pick up what they have missed during the pandemic. The people who studied adult education before the pandemic and who are still there were often people who had a school failure behind them. It is therefore important that adult education becomes the very environment in which people feel that new opportunities are being created and new ways of the future are opening up. Many of these students are in great need of special support. Not least, this is the case for many newly arrived students. There are also many students who suffer from mental illness, for example after long standing away from the labour market. Today, access to pupil health and special support for adult education pupils vary between municipalities. We need to change this so that all municipalities offer student health on komvux based on the needs that exist. Madam President, I would like Adult education needs to be organised in a way that creates the conditions for the best quality. Today, unfortunately, too much time is spent on appeals against LOU contracts, where the actual element of procurement means that the price is being squeezed at the expense of quality in teaching. I cannot say that we are completely blameless in the situation we are in, but we must overcome this. We need to find another way to organise adult education. In the long term, we want to see a national funding model that promotes quality and results, with a much greater focus on pupils' labour market establishment. Madam President, I would like Since the Liberals introduced teacher identification and career services, the teaching staff's salary situation has improved significantly. That's good, but not enough. In order to combat the shortage of teachers and to retain already active teachers, we need to focus even more on improving the working environment and conditions for teachers. This is particularly true in adult education. One aspect that we want to change is the intake of komvux. We want it to happen at fixed times during the year, for example quarterly. We are keen to preserve the role of Komvux in providing flexible education, but as it works today, the mission of schools and, above all, teachers to organise education and structure teaching is made more difficult. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about SFI. To know Swedish – this is something we all agree about here – is about freedom and self-determination. Language gives an empowerment. We also know that Swedish for immigrants must become more flexible and individualised with a clearer progression and with an even clearer labour market link. Not least, more qualified Swedish teachers are needed for immigrants. This is the part of adult education where the number of qualified teachers is the lowest. We are now working within the framework of the January agreement on the conclusions presented by the so-called Kliva investigation last winter. This is a good start, but our assessment is that further work needs to be done to equip newly arrived Swedes as well as it can only for one life in Sweden. A Swedish society should make demands, but we cannot make demands if we do not also provide opportunities to succeed. There is a working teaching in Swedish completely basic. Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for the sake of time, I am only in favour of reservation 9.
i-0250cf3b633173e2-980	Madam President, I would like Today we are once again discussing and debating adult education. I shall begin by calling for the draft decision of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved. I would like to begin my speech by stating that I see a very positive and bright development for adult education throughout the country, not least in view of the rather broad consensus that exists on the need for well-functioning adult education and SFIs throughout the country. It feels very good that way. I think we have a bright future. We now also see that Komvux is growing in both function and importance and will be a crucial piece of the lifelong learning that we all strive for. In this way, Komvux will increasingly be able to meet the needs of the labour market and also provide more opportunities to reach the job they want and realise the goals of their dreams. Madam President, I would like The government is now strengthening the important SFI education in many areas. The idea is that municipalities should have a much clearer language responsibility and that the individual should have an individual plan with clear goals. It will strengthen the opportunities for more people to become self-sufficient and to achieve their goals. There are many interesting motions written on this subject, and even if they do not get approval, many of the ambitions and spirit that they express will become reality. This may include the possibility to study SFI in connection with internships or while you have a job. It is crucial that all new arrivals have access to SFI education as soon as they have arrived in Swedish society. The conditions need to be adapted so that the education is really accessible to everyone. If you are to require knowledge of the Swedish language to be a prerequisite for becoming a citizen, you also need very good opportunities to learn the Swedish language. Madam President, I would like The need for education throughout life has never been clearer than now. We have seen the need for conversion training and replenishment training under the coronapem. This will not change. I am proud and grateful for the fact that the government has invested a great deal of resources in supporting school leaders, regions and municipalities in order to increase the number of educational opportunities for Komvux, vocational adult and polytechnic. It enables people to grow and switch, train and build strong for the future instead of going unemployed. Once the pandemic is over and new jobs come into being, you'll be stronger in the face of the new challenges. Professionals play an important role in enabling the public and business community to take a concerted approach to jobs, education and skills provision based on local and regional needs. The number of sites has grown significantly during the pandemic, not least since the government decided to increase its financial commitment. Where municipalities previously paid 50 per cent, i.e. one municipal place for each state place, the municipality today only needs three sevenths. The support from the government has also been extended, and by previously announcing the size of future contributions, better planning opportunities and more long-term prospects are created. This, we believe, will greatly strengthen the conditions for good and relevant vocational training. Madam President, I would like There are many people in Sweden today whose skills and educations are not taken advantage of. A quality-assured system of supplementary training is needed for people who have a previous education from another country. We need additional training in more areas. We need better validation at more levels and in more professions. When you read about the Government's ambitions and see which studies are set up, you can see that the future assignment for adult education is both interesting and highly relevant. It is becoming increasingly clear that Komvux should be an important player in the Swedish labour market and form a basis for local, regional and national skills provision. Komvux is a crucial instrument for coordinating and balancing skills needs in the Swedish labour market. We need to continue developing adult education for the future. The opportunities to read and supplement grades and knowledge of komvux can still be improved. The labour market will continue to increase the demand to change and transform itself several times in life. More and more jobs require higher education. Then, as a society, we must match this with good opportunities to educate and change. Madam President, I would like The future will require increased cooperation. More municipalities will need to organise their educational efforts at upper secondary level and in adult education together to meet the needs of the labour market and business and to enable people across the country to realise their dreams. We need regional collaboration and dialogue between school leaders, business, trade unions and the public. This is precisely the kind of dialogue we see in areas such as health and social care college and technology college, where we have made investments. There, the needs of the labour market meet the desire to educate people. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to take a local example. Campus in Småland is an activity where I am active. There is collaboration on higher education between three municipalities and a number of higher education institutions and universities. If the proposals and ideas now on the table about better interaction between municipalities and better planning and dimensioning of Komvux and secondary school were to become a reality, it would make a huge difference. Dialogue and contact between different types of training, but also between different actors, would allow for major steps in the supply of regional skills. It would not only create a more coherent planning and dimensioning over time but also far better opportunities for the individual to train and match the jobs available. This is what we need in order to have a functioning education system that meets the needs of lifelong learning throughout the country.
