i-469e455183ac99aa-0	Madam President, I would like Over the next five years, China will move forward the positions in the film field. Great efforts are being made, and it is expected that 50 of the films made over the next five years will reach the top of the world's most expensive films. The aim of the new five-year plan is to strengthen China's cultural power. The party will take the lead in the film. Film producers are expected to produce masterpieces that reflect Chinese values and Chinese aesthetics, and they will promote love and respect for the country. The Chinese leadership has understood the power of culture. Madam President, I would like When you build a road or railway, you control people's travel. There's a better chance of driving the car on the road than driving out into the open, fortunately. The same is true of intellectual infrastructure. If there are only films, books, newspapers, art and theatre that speak the same perspective or that have the same political tendency, there is a risk that everyone will think that way instead of thinking out in the open. The Chinese example is, of course, extreme, but it is no coincidence that authoritarian leaders have at all times taken an interest in culture, the media and civil society. The areas dealt with by the Committee on Culture in this report are, in fact, those that are often attacked only when countries go from being democracies to becoming non-democrats. Media, culture and civil society are at the top of the list of areas that researchers point out that they as authoritarian leaders are beginning to take an interest in when they take the first steps towards dedemocraticisation. We see it in our vicinity, and Sweden is not vaccinated. That is why the Liberals are so committed to the freedom of culture, and that is why we are safeguarding a rich and free society. The intrinsic value of sport and civil society must be safeguarded. Any tendency towards political governance of sport, culture, education and civil society must be combated, wherever the threat comes from. That is also why the Liberals emphasise education. It is by strengthening one's ability to see different perspectives, understand oneself and others and think independently and deepened that man can shape his own life and choose his own path. Madam President, I would like When the pandemic has gradually dropped its grip on the country and we are slowly starting to open up again, we will see that the needs for public support remain very high. A lot has happened during the pandemic that will set a trail for a long time to come, perhaps forever. Already before the pandemic several parts of Swedish cultural life were underfunded. One of the conclusions that we as a country should draw is that it becomes rather poor when concerts are cancelled, writers cannot meet their audience, cinemas and concert halls turn off the lights and museums close the entrance door. Hopefully we see as an effect of this an increased interest in growing as a human being and deepening beyond the pure material pursuits. Madam President, I would like This budget will continue to provide ambitious support for the crisis of culture and sport. That's good. There are important production incentives for the film. That's good. Continued efforts will be made to read. That's good. There are many other things in which the Liberals share the government's assessments and priorities. For a few years we have been negotiating the budget with the government, the then one should be added. This has not happened this year, but much of what is now being done is supported by the Liberals. However, we have a slight deviation. We have a different view of labour market policies and a slightly more simple list of government appropriations, which has implications for this area of expenditure too. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank the former Minister for Culture, Amanda Lind, for her good cooperation, not least on budgetary and pandemic issues. It has been a very special period, and I think most people still agree that when it comes to dealing with the financial implications of the pandemic for culture and sport, Lind has managed to deliver. Thank you for your cooperation on this! I would also like to thank you in particular for the cooperation on reading promotion. An important point in the January agreement was to implement the Reading delegation's proposal. We reached targets, and this budget shows a number of concrete points in the strategy for this. Literature is a unique source of knowledge, understanding and deepening. In a time of lightning-fast changes and superficiality, the book offers a haven for reflection, deepening and tranquillity. Reading and literature must continue to be a high priority in cultural policy. Madam President, I would like I would like to welcome the new Minister of Culture Jeanette Gustafsdotter. She has a hugely important task ahead of her. She will both safeguard freedom and implement freedom reforms and ensure that there will be a re-launch, reconstruction and a long-term force in the fields of culture, sport and civil society. To succeed requires close cooperation with the Riksdag, for this government much more so than for the previous government because it has weaker mandate support in the Riksdag. I look forward to working together. The fact that the government needs to seek support in the Riksdag shows not least this report where a draft budget from the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats gained a hearing, which thus affects and has consequences for the cultural budget. It is true that these are not major anomalies. I think there are good deviations. For example, I welcome efforts to strengthen the Scouts. That is something that the Liberals also had in their alternative budget. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, the state budget for culture and sport has increased sharply. My assessment is that it will have to remain so for a long time. We need a record level for a long time. Firstly, we do not know how the pandemic is developing, and secondly, we do not yet see the full consequences of the pandemic. Restarts are needed, and there is a need for a long-term commitment from the government and parliament, but also from municipalities and regions, that they continue to have a high ambition for public support, but also that they are prepared to try out new funding opportunities and allow private capital on better terms. It is noted that music life is particularly vulnerable. Concerts have been cancelled, organizers have been impoverished and musicians have been forced to re-school to new professions. The government should soon initiate a review and review of the music ecosystem. In this context, one must not, of course, forget the crucial role of folk education in Swedish music life. The pandemic has very likely also changed the conditions for breaking social heritage. Cultural habits are inherited, and a child who grows up in a family and a context where you do not read books has a culturally less rich life than the one who grows up with books. This is a rather difficult thing to do something about. Despite many political efforts at different levels, there are still large differences between municipalities, between schools and between classrooms in what is being done. Often one depends on the fact that at a school there are individual enthusiasts who make sure that students meet culture early and get a structured contact. There, the government should also come back with proposals. We need a structured dialogue between the state, municipalities and regions in order to find out how more children will meet culture early in school. Madam President, I would like To finish where I started: When authoritarian leaders in our surrounding world try to tame culture, govern civil society and use large sporting events to advertise their rulers, Sweden's way must be another, the opposite. We shall safeguard freedom, strengthen artistic freedom and extend the distance between politics and culture, what we sometimes call an arm's length distance. There must be an even longer arm measuring that distance. We will strengthen sports associations and safeguard their own worth. We're supposed to protect civil society. We will safeguard the independence of public services and create good conditions for free media. You win that in the long run. Freedom wins in the long run. In countries where political leaders in their efforts to get everyone to think properly align culture and control the media, freedom will soon stifle creativity. In a world where we need more creativity, freedom is always a long-term winner. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 3.
i-469e455183ac99aa-19	Madam President, I would like The acknowledged belarusian poet Dmitrij Strotsev has written one poem per day since the presidential election in Belarus on 9 August 2020. He publishes the poems on Facebook. Some of the most famous lines have been scanned in the historical protests against the dictatorship. When Strotsev just a few weeks ago received the Swedish PEN Tucholsky Prize, he read some of the resistance poems. The collection of Belarus' overthrow is about the past year – about the time of detention, about hope that has turned into loneliness and about a world where no help is available, but also about the so-called everyday life, about the quiet moments of calm in the midst of the chaos of the war. In Belarus hundreds of journalists and writers are imprisoned. Media is denied accreditation, and cameras are seized. The Minsk Art Palace has been transformed into a witness site with photographs taken of demonstrators who have been subjected to military violence. Contemporary artists document this and call the abuse the regime's art. But in the world of poetry, they call him the dragon. And with dragons it is not possible to speak, writes Strotsev in his poems. One must therefore find a new language, beyond authoritarian ideologies, a language that speaks to man, so that the goal of society becomes man. Madam President, I would like The situation in Belarus may seem remote. But at the award ceremony at Bonniers Konsthall a few weeks ago we received a reminder of how close we really are. It is closer from Stockholm to Minsk than it is to Haparanda. The proximity is perhaps the reminder we need to safeguard the importance of free speech, freedom of expression, democracy and the role of culture in society. For the Belaris, their closeness to us becomes the reminder of the freedom that they fight for every day. Madam President, I would like The past year shows a bleak development of free speech in the world around us. The threats to democracy come not only from authoritarian regimes that strive for cultural uniformity, but also from a digital information climate that spreads on hatred and extremism. Maria Ressa, journalist and recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, has explained the harm that the Facebook online platform has done to her home country the Philippines. In an interview in the book Internet is broken by the authors Karin Pettersson and Martin Gelin says that President Rodrigo Duterte used the platform to organize witch armies that systematically harass journalists and incitement to violence. She says in the book, "They're sitting over there in Silicon Valley and don't see that their business is killing people. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like While poet Dmitrij Strotsev gets spread for her words on Facebook, journalist Maria Ressa gets her life threatened. With the dominant position given to the online platforms, new regulations are needed and a new cultural policy is needed in Sweden. It can no longer be possible for our cultural policy to be conducted without any analysis of, or starting from, the effects of globalisation or digitalisation in this area. In Sweden, this includes the advertising revenue market, which makes it difficult to supply local journalism, streaming services that have low levels of remuneration to art and culture creators, although the whole business model is based on their work, a substantial upgrade of copyright in the digital era and online platforms that must relate to Swedish legislation. I very much look forward to the Social Democratic Minister for Culture's agenda in this area, and I would like to warmly welcome her to work. I also think we're going to have a lot of fun together. Madam President, I would like The past year is marked not only by a decline in freedom of expression and expression, but mainly by the fight against pandemics, which have been restricting and restricting participation for more than a year. All entertainment, leisure and cultural industries in the commercial sector decreased their turnover. Art and culture creators who are completely dependent on revenues from both public and commercial actors have been particularly affected. The committee has played a very important role in pushing for cultural crisis support that has gone to art and culture creators throughout the country, but also to the sports movement and civil society. Like the previous speaker, I would like to thank the outgoing Minister for Culture n Amanda Lind for her efforts, not least during the pandemic. However, I would also like to thank the members of the committee for acting very cooperatively during this time. Of course, I would also like to thank the authorities for the rapid handling of thousands of applications. Crisis support has played a crucial role in ensuring that cultural activities have survived, that art and cultural creators have been able to make a living during this time and that the cultural infrastructure in our country has been maintained. While it is possible to explain these efforts, this does not mean that we do not have challenges. Indeed, the pandemic and its harmful effects are far from over. Titt that is now coming up with various proposals for dealing with how we should act in the current pandemic. Madam President, I would like The subject of today's debate is the cultural budget for the coming year. We in the Social Democrats and the Green Party take our starting point in the need for restarting incentives to secure productions, jobs and skills in the cultural sector. In fact, this is the largest cultural budget that has been put on Parliament's table. We are very proud of the work that has been done. Let me mention some of our priorities. The sports movement will receive additional reinforcements of 400 million in the budget. We develop folk education through more folk high school places. We are strengthening civil society by soon presenting a proposal to introduce democracy conditions for state grants. We have also chosen to prioritise the internationalisation of cultural life by strengthening the international exchange for Swedish art and culture creators with the aim of broadening their geographical area of activity, strengthening their creativity, reaching a larger market and thus increasing their jobs. From an export and investment perspective, cultural and creative industries are an important part of Sweden as a creative and innovative country. One issue I would like to emphasise in particular is that it is a failure to meet the objectives of this year regarding everyone's right to participation and access to culture. This is why we are now increasing our permanent commitment to the cooperation model for increased cultural activities within the regions. We are introducing a new reform for digitisation of cultural heritage, extending the initiative Strengthening libraries and introducing film production incentives for Swedish film recordings. We also set aside funds to strengthen support for national minority languages and the culture of national minorities. Madam President, I would like It may be that I am now extending speaking time, for which I apologise. Nevertheless, I would like to reflect a little on the very many talks I have received in the last week from concerned representatives of the performing arts, public education and civil society who wonder whether the joint proposals of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats for the cultural budget mean a realisation of the proposals contained in the individual parties' movements. I have been able to convey that what is now being proposed is actually a Social Democratic and environmentalist original budget for culture. Otherwise, a merger of the budgets of Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats would mean that the parties have made a turnaround in terms of free admission to state museums, cultural school, strengthened international exchange, efforts for the social conditions of artists, the view of public education and, not least, the sanctuary programme for persecuted art and cultural creators. Unfortunately, Madam President, I suspect that this is not the case. Unfortunately, we now see in quite ordinary order a short-term strategic political opposition game that limits the conditions for us to work long-term now at a time when we really need to do so. The fact that the cultural budget of the opposition is almost identical to the original proposal does not change our view. We are concerned about the direction that has been shown, not least with regard to people's education. We have a Socialist speaker who will go into this further. My impression, moreover, is that in much of cultural life, when you hear from yourself in this way, you share the same concern for such an influence over the cultural budget. In conclusion, Madam President, we Socialists have not taken part in the decision on the budget, and that is why I will not be calling for anything in today's debate. However, I regret the fact that the efforts that are incredibly important for the area of culture are at the expense of extremely important efforts for the climate and investment support for cheap rentals. It is estimated that 23 000 homes cannot be built in Sweden on account of the current budget, and this also applies to several actions that would be needed right now. As it stands in the cultural field, we now have a strong budget. I am pleased that it can continue to be ruled. This means that culture as such will be able to be strengthened in the coming year.
i-469e455183ac99aa-38	Madam President, I would like We moderate record bets on culture and sport in the bourgeois state budget that won over the government's budget bill. You remember the vote last week on Super Wednesday, when so many other things happened. In total, it is about SEK 45 million more than the Government proposes. Annually, we invest SEK 25 million more for efforts against older people's loneliness and SEK 20 million for the government's overlooked Scouts to strengthen and develop children's and young people's activities in the tracks of the pandemic. These are important means of action that will make a difference for both children and the elderly. This is particularly true after a pandemic that has hit these groups in particular in the form of sedentary, reduced association participation and isolation. Madam President, I would like On Tuesday, the new old Social Democratic government took office, or perhaps more frankly, an expeditionist until the next election. In this minority there is a new Minister of Culture who will have to govern the opposition budget. It is a better budget than that proposed in the budget bill by the Social Democrats. However, the Social Democrats and the group leader in the Culture Committee, Mr Redar, are not behind the improved budget. My question, of course, is: why do the Social Democrats not support the efforts that now improve the cultural budget in what we call Category 17?
i-YLCZo6x89k1MGrHNe76fWp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Viktor Wärnick, for the question! Now we're not taking part in the decision. We do not have an alternative draft budget. We believe that it is a budget which, in many respects, originates from the budget presented by the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the then government position. It turns out, too. If you look at the individual motions put forward by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, you can explain a few things. Let me give you a few examples. In the Christian Democrats' individual budget motion, they reduce the funding for general cultural activities by 390 million, theatre, dance and music by 91 million, free artists' activities by 195 million and artists' compensation by 178 million. In Viktor Wärnick's own party's original proposal, they want to reintroduce fees in state museums, minus 67 million. They also want to remove the level of funding currently in place for public education by minus 138 million. If you look at the third party in the background, the Swedish Democrats, you can see that in their proposal they are withdrawing 1 billion in terms of education. They do not want to invest in promoting integration. They want to freeze contributions to religious communities. They want to reduce general film support by over 150 million. Madam President, I would like What is actually being proposed here is the original proposal for a cultural budget for the Social Democrats and the Green Party. That is my answer.
i-469e455183ac99aa-47	Madam President, I would like In the vote last week, the Social Democrats voted against the budget now on the table. What we have now is to distribute the appropriations. In fact, you have voted against the extra SEK 45 million. Lawen Redar won't get away with that despite the rhetoric. What we are hearing is that it is so terrible what is happening with the budget in general. However, in the field of culture in Category 17 there is a strengthening of SEK 45 million annually. What we have come to jointly in the opposition is precisely this. It is a historically large cultural budget, and larger than that government proposed. This suspicion is some kind of election tactic on the part of the Social Democrats. Facit is on Parliament's table. We record the cultural budget, and that is what we are going to vote for here today. My question remains: why are we voting against this, this record bet and this expanded part for the Scouts and efforts against the loneliness of the elderly?
i-R5t236GujnYtqRUiBgbQzz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Viktor Wärnick, for this debate! We Social Democrats generally have nothing against special initiatives for scouting or cultural activities for the elderly. In general, we think this is a good initiative. Now there is no possibility for an additional replica shift. But what I think is interesting is if you have changed your view of free admission in state museums, the view that you have stood and agitated for in recent years. This budget accepts that. What has now been put forward is, in fact, our efforts, the joint proposals of the Social Democrats and the Green Party for cultural measures, which we need to restart. The original proposals for which we have fought during this parliamentary term are also included. It is therefore up to the Moderates to explain how they really think and think about peoples' education and the reform with free admission. Then there are the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats who depart from their original proposals in the budget movements and therefore present in the cooperation something that is very similar to the Social Democratic and Environmental Party cultural agenda. We thank and tick for this!
i-469e455183ac99aa-55	Madam President, I would like Culture and art have their own value. It gives us the tools to explore who we are as human beings but also in what context we are. Culture and art are also an excellent way to social inclusion, to break exclusion and improve integration and to contribute to a Sweden that stays together. Despite these amazing effects, cultural politicians and policies must strictly keep an arm's length away from culture and art and not be tempted to direct content and practice in order to achieve legitimate goals. There, however, Swedish cultural policy is lacking today. The cleavage is here and now and not a distant threat, as some on the left in politics want to assert. On 10 June this year, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis presented the report So free is art. It is a frightening reading of how the public in various ways governs culture and art in a way that should give rise to a sharp reaction and proper renewal of cultural policy. Free art and culture are fundamental elements of our democracy and need to be defended every day. Any tendency to direct and indirect control of these must be curbed. The principle of arm's length must not be just an empty platitude in the solemn speeches. The principle must also be maintained in the day-to-day work of municipalities and regions, but above all at the Ministry of Culture and the state authorities. In the light of the present report, it can be observed that, among other things, state grants interfere with artistic freedom in a number of problematic ways. Questions raised in application forms have guided artists to design their work into ideas and content in certain ways to appease, for example, the Swedish Arts Council and the Film Institute for the payment of state funds. The report also shows, through a survey, that almost half of respondents and cultural creators have at some point adapted their artistic content without, according to them, increasing the artistic quality in order to increase the opportunities for awarding grants. An arm's length distance in rhetoric has become a index finger in practice. Madam President, I would like It is totally unacceptable that it should look like this and that Swedish cultural policy should be allowed to become an instrument for social democrats and environmentalists in an attempt to steer social development. Much can be decided by the Riksdag, through, for example, preparation and decisions on expenditure matters such as this, but with regard to the arm's length principle and its maintenance, the Government and its authorities have a heavy responsibility. A new moderate-led government after the elections this autumn will have to deal with this. The main task of cultural policy must be to provide the conditions for more art and culture to be created and for more art and culture to meet an audience, both physically and digitally. But the content should stay out of politics – with an arm's length. Madam President, I would like The cultural sector has suffered badly during the pandemic. We Moderates have taken a great deal of responsibility in crisis management in recent years by bringing together opposition parties in this House to push the government and make urgent and important decisions. This was the case, for example, in the case of aid to individual traders, which many in the cultural sector actually are. It is a support that we Moderates proposed at the beginning of the pandemic, spring 2020, but which the government returned with proposals for only last winter. For example, it was also about the support of events, which means that cultural and sporting events, thanks to a moderate proposal, now have guarantees to cover 70% of the costs if pandemic developments have stopped or will put an end to the event and make it necessary to cancel. Support for municipalities and regions, short-term lay-offs, conversion aid, shut-down aid if the pandemic law is used – the list can be long where the government has dragged its feet and only got off the ground after moderate initiatives. We are the coalition party in Swedish politics, and we can talk to all the parties in Parliament to get something done. We have done so throughout the Corona crisis. Madam President, I would like While the red-green side, social democrats, center partyists, environmentalists and left-wing parties, have mostly posed threats to each other about what happens if some of them talk to some of them, we have moderates now also, along with the other opposition, negotiated a state budget for which we have received a majority in the Swedish parliament. We get things done by focusing on social problems rather than, like the left hand side, focusing on cooperation problems. In our adopted state budget, we record the important re-launch of culture and sport. We are also investing in Swedish film production by finally introducing production incentives in Sweden too, more than five years after the Riksdag gave the government the opportunity to investigate this urgently. Madam President, I would like The efforts now being made in the field of culture and sport are much needed, and I am proud that we have gathered the opposition to have them decided in this House. Moreover, the state budget currently in force for 2022 contains other important reforms which are not directly linked to this area of expenditure, but which are nevertheless important for culture and sport. We know that one of the first households to do if economic times become harsher or the private economy becomes under pressure is to cut back on cultural consumption and other activities, such as sports. It is therefore important that we re-establish the work line and allow all those who work and have worked to keep more of their own income. It is therefore gratifying that, through our moderate proposals, we are now lowering the income tax for Sweden's low and medium-income recipients. Most people keep about $1,800 more in their wallet each year. It is money that can, for example, be used to exercise or consume culture and sport. But we Moderates like freedom of choice, so we're not going to point out what you can use the money for. So it is not a question of cultural checks. We also lower the petrol and diesel taxes so that people who live outside the city's well-developed public transport and need to use the car can get to football practice, the cinema visit, the book circle and so on. It is a matter of justice – a question of mobility in rural areas too, which also has a major impact on culture and sport. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are the National Coalition Party in Swedish politics that can talk to everyone and cooperate with everyone and make sure that something is done, because we see that this is how we can get Sweden in order. In conclusion, it is good to say that, on behalf of the Moderates, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-469e455183ac99aa-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Viktor Wärnick, for your speech. It was said, if I did not misunderstand it, in the speech that we Social Democrats and others are extremely concerned about the opposition cooperation that is now emerging. I mean, there's probably a reason for that. It is clear that we do not have any major problems with the current budget in the field of culture because it is very much based on the original proposal. Nevertheless, cooperation must be about the policy that you three opposition parties have been pursuing for a long time in the Committee on Culture. I therefore wonder what kind of formulation of cultural policy we have to wait from moderate quarters and how much the Moderates can take responsibility for in a common basis together with the Swedish Democrats. I mentioned in the previous shift that, for the Swedish Democrats, it is a fundamentally different cultural policy that has been pursued for a very long time. You can refer to the budget appropriations available, and I can give you a few examples, but above all it is a question of culture and society. My view has long been that the Moderates have strongly dissociated themselves from the cultural and social views of the Swedish democrats. Is there anything we can expect from the Moderates in this cooperation?
i-469e455183ac99aa-81	Madam President, I would like Valretorics seem to be continuing. Moderate politics is very clear. Just read our committee movements in the field of cultural policy. It is just to read our spending area motion, where we also map out our budget priorities. However, it is also simply reading the report and the majority text, in which we have negotiated with the opposition the cultural budget that will apply next year. It contains record investments on restarting, on production incentives and on other things. This I think is becoming like a crisp and raspy record that continues and will surely continue so right up to the election. It's about the suspicion from the left side of what's going to happen. Therefore, it is on Parliament's table today for what happens when we have worked together on the budget. But we have eight different parties in the Swedish Parliament. There are eight different parties that think differently in these parts. What we have done now is to bring together the opposition for this budget. You say that the Moderates in various areas would have a policy that is harmful to Sweden, harmful to culture, harmful to the media and so on. That is how it has sounded, and that is certainly how it will continue to sound. But I can guarantee that this is not the case. It is simply to read our proposals rather than suspect in this way. These statements also come from the Group leader of the Social Democrats in the Committee on Culture, which belongs to the party whose government now constitutes the weakest government since Ola Ullsten. It is a government whose cooperation parties only agree on one thing: not being able to talk to everyone, but laying down conditions with which to talk. That is not the policy we intend to pursue. We intend to gather the parties that want to join in order to get order on Sweden. I think you should read our proposals before you speak and try to suspect.
i-469e455183ac99aa-87	Madam President, I would like I didn't get a single word to answer my question. The question was not about who you talk to or who you don't talk to or about some kind of social culture view of the Moderates. I asked about the cooperation and the basis of the cooperation. Cooperation is not just about dialogue, it is about the political content of what is being presented. I have read the draft budget properly because it is very much in line with what the Social Democrats, in cooperation with the Green Party, have put forward in the draft budget, apart from the EUR 45 million relating to the Scout Movement and efforts for older people's access to culture. When the Social Democrats have collaborated with the Green Party, that is what you get. There are no severe restrictions or completely different cultural views in society, i.e. the closure of Young Klara, 16 million in reduction in terms of dance and theatre, 30 million in reductions in literature and magazines and 135 million in reductions in compensation and contributions to artists when they need it most and so on. Nor is it that peoples are basically seeking to abolish their education. What will cooperation mean politically? That was my question.
i-469e455183ac99aa-91	Madam President, I would like So what Mr Redar is now addressing is not moderate politics. I represent the Moderates. Our policies can be read in our committee movements. We do not have the proposals raised by Lawen Redar. Suspecting continues. We are trying to ensure that it is our policy that is being presented, and so it is not. The budget now presented is negotiated with several parties. That's the truth. There is a difference of mandate in this House. Then you have to be able to talk to everyone. We've done this. We have presented a state budget that has the whole in place. I can only say that, with regard to what I mentioned in my speech on the principle of arm's length, there is a clear and real dividing line in Swedish politics between Lawen Redar and me. What the Social Democrats are presenting is often an instrumental view of politics. Rather, you should maintain arm's length, and we will keep an eye on that for the rest of your term of office.
i-469e455183ac99aa-94	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Culture has a central place in life, politics and the construction of society. For us Swedish democrats, it is obvious that Sweden, like all other countries, is unique and that Swedish culture is unique and well worth preserving and highlighting. It is particularly important to highlight the importance of Swedish culture for the peaceful, democratic and solidarity-based welfare society in which we live. Our common cultural culture on a proven and historical basis in the country is much older than the politicised and segregated multicultural building in Sweden. This is something that is becoming increasingly clear to more and more people in Sweden. A growing proportion of the population realizes that many of society's major problems are springing from the cultural clashes that some other parties have decided to expose the country to. To advocate multiculturalism is not to understand the role of culture in society and the full purpose of cultural policy. Representatives from other parties have advocated multiculturalism by praising examples of cultural phenomena or experiences, as if cultural experiences existed only within the range of cultural experiences. It's a bit like thinking you had an authentic encounter with another culture during the charter trip in another country. It will be a corrected picture that ignores the real cultural clashes and the conflicts they can lead to. Madam President, I would like This is based on an imbalance in the focus of cultural policy in recent years. Cultural policy has gone from developing in collaboration with education policy to dealing only with these cultural experiences, i.e. theatre, dance, opera, literature, film and more. It has been an almost one-sided focus on the humanist cultural concept and a lack of understanding or interest in the anthropological concept of culture. In order to understand culture, both concepts of culture must be taken into account. This incomprehension of the anthropological concept of culture is most clearly portrayed by the denial of the culture of its own population. There are still groupings in society, and also in this House, which deny the existence of Swedish culture. This is nothing more than a denial of one's own identity, which also means denying the opportunity for those who want to become part of Swedish society to understand Swedish culture. This is an attitude that effectively locks out the people that multiculturalists claim to want to help. The result of this attitude is now seen in the growing number of exclusion areas. Madam President, I would like As I said, it goes without saying that Sweden has a unique culture and that it is of crucial importance to our society. Therefore, in our own field of expenditure motion, we have a call for new objectives for cultural policy, objectives that clarify the role of Swedish culture and its importance for the cohesion of our society. The basis of cultural policy is the Swedish culture and the cohesion it provides, and on the basis of these objectives the Swedish democratic cultural budget is built up. For Sweden, we see it as more important than for a long time to gather around common norms and values, traditions, customs and practices to stay together. This is particularly important in a society with solidarity-funded welfare, precisely because the solidarity that sustains the system is based on a common identity and a strong sense of community. Our cultural policy objectives, together with our motion on the development of a cultural cannon, will generate a foundation in which cultural policy becomes the engine that brings society together – a society where citizens feel community through their belonging to society and each other, community between city and countryside, between different political views, between rich and poor, and between old and young. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, in recent years national cultural policy has taken an increasingly authoritarian course in our view. The debate has been marked by dishonesty. We have been accused of wanting to restrict the freedom of free art, while the government has made media and free artists increasingly dependent on conditional financial subsidies from the state. The fact that free art is not free could be confirmed by the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis in June this year, but that this was the case has been easily explained by the government's cultural policy. The pattern emerges clearly in everything from the nationalisation of film policy to the increased state support for free art and the use of civil society for their own political purposes. Both sport and education were given integration assignments when the multicultural project began to fall. Film and art would be steered in an identity policy direction, with representation requirements for public support. We Swedish democrats do not believe that external irrelevant criteria such as skin colour represent different perspectives and inner qualities. We Swedish democrats strive for cultural policy to promote Swedish culture and cohesion but also to adopt a more neutral relationship with various irrelevant criteria such as skin colour or sexual orientation. This will be reflected in the future cultural policy budget. In our Sweden, no one should be assessed and part of state resources based on these irrelevant criteria, as they are irrelevant for the quality of projects. We also safeguard the independence of contemporary culture by facilitating forms of funding other than public funds, while at the same time strengthening the opportunities for contemporary art to stand on its own feet. Because even if parts of free contemporary art have a difficult economic situation, free contemporary art is no longer free if it becomes economically dependent on public actors. A balance must be achieved here, but the aim should be not, as far as possible, to link free contemporary artists economically to political power. Arm length is important. At the same time, we will promote the parts of Swedish culture that we all have in common: the cultural heritage, the society we inherited from previous generations, the society we live in today, whether we are born here or not. It is a culture with a curiosity about other cultures, innovations and new ideas but which is confident in its own identity. We Swedish democrats also see a need to introduce further national objectives in the field of architecture policy. It would be useful to introduce a goal that clarifies the importance of long-termism with a focus on aesthetic sustainability and timelessness in new constructions, something that has been overlooked for several decades and so on today. Our common habitat is central to the well-being of society, the feeling that this is our home and here we can feel peace, pleasure and security. Beauty values are important, and there must be a policy of promoting environments based on citizens' wishes and interests. I also agree with what Christer Nylander said earlier that there is a need for continued support for cultural life even after the pandemic. It is important that we continue to have a free and vibrant cultural life in Sweden.
i-469e455183ac99aa-111	Madam President, I would like I found it interesting with the reasoning in Bo Broman's opening statement on the concept of multiculturalism. I would very much like him to explain how you view that concept. Is Sweden a multicultural society or not?
i-469e455183ac99aa-112	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a multicultural society today. We have no problem with that concept. On the other hand, we believe that the sense of cohesion in Sweden and the knowledge of Swedish culture must become much stronger. After all, it is culture that builds a country. Borders can be moved, but it is culture that creates community. Multiculture is not wrong, but it requires that we recognise that we also have a culture, that we do not look down on our own culture but want to promote all cultures. That is a little bit why we want to change the objectives of cultural policy. For example, we want to promote cultural heritage conservation efforts. We want to support projects aimed at the preservation of cultural heritage and national identity, thus increasing the cohesion of society. We have suggested, for example, that we want to weave together the cultural sector with community building and regional development and growth. We have many suggestions for how we can strengthen Swedish culture precisely so that we can have a multicultural culture in Sweden.
i-469e455183ac99aa-115	Madam President, I would like I was up here in the speaker's chair earlier and spoke to the representatives of the Moderates about the culture view of the Swedish Democrats. That's when they talked in third parties, and it didn't get good enough. But now I got the chance to ask my question to the Swedish Democrats. Of course, we have a common culture – we who live and work in Sweden. We shall also have great respect for Swedish cultural heritage and a great commitment to the difference in culture between city and country and between different ethnic groups and indigenous peoples. But it is clear that we can all have a country where there is multiculturalism but where we operate under the same political unity that promotes what we have today: a welfare state where everyone is paying together to promote each other in the form of solidarity. It is incredibly important when you talk about culture that you affirm that we live in a multicultural society with great respect for each other and also with respect for democratic rights and freedoms, but also with obligations that we have as citizens of this country. Many times I feel that the Swedish Democrats fundamentally do not respect that kind of position.
i-469e455183ac99aa-118	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats think that culture should connect Sweden – the past with the present and the future. We shall manage the country's history and heritage, promote the community and cohesion and safeguard national identity. It is with these aspects in mind – the intrinsic value of culture for us people as cultural beings, the concern for our heritage and the role of culture for society, the individual quality of life and the conditions of the labour market – that we propose that the current national objectives of cultural policy be abolished and that we introduce new ones. We have different views on culture, and everyone who stands up for democracy should admit that it is good to have different views on things. We will continue to fight for our view of culture and to get through our proposals for cultural policy objectives.
i-469e455183ac99aa-120	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party refrains from taking a position on the budgetary decision and instead presents its considerations in a separate opinion. Part of these considerations will now be highlighted. Expenditure area 17 Culture, media, religious communities and leisure is a b ret area. Although it is a historically large budget, this is not the biggest item of government expenditure. But it plays a big role for people throughout our country every day. It matters to individuals. It plays a role in which society we want to build. What climate should we have in our conversations? How do we strengthen our common democracy and participation for all? Culture plays a major role there. There are many different parts in this area, and I will not, as I know right now, mention everyone, but I will focus on sport, culture, education and the media, especially public service. Madam President, I would like Every day, 145,000 children and young people attend their sports training. And for that to work, there are 800,000 leaders who receive. It's an amazing people's movement. Leaders make a major contribution to both public health and the preservation and development of democracy. In the vast majority of cases, with a few exceptions, this is done entirely on a voluntary basis. The National Sports Federation has estimated that replacing leaders with a leisure leader's salary would cost 20 billion. Every invested crown in the sports movement gives many times back to society. Sports associations exist throughout the country, in every village, and they play a role. Who are the causes of Midsummer celebrations and summer dances? It feels far away today, but soon we will be there again. When it's time for the last-April-kas, it's often the sports club out in every village, you might say, that arranges this. Sometimes they do so individually and sometimes in cooperation with, for example, the local community. This creates added value throughout the country. To be in a union is to learn all your life. Many have tried to put on leadership for the first time in a sports association. Young people learn to take responsibility early, and it is important for others to come to practice or to represent their club at a competition. When you get up a little bit in your teens, you take care of the beginners. It's fun for those who get the assignment, and the beginners really have someone to look up to. When it comes to sport, it is so easy and obvious to talk about the breadth that provides the conditions for us to have an elite. We should do this in more areas of culture. Unfortunately, we know that people with disabilities do less sport than others. Therefore, an investigation should be set up with the aim of identifying obstacles to persons with disabilities and measures that facilitate practice and competition in parasports. We in the Center Party believe in the power of people, together with others, to bring added value both for themselves and for their homeland, wherever it is now. The pandemic, as several have said and as we are embarrassingly aware, has been an extremely hard test for the cultural sector. We have listened to the testimony of a number of professionals about what they have faced and what they are in right now. From crisis to power is Linda Zachrison's investigation where a number of cultural practitioners are interviewed in an exemplary way about suggestions and ideas on what is needed and what can be done because different industries need different tools to restart. In the study there are about 40 proposals divided into nine areas. I hope that Minister Gustafsdotter will take full advantage of this in order for us to get the real start that both we as viewers and, of course, the cultural industry so badly needs. Madam President, I would like If we add together the study circles of the study associations, other adult education activities and the long courses of the folk high school, we can see that they gathered 900 000 people in 2020. This is a decrease of more than 300 000 participants compared to the year before the pandemic broke out. The study associations have changed and taken a substantial digital step. Watercolour courses have been carried out via a link, which in turn has meant that the number of participants has been increased, to take an example. The study associations offer circular activities in all municipalities in the country. The long courses of folk high schools are available in 151 municipalities. The interaction of education with civil society involves thousands of organisations. We celebrate the 100 years of democracy, and we draw attention to it in various ways from here in Parliament, but it is not possible to round the central importance of folk high schools and study associations for the development of democracy. Democracy is not something that arises from nothing, but we create it together through dialogue and commitment. With its breadth, diversity and geographical spread, peoples' education plays a crucial role in protecting and developing Swedish democracy by creating meetings between people and promoting learning and dialogue. The student association The chairman of the adult school Ulrika Heie usually says: The student associations have the infrastructure. When it needs training, we'll be there. In terms of media and public services, we have seen during the pandemic the importance of a public service that is redeployed, that adapts the range of programmes and that ensures that public authority information is made available to the public. That is why it is important to ensure the public's ability to reach public services every day, both in everyday life and in crisis. It is therefore of great importance that we protect and develop the independence of public services. Madam President, I would like I note that we must be careful here. Increasingly, advances are being made towards controlling both content and supply. For the Center Party, it is a fundamental attitude to safeguard and develop the independence of public services. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that whatever area I have addressed in this debate – sport, public education, the media or culture – is common to them that it is of the utmost importance for them to develop and pursue their activities without political pointers. They're supposed to be free. Politics should keep at least arm's length. That has also been said by previous speakers. I am very pleased to hear it from the speaker's seat. That is consistent with the policy of the Center Party. We believe in man's power to decide, solve things and get something done.
i-469e455183ac99aa-138	Madam President, I would like The Left Party's draft budget for Category 17 includes a total of EUR 642 million in addition to the Government's proposal. This means around 600 million more than in the budget from M, KD and SD. That is why today we are abstaining from taking part in the decision on the content of the budget and we support the committee's proposals in the other parts. In my speech today, I will focus on those parts where the Left Party stands out, where we make extra efforts. Unfortunately, I will not have time to mention all the important areas included in Category 17. Members, speakers and Madam President! When we stood here a year ago debating the budget, we were in a period of very high rates of infection and recommendations to refrain from most things in life that were not necessary. Now the situation looks better. A large proportion have been vaccinated twice, and many older people are now offered a third syringe. So we have other opportunities to open up society. But in the morning we were told that there is a risk of renewed restrictions and that the rates of infection are rising again. It's very troubling. However, my hope is that we can find a way forward to keep the cultural institutions open and for people to find their way back there. The signals from the industry are that the audience has not really come back yet, to the way it was before the pandemic. This may be due to uncertainty about conditions for cancellations, a feeling of insecurity with the spread of infection, or simply changing your routines during the pandemic; you have got used to visiting public events. Regardless of individual causes, it is important that policies support this start-up phase. Few cultural actors have any reserves left to talk about, and if you are to risk standing there with half-empty salons, there may be a need for continued public support. During the pandemic, the Left Party has advocated substantial support for culture and sport. There has also been a broad consensus in committee. I'm grateful for that. When it comes to non-profit cultural life and other parts of society, it has been a little more cheap from the government. For example, active workers fell in craft and crafts between the chairs last year. The organisations of outdoor life would also need to be strengthened. In the past, I have also raised the issue of the crisis economy of folk high schools with the minister responsible. Madam President, I would like In this year's budget there are many good and substantial efforts from the government, but it is still unclear what the big pot of 745 million for restarting should go to. We have therefore, in our draft budget, prioritised efforts that we see need for the long term and that were needed even before the pandemic. For the Left Party, safety at work is such an important issue. The number of permanent jobs in the cultural sector has fallen considerably in recent years. This was a very clear trend even before the pandemic. Many have been outside the regulations and have received low remuneration from Försäkringskassan. On the basis of these special circumstances, the cultural alliances were created as a third form of employment. For them, we now set aside 45 million extra to ensure that they can bring in more applicants. There are many who qualify for the alliances. Another important area in which we believe the government has not invested enough is the cultural heritage. The millions that have been set aside do not go far. It is clear that more needs to be done to preserve cultural heritage. The Left Party sees that it is urgent to start large-scale digitalisation, for accessibility and to get there before material is destroyed. We are therefore proposing a three-year project of 65 million to launch. In fact, it is really urgent with some of the newer material in technical format that is no longer used, such as films and sounds from the last century. There are machines and skills soon not available to preserve it. Our draft budget also provides resources for better management of all archaeological material generated by more construction projects starting around the country. The county museums don't have the capacity to receive everything. National efforts are needed there. The county administrative boards also receive more resources for the conservation of the cultural environment. For us, it is also important that the cultural heritage of national minorities is properly taken care of. A little lubricant may be needed to get the recovery, repatriation, of Sami objects and remains started. We set aside funds so that those who are to receive will have a good opportunity to do so. We also want to see an effort to develop and preserve knowledge about the living conditions and living places of Roma and travellers. Regardless of what the Swedish Democrats claim, we have always had multiculturalism in our country. Sweden has been a nation where the cultures of certain groups have been suppressed and where assimilation efforts were carried out for a long time. It has deprived our minorities of their language and culture. We need to make an effort here today. Madam President, I would like I would like to draw the attention of the audience to the fact that we are making efforts on cultural heritage without flinching support for today's artists. When I see how Sweden Democrats prioritise making cultural heritage efforts, I see that they do so at the expense of contemporary art. I believe that it is a balance that is made from the outside, above all, taste and taste, not because there is no money in their budget. The representatives of the Swedish Democrats at various political levels have expressed a fondness for historical aesthetic expressions in architecture and art and a suspicion of more modern forms of expression. In their budget they do not really write that way. They justify the cuts in modern contemporary art by promoting other sources of funding. That's nice. But we must ensure that this kind of romanticisation of cultural heritage does not influence Swedish cultural policy. Otherwise, we are actually risking the future cultural heritage, which should be the mark of our time in cultural history. Madam President, I would like We also think that more needs to be done to reach out with culture throughout the country in a different way. There, the non-profit cultural organisations are important actors, both as organisers of performances with professional performing arts and as actors with their own participation. We therefore want to increase long-term support for the non-profit cultural associations and make a targeted effort of 15 million to bring about culture in especially small towns, like the project "Culture capillaries" that were successful during the pandemic. The existence of assembly facilities throughout the country is a prerequisite. We therefore want to increase the remuneration of associations that provide premises. Often there is a community farm or a Folkets Hus that makes it possible for cinema, theatre or association meetings that develop local democracy. We also provide support for developing activities of this kind for young people in associations' premises. Madam President, I would like Our budget also includes, of course, an effort to remove fees to the cultural school and to extend the free admission reform to the Technical Museum. These are old, well-known bets. Lowering thresholds to give more children access to culture is a left-wing parade, if I may say so myself. New for this term of office is our goal of introducing a cultural boost for schools. This is where you can reach all children, and so we want to see a more structured work at school with a national guarantee that all children will have two performing arts performances per academic year. We can finally get closer to the national objective of paying particular attention to children's and young people's right to culture. Finally, I would like to say that the Left Party would have liked to see an increase in the contribution to the associations of outdoor life. In fact, I was surprised that it was not included in the KD, SD and M budget that won the vote last week, because all three parties had it in their respective proposals. Unfortunately, there were only fine words on paper. I hope that in the future we can have an impact on more of our ideas and welcome the new Minister for Culture to cooperate and talk with us in the Committee on Culture.
i-469e455183ac99aa-159	Madam President, I would like Last year, this time was marked by darkness – not only literally, because darkness is nothing strange for this season, but all the more from the figurative perspective. Then it was cold and shaky. The audience restriction was eight people, and virtually all cultural public activities were closed down. In this figurative darkness we had already lived for more than six months. It was gloomy. Since then, we have fought, worked and gnetted to strengthen and safeguard culture in the historical crisis we have been through and are still in. One crisis package after another has been launched, and our former Minister for Culture Amanda Lind had a close and intense dialogue with cultural actors. On September 20, the audience restrictions finally disappeared for this time, which was a collective message of joy for all of us who care about culture. The saloons were filled up, just as it should be. As we have longed! Now we are seeing another worrying development in the world around us, and it cannot be ruled out that the spread of infection is taking off again here at home too. As a measure from yesterday, all events that gather more than 100 people need to use vaccination certificates. Now we are in a situation that cannot be described as complete darkness and pessimism, but neither is it characterized by relief, enthusiasm or confidence. We are in a mood of pending and preparedness for a possible more serious situation. But readiness is good. The actors of culture have been preparing for this for a long time and are ready to take even greater responsibility for enabling culture in a secure way. Madam President, I would like Let me make a brief exposé of the tough time we've been through. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Green Party in the government has worked very actively and intensively to develop support packages for cultural life and its actors. There have been extensive measures aimed at industry, independent operators and individual traders. These have been measures that have been of great benefit to cultural operators. I am proud of the support packages specifically targeted at the cultural sector, institutions, free cultural life, individual artists and creators of culture, regions and much more. This has amounted to a total of EUR 2.5 billion for 2020 and EUR 3.7 billion for 2021. There is extensive and unprecedented support. However, these comprehensive support packages were needed in view of the depth, extent and length of the crisis of culture. An important piece of the puzzle is the re-launch investigation report from crisis to force, which contains several important proposals for the restoration of culture in the short and long term. Madam President, I would like Sweden's cultural life will emerge stronger from the crisis. The budget bill put on Parliament's table by the Social Democrats and the Green Party means that an extra 1.3 billion will be invested in the culture of 2022. I note that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats' proposals for allocation of appropriations in Category 17 broadly follow our draft budget. Most of it goes to investments in the re-launch of culture. It is a comprehensive recovery package of SEK 940 million for 2022 that strengthens, among other things, free cultural life, film and artists' conditions. A total of 775 million will be allocated to support the cultural sector in order to contribute to recovery, secure production, contribute to digitisation, promote children's and young people's culture and preserve skills in the sector. Within the framework of this incentive support, which is distributed by the Swedish Arts Council, many of the proposals of the Restart investigation can be taken care of. Within this effort, we also strengthen the internationalisation of cultural life and promote the language and culture of national minorities. But culture is nothing without those who create and convey art and culture. It is in the free cultural sector that artistic innovations arise that push the boundaries, change and develop art and create new forms of expression. However, as we all know, individual artists and cultural creators have been hit very hard during the pandemic. Cultural events were the first to be cancelled, and the individual cultural creators lost their assignments and thus their income, based on a position that was extremely uncertain from the outset with irregular and low-paid assignments. All of us, the whole of society, lose out because the creators of culture are not allowed to work under reasonable conditions. A strong cultural life presupposes that those who create can work under decent conditions. I am pleased that the government has set up an investigation to review the issue of adapting health insurance for freelancers. It has been an important issue for me and for the Green Party. It is also reasonable to invest 75 million in next year in order to strengthen artists' conditions in 2022 as part of the re-launch of culture. The Artists' Board and the Authors' Fund allocate the money as scholarships to artists in performing arts, images and form, music, poetry, prose and drama. 50 million is also allocated to free actors in performing arts and music. It is about giving free actors such as organizers and free groups strengthened opportunities to perform performing arts and reach a broad audience throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a fantastic film country that is full of producers, scriptwriters, directors and actors of the highest class. But the film was already before the pandemic a vulnerable industry, and now it needs support for restarting. It is therefore proposed that EUR 55 million be allocated to support the re-launch of the film. It is very gratifying that EUR 100 million per year is permanently earmarked for the development and introduction of film production incentives. It is an issue that the Green Party has been pushing for a long time. This very important reform is also welcomed by the entire film industry. With a production incentive for film, Sweden's competitiveness can be strengthened towards the outside world. Both Swedish and foreign productions can move their productions here to a greater extent. It strengthens the film sector, its industry and its cultural development. But the reform also gives a boost to the Swedish business community, which in areas such as hotels, restaurants and technology will be able to take advantage of the benefits of moving productions here. Culture is one of the most important things we have. Culture should be accessible to people throughout the country. That is why we propose that regional culture should be permanently strengthened by EUR 100 million per year. This means that, during our term of office, we have strengthened regional cultural life by a total of a quarter of a billion in permanent ambition. This means an injection for our museums, theatres, archives, performing arts institutions, homecraft and free cultural life throughout the country. The Green Party will closely monitor the new government's work in the field of culture and push for continued support for the culture and recovery after the pandemic. We must ensure that culture does not get unfair rules compared to other sectors. I also hope that the new Minister for Culture will take up the work on freedom of culture, to which our former Minister, Amanda Lind, attached great importance.
i-469e455183ac99aa-178	Madam President, I would like I agree with the proposal in the report on the appropriations for 2022 under Category 17. I would like to start by talking about an extremely important issue – free art. The new Minister of Culture, Jeanette Gustafsdotter, mentioned this as an important point when she introduced herself to the Swedish people. In Svenska Dagbladet, the outgoing Minister of Culture, Amanda Lind, the Green Party, just a few days ago, wrote about the protection of free art as one of the most important tasks of cultural policy. However, according to the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, culture is largely governed by political clout and not at all independent. And instead of taking on the heavy criticism, as the minister responsible, the outgoing minister of culture blames the bourgeois alliance. We Christian Democrats wonder why the environmentalist culture ministers in the S-MP government during their seven years in power have done no more to strengthen freedom in culture. In June this year, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis published the report So free is art. It is an alarming picture of Kultursverige. Artists and creators of culture feel distrust of the benefit system, which they believe in many cases is narrow and highly politically guided by objectives and demands. At the same time, the following is on the government's website: ..................................................... We Christian Democrats are calling for more, not less, freedom in culture. The report So free is the art, from the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, states that parts of the state grants are governed and implemented with negative impact on artistic freedom, that the principle of arm's length is not possible and that there is a goal direction that risks adversely affecting artistic freedom. Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, it is important that both artistic freedom and the principle of arm's length are respected, so that art and culture are not adversely affected by cultural policy. The next government, we believe, must pay attention to the shortcomings that Cultural Analysis reports in the report and come back with strong proposals so that the negative impact of government governance is completely avoided. In the report, Cultural Analysis describes how the Swedish Arts Council has a negative impact on artistic freedom: a concrete example is that applicants are asked about and how to integrate the gender equality, LGBTQ, diversity and intercultural perspectives into their activities, projects, publications or similar. The question posed in the Swedish Arts Council's application form is interpreted by the applicants, to a large extent, as that the Swedish Arts Council asks for how the perspectives should be integrated into the artistic idea and content. ..................................................... In a survey on the impact of governance on art and culture among artists and cultural creators, 33 per cent of respondents replied that they had abstained from applying for grants because they had experienced that the assessment criteria were in conflict with artistic freedom. One in three polled artists and creators of culture feel distrust and refrain from applying for grants is a major failure of cultural policy and the previous government, made up of social democrats and environmentalists. Cultural analysis report also shows that there is a tendency for applicants to adapt in order for art to fit in with the criteria that authorities ask for when applying for grants or grants. Cultural policy governance misses the goal of an arm's length distance and respect for artistic freedom. We Christian Democrats therefore want the incoming Social Democratic Government to take into account the proposals put forward by Cultural Analysis. For example, it is a question of the government allowing the ideal of artistic freedom to be more guiding, of contributing authorities becoming more precise in the communication and assessment processes, and of regions and municipalities clarifying their position on artistic freedom. For example, an artist should not have to be forced to paint only feminist art, whatever it really means, in order to obtain state aid. We Christian Democrats want a clear change, and a broader grasp should be taken of the impact of the governance of state cultural policy. Madam President, I would like In the determined budget on the cultural side, we are increasing by 20 million. It is the Scouts' children's and young people's activities that are awarded that money. We also contribute 25 million to associations and organisations whose activities aim to break the involuntary loneliness and isolation of older people. Loneliness has become a new public disease among our elderly, and it is important to break that trend. We are holding back from cuts in public education. We accept the Government's initiative and see the Council for Folkbildningsrådet, folkhögskolan och studieförbunden as extremely important in building a good society. Of course, I will come back with my party's view of the various proposals that are being made as and when. A common budget, with other parties, does not include everything. Some priorities are being set. I can assure you that the so-called leisure card will eventually come back. I have seen an increased interest from other parties in giving children and young people, not least those who live in financial vulnerability, greater opportunities to participate in culture, which is so important for us to feel good, everyone and together. I look forward to spring and the election movement, when we will meet in debates around the important culture.
i-469e455183ac99aa-193	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with Mr Redar's earlier speech today. There are many who have longed to meet in the study rooms to socialize, to learn Swedish, to participate in various activities that make everyday life meaningful, to break the involuntary loneliness or to read the grades. Whatever the desire, these meetings lead to good public health or education, which in turn leads to a job and, above all, to a belief in the future of working life and a living income. Madam President, I would like In my speech, I intend to highlight how important peoples' movements are for Sweden, for the regions, for the municipalities and, above all, for our citizens. I have with me many years of experience in municipal politics in Örnsköldsvik municipality, which is located in Västernorrland County. Believe me, I know the importance of adult education to many. I myself got my vocational training through the Middle East folk high school, and I have two sons who, under the wings of the study association, had the opportunity to practice music and form bands, record records and tour with other bands around Europe. Without the help of the study associations, this would have been very difficult to achieve. Without folk high school, I would not have been able to fulfill my youth dream of training as a leisure leader with sports and outdoor life as a profile. It gave me a professional title and a permanent job. Madam President, I would like We are all aware of the 2020 pandemic, which is still stressful for society as a whole. The whole of Swedish association life had to change its activities, meetings, study circles, seminars and outreach activities. Everything was postponed, cancelled or switched to participation via link. This was and is quite right. Human life is to be protected and saved, and it is absolutely necessary to this day. Folkhögskolan och studieförbund have made great efforts to meet challenges, and with the right support and resources, they are prepared to do even more for a society where people are seen, know trust and are involved. For those who have fallen into involuntary loneliness and long-term exclusion, study associations and folk high schools can be a turning point and a way forward. We have 155 folk high schools around the country and eleven study associations if you include Sisu Sports Educators. Last year, folk high schools offered courses in 151 municipalities, which is a reduction of five municipalities. As a result of the pandemic, a larger part of the activity was carried out at a distance. In recent years, within the framework of the Knowledgelift, we have strengthened the conditions for people's education, and in this budget we want to extend the expansion of the folk high school that started in 2020 with the aim of increasing by 3 000 years. Our proposal is therefore an increase of EUR 300 million in appropriations. During this week a number of study associations and folk high schools have contacted us Social Democrats with deep concern about what an M-KD-SD budget would mean for their activities. In their party movements, some parties have proposed substantial cuts. How to interpret that they now agree to the government's proposal, they will have to answer for themselves. Still, concern for the future persists. By their unique pedagogy, folk high schools can give more people the chance of education. Through education through study associations, they also receive training in democratic responsibility and leadership that gives them the opportunity to shape their lives, stand up for their rights and demand a part of power. Folk education is the basis for the development of democracy and the basic democratic ideas of freedom of expression, association and assembly. Folkbildning is a strong contributor to Sweden being at the top when we talk about democratic countries. Madam President, I would like Not investing in the education of the people is a missed opportunity to invest in democracy. A number of cases of fraud and irregularities have created a crisis of confidence in public education. When tax funds for peoples' education are misused, it means that there are those who miss the opportunity to participate in free and voluntary learning. That is why we look forward to the investigation into democracy conditions, because we want to work to tighten these conditions. The study associations have themselves worked on their own action plans to tackle fraud, and increased control efforts and the Swedish National Audit Office's review are ongoing. Government contributions to the education of the people shall be exclusively devoted to activities that fulfil the aims of the state with the grant and strengthen our common democracy. If there is no doubt about it. Folkhögskola and student associations play an important role for people who have not received education in other education systems or for those who want to change their professional orientation in the middle of their lives. Folk high schools and study associations provide opportunities to learn, experience and participate in culture and educational work, and their importance for public health and human self-confidence in actively participating in society is very great. Madam President, I would like Folk high schools are already starting to equip themselves to receive more young people who have failed high school or have fallen behind due to the pandemic. We can also note that the proportion of participants with special needs has increased in folk high schools, and we are already making great efforts to meet each individual's needs in order to create participation and the opportunity for the individual to influence his/her life situation for the future. That is why we Social Democrats want to emphasise that people's education is an important and growing player for people with different backgrounds and conditions. We want to strengthen their position in the labour market, particularly in the case of foreign born and short-term students, as well as in the case of young people who have not completed their upper secondary school studies. Madam President, I would like Developments at the municipal level worry me. Municipalities with right-wing government have greatly reduced support for peoples' education or completely removed it, even though it is known that there are nearly 150 000 young people who are neither working nor studying, as well as thousands of people who meet each day in study circles, study associations and folk high schools. As has been said, these meeting places are particularly important for people with functional variations, new arrivals and those who dropped out of school. We need to get them into work. Madam President, I would like Finally, we Social Democrats have a special opinion. That is why we have not taken part in the decision. But with this budget, we will be able to expand the public college and equip our operations.
i-469e455183ac99aa-211	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Jan Ersa owned Nackabyn, Per Persa owned Backabyn in Village in West Ed. Jan Ersa, Per Persa, they never kept peace. If the oat is good in Nackabyn, it went wrong in Backabyn. Then Per Persa was angry, then swore in mjugg Per Persa, then branch and flen Jan Ersa, so mouth went half dislocated. Were the clover next door in Backabyn, it was weak in Nackabyn, where grew flowers and berries. Then branch and flen Per Persa, then Jan Ersa lodged with his fist away for Per. Then, my dear colleagues, there are many, long verses that might actually be read by Lars Mejern Larsson. The poem is Gustaf Fröding, which originates from Värmland. But I'm still going to finish the story: So they fought, and stood, and lived; and they measured one another full. The process broke Jan Ersa and the spirits Per Persa, because both of them failed. And none of them softened when at the end they fell ill and were put in soil. ♪ Woe to the next thing, Jan Ersa! We meet, we meet, Per Persa! 中, was their last word. However, trilsk like Jan in Nackabyn aggressors like Per in Backabyn aggressors in Västra Ed. Jan Ersa, Per Persa, they never kept peace. Madam President, I would like Fortunately, that is not the case at all in the Committee on Culture. I would like to say that it is exactly the opposite, although a certain contentiousness may have been apparent in previous speeches. Rather, it is the opposite. I would like to highlight precisely the good cooperation we have, and hopefully will continue to have in the future, in the major areas where we are actually doing the same thing. With eight different games you have different agendas. The Moderate Coalition Party talks to everyone and gathers majorities for its various proposals; then it's like in all the negotiations – you get to give and take. There should be no doubt whatsoever that the Moderates' proposals in the various cultural political movements will continue to be pursued in the Chamber and in various arenas of debate. It is about the development and evaluation of the cultural cooperation model. It is about political governance, which Roland Utbolt so well highlighted, and it is so incredibly important. It is not only the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis that has highlighted the fact that the model is a major obstacle to free art and sport, but also many cultural workers and athletes themselves have done so during the pandemic in particular. It is about strong and quality-assured support for civil society. Quality assured, I would like to emphasise. The Moderates want to triple the production incentive, and we want it to be designed as a tax reduction model rather than a subsidy. It also concerns the establishment of a Sami national scene, the revitalisation of the Sami languages and more language centres, and repatriation – where the state should take greater responsibility. Madam President, I would like It is also a new and comprehensive study of sports policy. It has been 60 years since a comprehensive approach to sport policy was taken. Sport needs to be brought together in the run-up to the 2020s, and the investigation should also include elite sport. Madam President, the report presented by the National Sports Federation a little over a year ago highlighted the shortcomings in the objectives and strategy of elite sport in the country. You really need a lot of extra steps. The e-sport should also be treated as a sport. I can also highlight other issues that are close to my heart, namely cultural heritage, museums and music. This is what we can do, and that is what is so amazing about sitting on the Committee on Culture. There is the broad palette of different subject areas to handle. And, as I started with, we usually agree. We also agree on an area that has been a moderate focus area, namely children's and young people's right to culture. It is about the importance of children's and young people's reading comprehension and reading learning. My mother read Jan Ersa and Per Persa to me. When I, as a young teacher many years ago, would jump into an eighth grade and teach poetry analysis, I immediately realized that this is a particular challenge. I was thinking a lot about how to get the teen-tired VIK-juniors and the slightly long-haired hardcoats at the bottom of the room to look up what poetry and poetry can mean. Jan Ersa and Per Persa helped me in that. The poem is funny! It's tragic at the end, but it's funny. I cleaned the two long-haired hard coats to perform Jan Ersa and Per Persa. They did that amazingly. I also cleaned the slightly tired VIK-juniors to write essays about their great interests in life, in this case Västerås Ice Hockey Club. That's where I come from. It became evident that these youths possessed amazing talents to become writers. We must promote reading comprehension among more children and young people. Today we see that even though children have grown up with a family library, it is not always that today's youths produce books, read and browse. They acquire information by other means. I would like to highlight the Swedish Academy's major investment in young people, especially poetry. Together with the National Board of Education, they have produced the book I hold in my hand, A bridge of poetry, which is available in class sets and individual copies, for children of young age so that they can be introduced to poetry. We're going to talk a lot about this kind of effort. This book should be carried by all of us in the Committee on Culture when we are out to talk about where the very first start of an active cultural life begins, that is, with the children. Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to support the proposal contained in the Kru1 report of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and reject the reservations. I would, of course, like to thank the Committee on Culture for its cooperation during this year and in previous years. I wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. It is still early, but in these contexts it is important for the Committee on Culture to perform. Stop arguing, make peace and love culture and sport!
i-469e455183ac99aa-234	Madam President, I would like Now we go from culture to the Swedish National Audit Office and research and development. I would like to endorse the M, KD and L reservations. The research carried out in Sweden is important, and we are very proud of it. Last night there was a large and fine seminar in the Second Chamber on research into the pandemic. We know that there is a great deal of interest in research, and it must be done in a good way. We also know that much progress has been made on medicines and vaccinations. This is something we should continue to work with – of course. Today it is about R & D activities. A lot of money is being invested there. SEK 170 billion was invested in 2019, of which 70 per cent came from industry and 30 per cent from the public sector. 170 billion is a lot of money – 3 percent of Sweden's bnp. These are large and important resources. Madam President, I would like It is important that this is about good research. It is therefore good that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out an audit of the operations. Unfortunately, the Swedish National Audit Office's report speaks clearly, namely that the government has seriously failed to follow up on R & D activities. That's not good, of course. The quality of R & D activities is not as it should be. The resources are not properly managed, and this is not a question of good management of state resources. It's serious. A further review shows that 63 percent of the authorities lack documented processes for dealing with conflicts of interest for external experts. That's a lot. 42% of the authorities lack documentation on how to deal with their own staff. That's almost half. To remedy this, the Moderates and Christian Democrats propose the introduction of a Council of National and International Experts to obtain a factual and impartial evaluation of R & D activities. Madam President, I would like We believe that it is important for external audit to carry out good control and follow-up, but unfortunately we have not seen that yet. The audit should be divided into higher education institutions and universities, research councils and government agencies. They are to be revised separately because they are different quantities. You should look at and compare the quality. Unfortunately, there is still much to be done. We would like to summarise this in four points, Madam President. We believe it is important that there is constant and continuous evaluation of R & D activities. That is something that we think goes without saying. We Moderates often talk about evaluation. We still think it is important, and it must always be done on a regular basis – on this point too. It is also important that there are guidelines that give us objectivity and impartiality about the funds allocated. It's a huge amount of money that's being allocated. Financial control must also be strengthened and improved. Finally, we believe that it is important to monitor the way in which contributions are made and the external audit is carried out in such a way that they are properly granted and also objectively and impartially. We believe that R & D efforts are important. Of course they'll still be there. That is something we must prioritise, because research is extremely important. But it must also be credible. We must be able to see that this is true and that the money is being used properly, that we get good research that is being properly funded. And it always has to be evaluated. That is why I support our reservation.
i-469e455183ac99aa-248	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed 85 authorities and their research and development. It's about a lot of money, almost 8 billion. What has been looked at is whether governance works and is effective and how we manage state resources. It has been done through documentary studies, interviews and an in-depth review of 5 of the 85 authorities. What has been found, the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion, is that it does not work effectively because the conditions for ensuring quality and management with resources are lacking. Then the government has looked at this, and the government's assessment is that there is too little evaluation of research and development. The Government shares the view that there is reason to review state research funding, and the Government agrees that the coordination of government research and development between departments can be improved. The government also says that it will of course have a dialogue with the relevant authorities on this report. I think it is important to also mention that the research proposal presented this year mentions that there is reason to review the state organisation for research and innovation development, making it broad and including all authorities that procure, announce and self-finance research and development. This has already been mentioned before the Swedish National Audit Office's report came. As we heard earlier from Mr Sandström, there is a motion and now also a reservation. So we do not want to wait for the review that is under way. I believe that the government's actions, to review and also to have a dialogue with the relevant authorities, will resolve what is requested by the National Audit Office and in this exercise. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-469e455183ac99aa-255	Madam President, I would like It's a good thing that the honourable Member actually thinks the same as the Moderates, or M, KD and L in this case. Therefore, I do not quite understand why we do not want to grant our accompanying motion, which is now a reservation. This is something that can't wait. I think we often hear from the Social Democrats that they are waiting for another inquiry to come, but we feel that this cannot wait. This is incredibly important research, but it must also be ensured that it is done properly.
i-469e455183ac99aa-257	Madam President, I would like It's symptomatic for the Moderates that this is going to happen inconspicuously and very quickly. Now the world's solution has been found, and then there will be no medium booms. The Swedish Parliament's work is that you do solid investigations and look at what you should do. And this is what the government has already announced. As early as last year when the research bill was presented, it had been seen that coordination between the authorities in terms of their research and development could be improved. Therefore, it was included in the research proposal that was presented. So this is already happening. It is important that we carry out a thorough investigation if we are to make the right decision, and there will certainly be many different suggestions on how to do that. Last night we were in the same place listening to research. Our former Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson was there and told me that at that time long ago when he was Minister of Education they had a coordinating function between different departments, which I thought was very exciting to take on board. We have that when we produce the research bill, but we don't normally have it. So I think there is a lot to look at, but I await the review to be carried out. I would like to ask Mrs Sandström what she thinks will be so much better if you speed up and do exactly what you think. Why do you not want to wait for the review and see if there are even better proposals?
i-469e455183ac99aa-262	Madam President, I would like We think it is very important that you do evaluations and that you have dialogues and conversations. Unfortunately, however, it seems symptomatic that while we want to speed up, the Social Democrats want to postpone. We feel that when we want to hurry it still takes a very long time. This isn't going to be over. We have quite clear suggestions as to how we think we could do it. Then there is certainly much more that can be done, but we feel that this cannot wait. There are several proposals, such as having national and international expert councils. This is something that is not very difficult to implement and that could be done quite quickly. But it is therefore a question of doing better so that we can make use of state resources and still get good research. As the honourable Member said, we attended an interesting seminar yesterday on research. It is also the case that money for research is finite, and then it must be used properly.
i-469e455183ac99aa-267	Madam President, I would like I think we're really getting along pretty well with what we think. It's just the speed that we might have a slightly different opinion about. I think it was important that in the research bill we identified that we have opportunities for improvement in this – that we have a good system when we develop the research bill but that we need to ensure that that system exists all the time so that we have many different departments that constantly work with research. As we have seen in the report, we have 85 authorities working on research and development. It is clear then that we need to coordinate it all the time, not only when proposals are drawn up. But I am eagerly awaiting the review that is to be made and the proposals that come from it.
i-469e455183ac99aa-270	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 10 on aid for fuel stations. I ask you to accept reservation 1. In it we state that the government is also serious about the situation that has arisen, but that it is also working to find solutions to the problems raised by the new requirements for fuel stations. We also state that authorities work together to find solutions, as they have told us in committee. This is not enough for M, KD, SD and C, but rather for an announcement to the government on an issue on which we are already working and on which we agree that we must resolve. We cannot stress enough the importance of fuel stations in Sweden's rural areas. The government is also investing 75 million in the budget for next year, which is aimed directly at investments in fuel stations. We now fully agree on how much money is needed for this initiative in committee, and I am pleased about that. The government is also examining possible solutions for granting advances to those granted investment aid and is examining the possibility of some deferral for those who are unable to implement measures until the mid-year of next year. The government is actively working on the issue to solve the problems that have arisen, so we actually see no reason to address this announcement to the government. At the same time, I can see that in Västerbotten, 95% of all fuel stations have already changed. Up there, in assisted area 1, you can actually get 90% in aid for investment. So there is money, and there are solutions. Madam President, I would like Strengthening the development capacity of towns, cities, rural areas and rural areas. Our vision is, of course, to reduce the gaps – that all people should feel involved and have access to development resources wherever they live in the country. Industry should be given good opportunities to strengthen competitiveness and contribute to the transition to sustainable development. Madam President, I would like The government has invested heavily in regional development during its two mandates. Overall, for the period 2015 – 2020, more than 1 billion in state and EU funds went to various actions aimed at supporting grocery stores and fuel stations in Sweden's rural areas. A great deal has been done in this area. In next year's budget, we are continuing our efforts to ensure that the whole country lives. So on the issue we are debating today, we will be spending SEK 75 million next year. We also permanentise the special operating aid of 70 million to grocery stores in vulnerable areas, which is important for Sweden's rural areas. In my municipality of Älmhult we have a shop, the country store in Häradsbäck, which would not have existed without this support. In fact, the store has evolved into a meeting place. They have a restaurant, they have built a party hall and you can play bowling. There is also an exhibition hall. This would not have existed if the transaction had not acted as a driving force. The government is also investing SEK 1.3 billion in broadband support next year and has already invested a total of SEK 7 billion. Sweden will continue to be the leader in access to high-speed broadband. We are making investments in the Swedish Food Safety Agency and a continued power collection for the control of spruce bark and other forest damage. We extend the climate premium for machines and strengthen veterinary and animal care training. We also provide support for municipalities with specific challenges with 300 million – 88 municipalities with less than 9,000 inhabitants receive between 2.4 and 7.4 million each. We also continue to invest in the business environment in sparsely populated areas, which we think is very important. Money should also be used to strengthen regional export advisory services and to establish effective regional validation structures, which is important given the lack of skills that we see today. Madam President, I would like We also had 500 million for regional development measures to restart after the pandemic for small and medium-sized enterprises. The actions would be in line with the priorities pursued at regional level. The money would have gone to the regions, but of this it will not. The 500 million have M, SD and KD removed from their budget. Enterprise spending in Category 24 has also been removed. Among other things, they would have meant the Robotlift, the Digitalization Lift, the Skills.nu and the Job Jump. This is money that would have made a difference for small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Sweden and enabled them to develop and be at the forefront of technology development. The fact that they have been removed is a bit strange to me, given the high profile of these parties on this issue.
i-469e455183ac99aa-283	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3 in report NU10 Support for rural fuel stations, which we Swedish democrats otherwise support wholeheartedly. The clock is squeezing for the little country gas station. Sweden is facing a potential new sandwich death, mainly in our rural areas. In substance, this is a circumstance that may not involve the broad masses who live and work in our metropolitan regions, but in many places in our country this is actually a matter of destiny – why do I come into this speech a little later on? The Mack death that followed in the wake of the so-called Pumpkin Act in 2005, when many sandwiches were forced into costly and totally unnecessary, ideologically motivated investments, could have been avoided with sensible policies. In fact, when you saw the consequences, you also had to act from a political point of view. This time, however, the stations are not threatened by mandatory investment requirements that are ideologically motivated. Instead, it is a matter of new regulatory requirements that require the country's fuel plants to have pipes and tanks that are protected against moisture and corrosion by 1 July 2022 in order to continue their activities. As we see it, these regulations by MSB, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, are not unjustified and, as such, have not led to any political debate on the substance. The consequences, on the other hand, may be far-reaching in some places, and that is what today's debate is all about. There are those who said that the Swedish Democrats, when we have had problems with the introduction of these new regulations, are against the new government requirements, which lead to increased safety and better environment, but that is wrong. Let me make it clear once and for all that this is not the case and that there should be no doubt about it. On the other hand, we are concerned about the long-term negative impact these mandatory rules may have on the supply of commercial and public services for people, businesses and the public sector in our rural areas. And here we believe that from the political point of view we have a great responsibility to act. In many places in our country, for example in my own constituency of Norrbotten, the small local gas station is also, as a rule, the village's grocery store, not infrequently with public service functions such as postal and parcel delivery, pharmacy service or proxy function for Systembolaget. Sometimes the gas station is the village bus station, the place where you buy a fishing license and the place where the municipality's book bus stops. In short – in rural areas, the gas station is often the hub for service functions. Madam President, I would like It is not just about individuals being able to refuel and buy a litre of milk when it is out. It is also about social functions that are often forgotten in this particular debate. In some municipalities with, for example, small part-time fire stations or delocalised home care and home care, access to a local rural gas station is the prerequisite for starting from the village instead of having to go into the larger central town to refuel. Extinguishing forest fires and other major rescue operations may depend entirely on the availability of a functioning fuel station near the site where an operation is carried out. Among other things, the Committee on Defence has made a statement on this. With regard to the defence of the empire and the need for a not-too-extended network of fuel stations, there have also been comments from our colleagues in the Committee on Defence. In short, Madam President, Macken – and I am referring in particular to the smaller stations in sparsely populated areas with all their peripheral functions – forms a vital part of a functioning society in a way that we often overlook in our everyday lives. As I mentioned earlier, the business is often conducted with very modest returns. Sometimes these stations are run by village associations or individual families, and today it is rarely that the sandwiches we are primarily talking about here today are part of the large, well-known fuel chains. They are therefore also not covered by central contracts or framework agreements that hold down the costs of the large-scale works that they now need to carry out. The disillusionment and frustration of some of the entrepreneurs I have been in contact with can almost be taken on. To be faced with an ultimate requirement to invest in the millions without increasing turnover in any way would be as hopeless as to stand at Mount Everest's foot with a requirement to cross without oxygen, if you are not an alpineist. The task feels overwhelming, and throwing in the towel unfortunately seems to many as the only way out. Moreover, since investment costs do not generate any significant revenue, banks are not interested in providing loans. The support models that have been in place so far have been based on ex post payments, when the gas station owner has already had the work carried out. The industry has testified that the banks have denied the gas station owners the short-term loans they need to cope with this. Mackers themselves often lack, as I mentioned earlier, the financial muscles to lay out with investment costs in the millions. We already see that gas station owners have started to phase out their operations or communicated that they intend to do so on 1 July next year. To stop this development, we must act now, before it is too late. At the end of the summer, the Swedish Democrats took the initiative to initiate a committee initiative on this issue. Further parties got involved, and within the Committee on Industry and Industry, we landed in breaking out and dealing with the motion requests on this particular issue in a separate report. The result is what is on the table today. I am pleased to note that there is a clear committee majority for the main thrust of our position. Although the Swedish Democrats are in favour of delaying the implementation deadline for the future, we believe that the approach chosen by the committee, to facilitate the granting of exemptions to those stations that have not yet completed the upgrading of their facilities, is also an acceptable solution. The most important thing, as we see it, is not how to eliminate the threat of hundreds of closed sandwiches in the countryside without doing so. However, we believe that it should be easier to move the deadline forward than to impose an administrative burden on both the gas station owners concerned and MSB in the form of exemption applications and their handling. However, since the Authority itself seems to advocate this solution, we are not against it. The committee's proposal also includes the designation of the regions to take stock of which fuel stations are central to maintaining commercial service in our rural areas. That's good. This ensures that the support measures are targeted where they are most useful, which should always be taken into account when dealing with taxpayers' money. The fact that we are now taking such a clear approach to this issue in the Swedish Parliament should send out clear signals to the relevant gas station owners in the country: We are on your side. It should also send clear signals to the management of the municipalities concerned, which have followed developments with concern, not least in view of the fact that the costs of cleaning up land when the dams are in financial default and closed down are often a matter for the municipality to deal with. Perhaps now we are avoiding a number of such cases. If that is the case, that is, of course, a good thing. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats believe in a living countryside. As we see it, even though it will certainly change shape over time, the gas station has an important role to play for the foreseeable future. The fact that we have here today a majority of committees to take the necessary measures to eliminate a new potential wave of sandwich deaths in rural areas is therefore very satisfactory.
i-469e455183ac99aa-304	Madam President, I would like The Presidium, the audience and those of you who may be watching the debate! I would like to begin by calling for the majority of the committee's proposals to be approved, as well as for our second reservation by the Centre Party. I think you will recognize yourself in my description: When you travel around the countryside you unfortunately see a lot of deserted buildings in many places. It may be the old post that has been closed for several years. It could be the grocery store or some other service facility. Maybe the only thing left is the gas station. Then it is understood that it is very important, not only for those who live there but also for tourists who pass by and possibly for people who have holiday homes in the area. Not least, it has to be said that the gas station is extremely important in areas where the distances are very long. This certainly also applies in other places in Sweden, but since I come from Västerbotten and northern Sweden I know very well what long distance means, just like Birger Lahti from Norrbotten. Västerbotten's inland area is about the same size as Denmark. There are only six municipalities, which are quite sparsely populated. In total, there are 30,000 inhabitants. When you start talking about percentages and how many sandwiches there are in Västerbotten, I think the members of the Social Democrats make the same mistakes as they do in government positions. Few percent live in the hinterland, and there are also few sandwiches. But the stations may also be more significant there than along the coast, where there are quite a few. That's the big difference. The reason why we are talking about rural gas stations today, Madam President, is that politics and the authorities have made demands for fuel stations to switch pipes on the slopes. The pipes are rusting faster because we have decided to add renewable fuel to the propellant. No one thinks it's wrong to add it. On the other hand, it costs quite a lot to replace the pipes. It can be a cost of anything from 500 000 up to in some cases 3 million. If you have a fuel chain, you have already done this transformation and action. But for the little gas station owner, who may not have much money, this is huge sums of money. That is why I am very pleased that we are in agreement here in Parliament, so that this matter actually ended up here in the end. All parties see the importance of this. We now agree that exemptions should be granted to the gas station owners in order to enable them to take this measure and that they should then also receive stronger support to carry it out. Although there is already money to be searched in Västerbotten and elsewhere, as my Socialist colleague has just said, it is necessary to advance it with regard to EU money. It is not that you can requisition them at once, but you should sleep with them about a year and send in receipts. Then you get the amount. When the gas station owners go to the bank and say that they have received EU support and wonder if they can borrow money until the action is carried out, the banks usually say no. The chef in Harad in Norrbotten finally brought the municipal councillor at the bank. It was then possible to convince the bank that the gas station owner would receive a short-term loan until he could receive the EU money. It allowed him to keep the gas station. As a result, the home service did not have to drive 20 miles [60 km] of an easy way to refuel its cars, which can also be a consequence when the rural gas stations are shut down in these large areas, where it is very sparse. Last year I was invited by Mr Bogge, Madam President. He's been working on a project in Västerbotten. Some of you have met him here in Parliament when we have held seminars on the survival of the stations in the countryside. He invited me to come to Vilhelmina Municipality and visit several sandwiches in the mountain valleys there. One of the sandwiches I went to was the one in Dikanäs. The owner of the gas station told us that he and his wife had about $5,000 left in the last row at the end of the year. Anyone then understands that it is not exactly a lucrative activity. Yet it is so incredibly important for society, for tourists and for cottage owners. Here you have fuel, but not only that. You can order from Systembolaget. They have postage and tourist information. Much more will surely be added there eventually. It's so much more than just a gas station. I think most people in here have understood this, and those who live and live in these areas definitely understand it. There is a reason why we are pushing from the opposition parties on this issue. Some people in here think that we kick in open doors when we put forward committee initiatives. But it is not surprising, Madam President. Initially, when this question was raised a few years ago, not many parties in Parliament were interested. When we had a meeting last year with the then rural minister, she said, just like the Member of this room from the Social Democrats, that there is plenty of money and that you can seek EU funds – without understanding that you do not have money to sleep with until you have received these receipts and taken this action and when the banks say no. That's the whole thing. Nevertheless, I will be a friend and please welcome the fact that there are now many of us who think this is a good thing. It is money set aside in both the opposition budget and the Social Democrats budget that fell. Unfortunately, I think it's too little money. In its own budget, the Center Party had set aside double because we believe it will be necessary. Because there is so much money that is needed. It is up to 500 sandwiches around the country that need this support. However, when we have come this far, I hope that the parties in this room may have the opportunity to contribute to providing money if necessary. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to address you, Bogge Bogge. If you look at this from your office in Vilhelmina, I would like to extend a warm thank you to you for all your help, for never giving up and for your inspiration and for making us actually deal with this issue. You've been an inspiration to me along the way. Many times I've been close to giving up. I would also like to take this opportunity to send a thank you from a northerner to a show sitting in this room. It's AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson from the Moderates. You are one of the few who actually participated from the beginning and committed yourself and put an enormous amount of energy and interest into this. I'm also glad you've taken the countryside in the north to your heart. It's not always like that with all the shows in the embezzlement. But you have paid great attention to the question, and for that you should have a warm thank you.
i-469e455183ac99aa-320	Madam President, I would like This debate is about support for rural fuel stations. If this is something that all lots understand, it is probably that fuel sales are something that gives very little profit per sold liter of fuel. When we then talk about rural fuel stations, where there is little turnover, we understand why the name of the report is as it says. Initially, I would like to point out that the issue of the survival of fuel stations is important for many people living in rural and sparsely populated areas. In addition to offering people the opportunity to refuel their cars within a reasonable distance, these fuel stations also contribute to important social functions, which we have heard others talk about. They can, among other things, be representatives of Systembolaget, Svenska Spel and other things. They may even have some food. Or they are just a gathering point for locals. In addition, I note that the Committee on Defence has stressed in its opinion, by way of a protocol statement, the importance of enabling civil protection and the police, among other things, to operate under all conditions, which, according to the Committee on Defence, is particularly important in terms of access to fuels in rural and sparsely populated areas. We obviously share the opinion of the Committee on Defence. The committee proposes a declaration to the government on the motion for a resolution which has been raised during the general period of exercise. These are various measures to make it easier for gas station owners to make these technical updates at the facilities. It is simply about cisterns and pipes that are buried underground. Many times they are buried when the customer base was considerably larger – perhaps a long time ago. These are many fuel stations which have not yet completed these necessary updates in accordance with the requirements applicable from 1 July 2022. Some of the requirements of the notice are in itself reasonable, such as the revision of state aid rules to see if they stand in the way of making payments to those who own fuel stations in areas where the service is sparse. It is also a question of examining the possibility of making advance payments of aid to the owners of fuel stations so that they can make these necessary updates to the equipment. One might even look at the possibility of temporary exemptions. The Left Party does not disagree with the majority of the committee on the importance of providing these fuel stations with good conditions for carrying out these activities. At the same time, however, we note that the Government is actively working to ensure that these fuel stations are given the opportunity to take the necessary measures in accordance with the requirements decided by the Swedish Civil Protection Authority. The Government's proposal for the government budget for 2022, and the budget decided on, proposes an investment of SEK 75 million for investment aid for fuel stations in areas where the service is sparse, which is therefore a measure aimed directly at the fuel stations we are talking about. There are today large and growing regional differences in Sweden, where market forces make the money center around the cities. The remaining fuel stations in rural and sparsely populated areas are therefore important for people there to be able to obtain fuel within reasonable distances. As recommended in our motion, I therefore believe that it is essential for the government to ensure that these fuel stations are also updated, follow societal developments and have the opportunity to make the necessary updates as the transition requires and which also benefits the climate. These investments must therefore be linked to the charging infrastructure that is taking place. Madam President, I would like Here it is excellent that I am in favour of our reservation 4, but of course we are also in favour of reservation 1 which we have together with S and MP. Let me take a look back at what it looked like when I was a kid and what the possibilities then looked like to refuel. First of all, I had three shops in cycling distance. Even a gas station was at all three shops. They were actually called gas stations, regardless of whether diesel was refueled there. Speaking of diesel, I found a receipt from October 13, 1983. I came from Kiruna where I did military service and refuelled the car. Dieseln then cost 2.62 kroner per litre. I am only saying this as information that today is quite fun to have with you. Even then, the shops probably had a very small profit from fuel sales. But the whole thing meant that the service still existed. Now I have to take the car either 40 miles north or six and a half miles south just to buy food. Tanka I can actually do in the neighboring village, but it is thanks to the commitment of us villagers who there operates an unmanned tank station as an economic association. But it would be impossible to push if we had not received support and a huge number of voluntary unpaid work hours from the villagers. But one thing that makes development almost impossible is the lack of regional policy and the lack of a common understanding of what sparsely populated areas are supposed to be for. We raised and trained our children and young people to ensure that there was labour in industry and for urban development. We punished those who refused to move. It was about suspension from the unemployment fund and a system where everything was about draining the sparsely populated area. The EU's entry provided us with a common agricultural policy that further drained the small farmers. Now that one realizes that there is a limit to society, where taxes are not even enough for the basic, the answer is often that the state must go in to support things that the market has released long ago. At least here the token should fall down, I think. Our natural resources are good enough to strengthen society and AB Sweden – but what is left to give the local community the conditions? We should have a policy that encourages people and provides incentives to settle in rural areas. Surely there must be other advantages than the highest municipal tax if people are to choose to settle in rural areas. Madam President, I would like I don't want to black out everything that happens in the countryside, but it's about having experienced villages largely wiped out and always having the feeling of standing with your hat in hand and asking for help to make everyday life go together. It's about knowing that we have actually provided AB Sweden with human capital, energy, forest and ore – but that we still always need to beg. It feels like we are not only missing the mistakes made politically, but also the opportunities that are out there. The only thing missing is the common view of what we should have the countryside for. We who live and work out there want to run shops, petrol stations and other companies without direct support to the operations. But then migration flows must go back to the countryside and the places where the transformation of society is taking place. We want the basis for living communities, not just being a destination for those who have everything at home but who visit us when it suits their free time. Of course, I welcome tourists and visitors, but we who are going to live all 52 weeks in these dying communities actually need more than support for fuel stations in order for tourists, holiday owners and rescue services to be able to refuel.
i-469e455183ac99aa-339	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. This report is based on a number of proposals aimed in one way or another at promoting and facilitating our fuel stations. The background is the higher requirements for fuel stations that will take effect at mid-2022. These are requirements that concern both safety and the environment, and these are demands that the Green Party naturally welcomes and supports. Reasonable access to fuel stations is an important issue for many, not least in rural and sparsely populated areas. In addition to the fact that access to fuel in itself is an important infrastructure issue for people's everyday lives to merge, fuel stations often also offer other services and important societal functions. There is no doubt that the new requirements that will now also be tough for certain fuel stations, not least where the service is already at present sparse. Therefore, I am pleased that the previous government proposed in its budget proposal an investment of SEK 75 million for investment aid for fuel stations where the service is sparse. It is a direct measure to address the problem we are discussing today – it is addressed directly to these fuel stations. The Government's budget proposal also included other budgetary measures that promote rural and sparsely populated areas. The government has also announced that it is working on this issue in other ways. The national strategy for sustainable regional development across the country shows, among other things, that rural and sparsely populated service points are important for the attractiveness of living, working and living throughout our country. It has also emerged that the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, together with the Swedish Agency for Growth, is working on the issue of finding solutions to the problems that exist. Against this background, the Green Party sees no reason to address an announcement to the government in this area. We understand that the government is well aware of the problems that exist and is also taking action, and we will of course follow developments in this area very closely. Madam President, I would like Then let me look a little forward. I feel that there is a great deal of consensus between Parliament's parties on this issue. Fuel stations are today important both for access to fuel and for other public services. At the same time, the fleet of vehicles is undergoing a huge change. Today there are about 14 000 charging points in Sweden, and the increase is very rapid. At the same time, according to Drivkraft Sweden, there are more than 800 so-called service stations and petrol stations, i.e. stations that have a shop premises. That number has fallen sharply over time. In August this year about half of all new cars sold were rechargeable cars. In the third quarter of this year, sales of electric cars increased by as much as 157 per cent compared with the same period last year. This also applies not only to our metropolitan areas; there are no significant differences between urban and rural areas in the statistics on electric car sales. For example, we see that Norrbotten and Västerbotten are very good in electrification. This means that we need to think about the future of our infrastructure. It is both about the expansion of charging infrastructure and about our fuel stations. We all agree that fuel stations play an important role in society today, but it is not possible to get away from developments and that the weight of fuel stations will gradually decrease as the fleet changes. Therefore, when the whole of society and the entire fleet of vehicles are changing, it is important that we do not lock our country into old technology and infrastructure. We need to find new, innovative ways of providing services and important social functions that do not require traditional service stations.
i-469e455183ac99aa-349	Madam President, I would like As you who follow the debate have heard, it is about the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on aid for rural fuel stations. The question has been asked why we do not have a united committee. A majority in the committee wants to make a statement showing that the opposition actually disagrees with the majority. That's a very simple question to answer. It is now 210 days until the gas stations – or fuel stations, as it is called – have changed. They shall have replaced their pipe systems in the ground, as instructed by MSB. This means that they may not have their activities started on 1 July 2022 if they have not done so. Time is ticking, and there is very little time left. The problem is a number of knots that have arisen along the way. For example, it has not been possible for fuel stations and gas stations to apply for funds to reset when they have not received loans from the bank, i.e. bridge loans. They have therefore not been able to spend the money until they receive the money and can pay. There is therefore one element 22: From the gas station you want to change, and you have applied for and been granted these state funds – but they only come when the work and conversion is complete. As you have heard before, it may be 450 000 – 500 000 kroner but also up to perhaps 2 million, depending on what is to be done. We also know from some municipalities that this has happened. In Harad's municipality there has been a chairman of the municipal board who, in the end – if you are going to make an image – had to go straight over to the bank to get help with money so that the municipality would not have to shut down. You have a home help service that will take you about 60 miles, as you have heard. You've also heard about the emergency services coming up, and ordinary people are going to work. You drive to, in and from work. The tourism industry is also an essential part of society and the possibility of income. Shoes are to be refuelled. Helena Lindahl had been visiting Västerbottens inland, in Vilhelmina, and my party partner Elisabeth Björnsdotter and I have also been visiting. There you have hospitality for people from Norway, who come in motorhomes and caravans. That's how you get your income, and if you want these visitors, they have to be able to refuel. We have requested from the government to map out what it looks like in Macksverige to find out how many sandwiches are in need of support and help. Somewhere along the way we have understood from Svensk Gasinhandel that it can be between 100 and 180 sandwiches, but we do not know yet. This hastens, for on 30 June it is stopped. When I was in contact with a company in Norrbotten, it was said, speaking of the jobs that need to be done, that you can do about six jobs a month. Six jobs a month until the end of June 2022 represent only a small part of the 100 – 180 jobs. As late as June this year, I had an interpellation debate with the then rural minister Jennie Nilsson. The same question was raised, and I wanted answers on how to resolve the question. Since then, obviously, little has happened. There's talk of investigating. It is still being investigated, although it has been known about the knots and even though today we arrive at 2 December. The county administrative boards have also not been able to get all municipalities' answers. They are now allowed to hunt municipalities that have not submitted this. There are municipalities that have done so, but there are also municipalities that have not. It is the municipalities that will tell you how many sandwiches they have. Madam President, I would like I was told that gas station owners don't get loans from the bank to reset, even though the money is guaranteed by the state. That is why we have also asked the government to review whether it is possible to make advance payments. It has been said to me that this has never been possible and that it cannot be done. I hope we do not stay in this country. These bridge loans have to be made. Which entrepreneur does a job for someone if it does not know that the client has money in the account? One tip to the government is to use Almi; it has happened before. The Center has another proposal today. You can let them pay out the money and sleep out with these bridge loans. This is a very short time, and there is no need for much interest. Nor is there any risk in this, but it is known that the funds are coming out. If the government now in December still hasn't found a way forward, this is a tip. I was also going to say something about state aid. Let me take Abisko as an example. If Abisko has now done what the policy has said in the past by changing to reduce the environmental impact and has bought refrigerators and freezers – this is an example from the past, when you would rescrew and make sure to use less energy – they have used funds in a way that makes them unable to get more money. It's about they can't get any more money. In addition, if you're going to Kiruna to refuel your car – or if you're going to Norway, or if Norwegians are going here – this is the last outpost. If this doesn't happen, this will be a white spot on the map. We do not yet know whether there are any such municipalities, because this is not an inventory. We don't know what's going to happen. From our side we have said that we must allow this time to be extended so that there is the opportunity to get this with the stations in place. The strange thing is that we are once again here in December talking about this. We've talked about this before. We discussed it this spring and this summer in various forums and through interpellation debates and issues. For my part, this trip began with a seminar in Parliament before the pandemic. Helena Lindahl mentioned this. The Glöd project, with small businesses in Västerbotten, had a seminar on how it is. Moderator was Lotta Gröning. This ended when we then made a trip up to Pajala municipality in Norrbotten and visited Åke life in Kitkiöjärvi to find out on site what it is like to operate such a petrol station. It has also been mentioned that food makes it a central point for those living in sparsely populated areas. It is very instructive to travel in our country. You go out on the roads, follow the long forest roads and see what distance means. I would like to say something to Mr Axel Hallberg of the Green Party. It's great if we can get over to electricity in the future, but right now we need a bridge ahead. These gas stations are very important for us to move forward in that part. We're gonna help them get to this transition so we don't have any white spots. There's still a lot to do. Electric cars in all honour, but they also have to work in the cold. It's not always they do. There's a journey to be made. It is very important that we do not pull the carpet away from what is in our country today so that it gets worse in the future. We're gonna make a good trip, and everyone's coming. All parts – both the countryside and the city – are important in our country. I support the committee's proposal.
i-469e455183ac99aa-373	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the report on aid for rural fuel stations. This is an extremely important issue because we know the role and importance of the stations in our country. We have heard several Members of Parliament and colleagues talk about this earlier today. When we talk about Sweden and the countryside, there are some given parameters that we cannot change, however visionary we want to be. Sweden is an extremely elongated country. We have a sparse population in large parts of the country, and the conditions are very different. Now we see that a number of gas stations around the country need to invest, as it is decided to tighten safety requirements for all fuel stations' pipes and pipes to be equipped with a rust shield that reduces the risk of leakage. These requirements involve expenditure which a large number of fuel stations will not manage without help. This must be done by 1 July. These investments can be costly, especially for private owners of smaller fuel stations. They, in turn, maintain an extremely important social function for the smaller community or the smaller community. It is also not uncommon that sandwich owners also sell food, act as agents for Systembolaget, post office and pharmacy goods or are the hubs for providing tourist information. Now we see that there is an obvious risk of many fuel stations being forced to close down because they are unable to make these corrections without support or, for that matter, do not have time to do them before the time runs out. There are simply not enough workers and businesses that can be hired to do just that. Madam President, I would like What is remarkable, according to the committee, is that there is no survey of how many sandwiches there are that will not be able to take these measures. That is why the committee is calling on the government to do this and to see how many are covered and how many remain. We think it would be extremely unfortunate if there were even more white spots out in the Swedish heartland. The distance is likely to be even longer to the nearest gas station where people have the opportunity to refuel or do other errands. One reason why the issue has been raised even more for us Christian Democrats and several other parties in here is that the state must be able to ensure that there are fuels to maintain essential functions such as civil protection and the police. For all these different reasons, it is therefore important that the Government examines the possibility of making advance payments to enable owners of fuel stations in areas where the service is sparse to make these necessary updates. However, it is important for the government to review the possibility of granting a temporary exemption to fuel stations in areas where the service is sparse which have not yet done, or which are not deemed to have time to make, the necessary investments in accordance with the requirements. I would like to highlight the continued importance of the car, especially for Sweden, where rural areas and, above all, sparsely populated areas depend on the car. It is great that the fleet of vehicles is facing a transition where biofuels, electrification and more are expected. But we Christian Democrats do not believe that this is happening overnight. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal for a decision. We Christian Democrats want the whole of Sweden to work.
i-469e455183ac99aa-384	Madam President, I would like The starting point for us liberals is the protection of people's power over their own situation and the ability to create their own future. A liberal policy for the whole of Sweden strives to create the conditions for those who want to live, work or run businesses in rural areas or in smaller urban areas to be able to do so. We will take advantage of the unique conditions for individuals' development and company competitiveness that exist in different parts of our country. You should be able to live and work wherever you want. Digitalisation means that more people have this opportunity, and we see that more and more people are leaving the big cities to settle in the countryside. Society changes. Urbanisation is fundamentally based on people's free choice, and we defend it. At the same time, we want to give people the opportunity to make use of the improved opportunities that open up for living and living outside the big cities and at long distances from population density through improved communications. That is exactly what we are ensuring by today's announcement. We make sure that the whole of Sweden can and has the opportunity to both live and grow. It is a big challenge for small petrol stations in sparsely populated areas. In addition, the small gas stations are often the hub of the countryside. That's where people meet, and that's where you can get basic community services. We must therefore enable them to continue their activities. If we had not taken these measures as we are doing today, there would have been a risk that the activities would simply have had to be phased out. Madam President, I would like Liberals want all of Sweden's development power, growth potential and employment opportunities to be exploited. It is entrepreneurship and economic development that are the basis of our prosperity. That is why people and businesses all over the country must be given the opportunity to grow and develop. In so doing, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-469e455183ac99aa-388	Madam President, I would like Sweden is an elongated country and a country with a large difference in population density. This means that there are rural areas throughout our elongated country. This report on support for rural fuel stations is therefore not an issue which only concerns certain parts of our country. We all have different reasons why we have chosen to live where we do, and there are many factors that play a role in these decisions. Rural service is not a new issue, and there are many different aspects to it. The Swedish Civil Protection Authority has decided to change the requirements for fuel stations' tanks, pipelines and hose lines to be protected against corrosion. The requirements are more depending on whether the cisterns are buried or standing above ground. All these changes must be made until July 1, 2022. Many fuel stations with a large fuel chain in their backs have already made all these changes, but many of the small fuel stations run by a single business operator are much more difficult to meet the new legal requirements for change. Madam President, I would like In my home county Västerbotten there are many smaller towns where the fuel station is the central point of the small community. In addition to fuel, the fuel station often provides a small grocery store. It acts as a delivery point for mail and pharmacy and performs all other necessary public services. Many of these smaller resorts are attractive tourist destinations and act as holiday rentals, tourist information and more. The list of different functions of the fuel stations can be made long. Ammarnäs is located 90 km outside Sorsele town, which in turn is 300 km from Umeå, if it helps to geographically orient itself. There is a small fuel station with all the public services that locals and tourists need. The owner of the fuel station earns between SEK 10 000 and SEK 15 000 per year on fuel. The rest he earns from the other community services he provides. He does not have the money to make the changes required on the cistern and hoses. Nor is he allowed to borrow money from any bank, even though the region is guaranteed to provide support to carry out these improvements. It will be a moment 22, with devastating consequences. If we look at the consequences of the closure of this fuel station and the associated public service, we see a dark scenario. Where will rescue services, home help, police, locals and tourists refuel their cars. Working vehicles that drive 40 kilometres an hour should all travel 180 km to refuel their vehicles. If the whole country is to live, we have definitely forgotten about Ammarnäs and similar places in Västerbotten's hinterland, and Västerbotten is not the only county in Sweden with similar problems. The issue of aid to fuel stations has been under discussion for years, but nothing has happened. There has been a lack of information and many fuel stations have realised that they will not be able to afford the necessary conversion. Now we have finally received an announcement to the government that you have to act on the question of whether you stand by your mantra that the whole country should live. If you don't, there will be many white spots in our country and especially in northern Sweden's interior. In our announcement to the government, we have highlighted four important points in order for there to continue to be a living countryside and a living Sweden. We must have a survey of the number of fuel stations that have not yet been able to make the necessary changes. We need to review existing state aid rules so that fuel stations that bought new freezers, for example, last year do not stand without the possibility of seeking support for the required conversion. There must be an opportunity to make advance payments from the region to the relevant fuel stations so that they do not have to lie out with money that they do not have. A temporary derogation is needed in order to make the new changes required when the entrepreneurs who can carry out these measures are few. In addition, the season is short because the ground is frozen deep into spring and it freezes early in autumn. That is why, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
