i-92f00522f0a1501f-3	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me if I am making a different assessment now than in my question answer of 19 November when I thought that the Prison Service offers a safe and secure environment for both employees and prisoners. Lotta Olsson has also asked me whether, together with the Government, I have discussed and analysed what risks it may pose if institutional staff are not sufficient due to sickness absence and if this causes health and safety problems in our institutions. When the pandemic became a reality in Sweden, the Prison Service quickly made several decisions in order to limit the spread of infection in prisons and detention centres. The situation was quickly taken very seriously. Correctional services are part of society. We have since almost a year an ongoing social dispersal of covid-19. There have been minor outbreaks in the Prison Service units. Recently there was a more extensive outbreak at Anstalten Kalmar. At the time of writing, we have 19 infected inmates at Prison Services. This should be made in relation to the fact that the Prison Service handles more than 7,000 prisoners every day. Since the start of the pandemic, just under 500 cases of infection have been detected. It is my assessment that, despite the current conditions, the Prison Service has managed to keep the spread of infection and to maintain its activities, while prisons and detention centres are close to being fully occupied. According to the ongoing information I receive from the Correctional Service, the authority is prepared to maintain staff supply even in the event of major outbreaks of infection among the personnel of an institution or detention centre. The Authority's handling of the situation at Anstalten Kalmar also showed this. Both the government and the Prison Service take the situation very seriously. We have a close dialogue with the Prison Service on this issue and are closely following developments in the spread of infection, the situation of prisoners and personnel and the Authority's preparedness for human resources.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-9	Madam President, I would like We have an ongoing pandemic, now in wave two. Sweden has been affected by it since last spring. Although we have not had a lockdown, as we see in many other countries of the world, we have had more or less tough restrictions to follow in order to reduce the spread of infection. Our hospitals have had to re-prioritise their activities and also remove important operations to make resources available to the most severely ill covid-19 patients. This has required enormous efforts from many, with withdrawn holidays, ordered service schedules and full protective equipment during 12 hours. At most 550 patients were treated in our intensive care departments in the country. Madam President, I would like After the first wave of infection last spring, the number was cared for from the end of July down to about 50 people in intensive care. But pandemic experts warned that a second wave could come when there was not yet a vaccine. On 19 November, when I asked Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson about the risk of infection in our heavy institutions, the number of covid-19 patients in our intensive care departments had increased to 183. And a further increase in the number of severely ill persons could be feared. This autumn, the heavy institutions have not had a restraining order, as they had last spring. That is why I felt it was important to highlight the issue of the spread of infection on a written question. At the time, the anstaltes had not reported that there was any infection. The Minister of Justice then saw no danger but felt that there were safe routines and medical care for the inmates in case of infection. Madam President, I would like Now the problem has arisen. Since the outbreak of the infection, 500 cases of infection have occurred among 7,000 inmates. Our institutions have not been what the Minister called a safe environment. Add to that that our institutions are fully occupied and that it is a heavy pressure to cope with staffing. Then this is not a successful example of handling. What I also wonder about is why no restraining order has been introduced, as has been done in other risk environments such as our retirement homes. Visitors to our heavy prisons come from all over the country and can carry in and carry it with them. No, the prisons have not been safe in terms of the spread of infection.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-19	Madam President, I would like I have just the opposite picture. In view of the fact that we have been spreading society for a year, I would like to say that, with regard to the spread of infection that has taken place in the prison system, I had actually feared that it would be much worse. I was very concerned last spring that there could be a much stronger impact in the prison services. But I believe that these fears have not been resolved. In my answer, I say that a few weeks ago we had 19 infected, and I think the current figure is 38. But it should be remembered that we have 7,000 inmates on a normal day. If we then have 38 infected, I think it should be put in relation to this, not least in view of how it is everywhere in society. Since last year, as I have said, we have had about 500 infected but no deaths in the prison system as a result of Corona. We've had a case of hospitalization as a result of Corona. If you look at the staff, the sick absence is low. It is now 4.6 percent compared to 5.9% normal years. The absence of sick leave from the staff is therefore lower now than it is a normal year. I therefore say that this is in fact a sign that, given the circumstances, the situation has been well dealt with, even now in relation to the latest case in Kalmar. It should be borne in mind once again that we have a hundred percent occupancy in both prisons and detention centres. We're dealing with a highly contagious disease. As I said, we have had a social spread for almost a year. Yet so far we have so few victims in the prison services. I believe that this is due to the fact that they acted very early and that on 12 March they stopped all visits and cancelled all leave. It was compensated with free telephone calls for the inmates, for example, so that they could have contact with their relatives. Then, as in many other places in society, reliefs were carried out during spring and summer. Now visitors are allowed, but behind plexiglas so that the infection does not spread further in a way that would be unfortunate. In addition, all new inmates coming to a detention centre or to an institution are offered testing upon arrival. If you do not want to be tested and refuse to be tested, you will be considered infected and also treated as infected. The Correctional Service states that they have unlimited capacity for rapid tests, so that they can make use of it when needed. All in all, however, I would like to say that, so far enough, the penal service is one of the least affected sectors of society thanks, I say, to the resourceful and professional work of the management and of all employees. But then you should also know that we are not through this yet. It is therefore important to continue to hold on to this for a few more months. We are, of course, following very closely, on an almost daily basis, the development of the prison system. I'm getting regular reports from the correctional services about the contagion situation. We also have a lot of contact with the trade unions, not least Seko, who organizes most of the employees in the prisons and detention centres, to get this picture as well. So we take this very seriously.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-30	Madam President, I would like I have already highlighted in this House the problem of our institutions being full and almost overcrowded. This places extra demands on the staff. It gets crowded in all spaces. I don't think it's satisfying with 500 infected by 7,000 in a place where the people are locked up. Although there are no deaths, I do not know if Morgan Johansson knows what it means if a person from Kumla ends up in a hospital and what safety looks like then. It takes two people who are with the person all the time to guard. Even if the person is sick, it usually wants out if it's locked up for life. A couple of people in a hospital could put an institution in a completely different situation, as well as those in an intensive care department. I am very surprised that the government does not think outside the box. You drive justice alone and health issues separately – you don't think about society as a whole. Over the past few weeks, 2 500 people have been hospitalized because of covid-19, and I believe that perhaps it is not visits to our heavy institutions that are the most important. We have old people who haven't been able to see their family in a whole year. I think it would have been possible to get down to zero if we had been really strict. I think that both those who work in the institutions and those who work in the health care system are put at risk when they are exposed to stressful situations in this way. I also find it strange that it does not seem that the government has plans for how to deal with the pandemic in the future. I asked Tomas Eneroth about this yesterday, and his answer to the question how to set up strategies in the government was that you have press conferences with the Public Health Agency every day. I find that very strange. Now it looks like this in the penitentiary system, and we may be burdening health care with heavy medical cases that also need supervision. What's the impact on society? I believe that an entire country's management team must have this discussion. It can't be that Morgan Johansson should be responsible for the entire risk management – how it will beat if a hospital gets some seriously ill people from our heavy institutions is actually outside Morgan Johansson's area of expertise. It's not like when an ordinary person gets there. In addition, I think we should take care of the staff of our heavy institutions. We know that the working environment there is not like anywhere, but you are very mentally affected. In addition, we should consider that you can get infected and bring the disease home to your family, which is another stress factor. I do not think that the handling has been as successful as Morgan Johansson wants to suggest.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-39	Madam President, I would like We do not have 500 infected in the penitentiary today, but we have 38 infected in the penitentiary today. There have been 500 infected throughout the period; it is important to say. Right now we have 38 infected by 7,000 inmates. We don't have any deaths. We have a single hospital stay throughout this period. In the case of staff, sick leave is lower than usual. I think this should be put in relation to the picture that Lotta Olsson is trying to paint because we have got infected in the institutions that have affected them in a very tangible way. We have some outbreaks, most recently in Kalmar. We also had an outbreak in Halmstad a few months ago. Nevertheless, my assessment is that there are good procedures in place to intervene against this and to limit the problem. I will also say that it is not I who sit and make assessments of how the prison services should or should not do in relation to the disease protection. The Correctional Service is in constant contact with the CDC and follows the CDC's advice on how to deal with different situations. I would say that the situation could have been much worse if we had not intervened quite early – already in mid-March – with restrictions. I think we should rather thank both management and employees for a good job in this situation. So far, I believe that they have done well. As far as the visiting situation is concerned, visits are made, as has been said, behind plexiglas. It is also the case that staff have access to the protective equipment they need to have in order to reduce the infection in visitor situations. Roundingly, perhaps I should remind you why we have a high occupancy right now. We have 1 000 more prisoners today compared to two years ago. This is because we have invested heavily in the police, that we have increased the possibilities of arrest and that we have more severe penalties now than we had before. That's why more people are in prisons and jails. This is part of the fact that law enforcement has got off to a good start – in a much better way than before. One conclusion is that we need to catch up, as we are now doing, in order to overcome bottlenecks and capacity shortages. Among other things, we have to use a lot of double coating right now, and that is, of course, unfortunate. The prison system is now in the midst of an expansion phase, and plans are being made for new detention centres and prisons in a large number of localities in the country. We're going to have 2,000 more seats by 2027, just to mention something. As we increase capacity overall, we also prevent any such situations in the future. Now we make sure that there is more air and more capacity in the system and that it becomes easier to handle. Again, with the result we have so far – a very limited number of infected, no deaths and a single hospital stay – I would say that the prison services have done better than many might have feared. It has been done as a result of professional action by both management and employees. We are, once again, not through this. We will have a few more months ahead of us as this will be a threat hanging over us while the vaccination programme is rolling in. Correctional services are, of course, also included in the vaccination programme, according to the priority lists that exist. We will be able to get through this in a few months' time, but we are not going to paint the prison system as a sector that has been extremely hard hit by this. It is rather the opposite – I would say that this has been dealt with in such a way that it has been possible to limit the spread of infection in the prison system.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-50	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that the spread of infection should have been kept to zero. The people are actually locked up in a prison, so you have the full opportunity to keep an environment that prevents people from being exposed to infection. Morgan Johansson is pleased that there are not many at the moment. I don't know how much turnover is in our heavy class 1 institutions. You often sit there for quite a long time. If it is the same population that has been there all year and 500 people have been infected it is a fairly high figure; it is actually the same as the community infection. If, on the other hand, very many inmates have been replaced during this year, it is something else. I also wonder what it is that means that the prison services do not need a restraining order, which our retirement homes must have. There's talk of plexiglas, but people are going inside out. In addition, visitors usually do not come from the neighborhood, as is the case when people visit parents who may live nearby, but travel across the country. Of course, anyone who is in a heavy prison would love to have a visit. I think it's very difficult to stop this without getting orders from top management that you have to have these restrictions. There I think Morgan Johansson is shooting down the problem on the staff. I don't want to say anything but that you've done a fantastic job based on the opportunities you've had. That is precisely why – in order to protect the working environment and the opportunities to do a really good job – I bring this up for debate. It is also about how we can protect our health care so that it will not be burdened with 24 hours a day sitting two people guarding someone who comes from a heavy prison, because it is an extra burden.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-56	Madam President, I would like So we have had such a hospital stay this year. We haven't had anyone who died. With regard to the 500 people who have been infected, I am talking not only about the heavy prisons but also about the entire prison system and about all the security classes – first, second and third. So this applies to all the 7 000 places, and of course also to the detention centres. Then it may be little wonder that there are tougher rules for retirement homes. There are people who are older and thus also much more fragile, of course, and the risks to their health are much greater than to the health of those ingested. Then I don't think it's strange that you have different rules, because these are two completely different things. Is it possible to reduce the spread of the disease to zero? No, I think that's impossible. True, those in prison are locked up, yes. But employees come and go all the time, and it is clear that they are out in the community and are in danger of bringing infection from there into the prisons and prisons. It is probably very difficult to bring the spread of infection down to zero in view of this. Of course, we will continue to follow the advice of the infectious disease doctors. Correctional services are in constant contact with those who are experts in this field to know exactly where to put these balances. Nevertheless, I would like to continue to point out that, given that we have had a general spread of society for almost a year, the prison services have so far managed surprisingly well, and they have done so in the light of the fact that they acted very early on with strong measures.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-61	Madam President, I would like Björn Söder has asked me why the government has not acted in accordance with the timetable for a system of post-control abroad of armaments proposed by the ISP expert authority. He has also asked when such a system will be introduced. Sweden has a strict regulatory framework for the export control of armaments. This is mainly reflected in the tests carried out on applications for export authorisations, i.e. before a possible exit. In the past, Swedish authorities have occasionally carried out checks abroad after an exit, when information has been provided on suspected diversion of war material. This possibility continues. The issue now under consideration concerns a more systematic and regular implementation of such controls, even when there is no suspicion of diversion. Such a system may be complementary to a continued rigorous and rigorous control that is exercised before an exit permit can be issued. The analysis and proposal submitted by ISP in 2018 has been sent to the relevant bodies, whose referrals have been taken into account in the further preparation within the Government Office. A number of practical questions have had to be clarified. In this context, various solutions and experiences from other countries that introduced post-controls have been studied. The issues are partly complex, and it has not always been possible to find workable solutions quickly. It is still important for the government to have a system of on-the-spot post-checks as soon as possible. The preparation of this is now in the final stage. Every year, the Government submits a letter to the Riksdag about the strategic export control. This year's letter will contain up-to-date information on the post-control issue.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-65	Madam President, I would like Sweden's export control is based on a regulatory framework where the premise is that the export of war material is not allowed. On the basis of this general ban, exemptions can then be granted for arms exports. The control for companies and others exporting war material is extensive in Sweden. The starting point for the export of war material abroad is that the material does not come into the wrong hands, which of course could have very serious consequences. The risk of spreading to unwanted recipients constitutes a risk to Sweden's security but may also conflict with the objectives of Swedish foreign policy. Export control in Sweden has been regulated since the First World War, and on several occasions in the near future investigations have been carried out to tighten up the control of war equipment. By 2015, an investigation was carried out on reinforced export control of armaments. The study concludes that post-control abroad of war material is carried out by several other states and that Sweden should tighten up post-control. The following is written: In recent years it has been discovered on a number of occasions that war material exported from Sweden has fallen into the wrong hands. This is deeply worrying and creates uncertainty about the effectiveness of Swedish export control. The post-control of war material taken out of Sweden needs to be tightened up. On this basis, it was proposed that Sweden should introduce a post-control system. None of Parliament's parties, all of which were represented on the committee, had any objections to introducing post-controls. The government then came back in 2017 with a bill and wrote the following regarding the introduction of post-control: A post-control system should be introduced that allows the ability to monitor compliance with end-use commitments abroad. The ISP should be instructed to analyse and make proposals on the details and modalities of such verification. The strategic product inspection, ISP, was commissioned on 19 October 2017 to analyse the question of post-control abroad of war material and to submit proposals for the design of a system for such checks. On 29 March 2018, the ISP presented a proposal for the introduction of post-controls. In its response to the Government Office, ISP explained how post-controls can be carried out on several aspects. The answer shows that the introduction of post-controls will not entail significant costs, but will involve a limited reinforcement of the ISP workforce and, if necessary, any reinforcement at the Government Office. The ISP response shows that the appropriate time to implement the scheme is from 1 January 2019. Although ISP reported its response more than two years ago, the government has not yet put in place a post-control system. Thus, ISP's recommendation on the introduction of a post-control system has not been followed, despite the fact that in many contexts the government has given the impression of prioritising the control of arms exports, as in the January agreement that was concluded in January 2019. There you can read about the Government's ambition to further restrict arms exports. I therefore ask the question why the government has not acted in accordance with the timetable proposed by the expert authority ISP and when a system of post-control abroad of armaments will be introduced. In his reply, the Minister for Justice and Migration explains that the proposal submitted by ISP in 2018 has been for consultation and that it is one of the reasons why it has been delayed. However, I believe that the ISP's timetable had taken account of response times from referral bodies and therefore does not find the government's explanation very reasonable. Furthermore, the Minister says that the issues are partly complex. Does this mean, then, that to some extent they are not so complicated? It is remarkable that no action has been taken, despite the fact that now more than two years have elapsed since post-control would have been introduced as recommended by the ISP. At this rate, one might wonder whether the government will introduce post-control at all during the current term of office.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-75	Madam President, I would like I happened to be in the Chamber and thought that it might be good both for the Government and for the interpeller to hear things directly from the horse's mouth, so to speak, as I was chairing the armaments investigation that is partly concerned here in the debate. There are more Members of this House who were in the investigation, Madam President. I'm not going into polemics with any of the gentlemen, but I'm going to shed more light on the matter. As Björn Söder points out, we spent quite a lot of time on this issue, which was called diversion in the investigation, but the illicit proliferation of weapons is perhaps a more accurate term in light Swedish. The investigation was on very complicated issues, and I know that both the Government and the interpeller know and understand. Armaments exports are complicated. It is therefore a good thing that it should take some time. I think the investigation worked for two and a half years. There this was an issue that repeatedly appeared, not least because during the investigation period there were a number of medial examples of Swedish weapons that were being diverted. There were no large amounts, but there was a discussion on this. In every such media explosion, one might say, we raised and looked at the issue in the investigation. Respect for the Swedish rules is based on following up that weapons do not come into operation. It is a fairly important issue. Then my assessment is that it is not a huge question. It is not, of course, a question of huge quantities that have gone astray, but it is extremely important in principle. If we are to have credible and stable arms exports, as I think, it should be based on rules of follow-up, scrutiny and control. Ultimately, this has been on the embassies and foreign missions, but the investigation concluded that the embassies and missions have not felt that they had this responsibility. This means that the control, i.e. the follow-up to so-called diversion, has been inadequate. Whether or not it has led to major problems could not be determined by the investigation. In principle, however, it is important that this monitoring is carried out. The investigation's proposal was that the body we have in place of the authority, the ISP, should be given an increased responsibility to engage in this type of monitoring and scrutiny. The responsibility that embassies and foreign missions do not feel they have should clearly become ISP's. It would therefore be good if this could be done. Madam President, I would like The Government is opening the way for this to happen, which is desirable. Let me add that, if the ISP is given this increased responsibility, the ISP must also reasonably be allocated resources for it. It is clear that our embassies and missions abroad do not feel that they have this responsibility. But if you think this is important and central, as many of us do, it is essential that someone should be given this responsibility, which the ISP should be given and shouldered. There is reason to believe that we will come back to these issues with the new EU regulation on dual-use materiel, the PDA legislation, which may involve additional data for the ISP. I therefore believe that, in general, we need to strengthen the resources for ISP, which is an important body in relation to Swedish arms exports.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-86	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for his comments but also for the work he did in the framework of KEX. This is part of the agreement we made on arms exports a few years ago. It was a great success, both the settlement in the investigation and the follow-up agreement on the bill. We thus received a bill in place that went through in the Riksdag with a large and broad majority. It is important that we make such agreements, not least in delicate and difficult matters with both foreign and domestic political implications. This agreement must, of course, be honoured in all its parts, including in this area of post-control. That brings me to Björn Söder's question. Of course we'll get a system like this in place. But it's not something you do in a flash. Many, not least practical issues have had to be resolved, and it has taken a little longer than we would have liked. However, as I said in the interpellation response, we are in the final stage of preparation, and my assessment is that we will be able to decide on the necessary changes to regulations in order to give this mission to the ISP and to create this system in the current month or some way into March, in any case in the near future. This means that we will have the system in place during this year, and that is a message of joy. So to the resource issue. ISP received significantly increased resources when we implemented KEX. In 2018, we increased ISP's funding by nearly 50 percent. It was in order to solve the tasks assigned to the new legislation. We believe that this increase in appropriations also covers this task. But, of course, in each budget negotiation, we will discuss resource issues for all our authorities and others, so we are following this along. As I said, the money is in place, and the system will be in place during the year. That's my message.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-92	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answer I have now given on the timetable. I called for that precisely because it was not clear from the interpellation response. I agree with the Government that Sweden has a strict regulatory framework for export control, and I welcome that. But it does not matter what laws we have if we do not check that the laws are also being complied with. As Mr Wallmark said, not a great deal of armaments has been in operation, but it is still important that such legislation is in place and that post-checks are made to see that end-user agreements and more are also being followed. The Government says that a number of practical questions have needed to be clarified. However, according to ISP's opinion, this does not appear to be very cumbersome. It therefore presented a timetable for implementation on 1 January 2019 as it would not entail any additional costs or staff reinforcement. That is why I have been asking why this has taken so long. More than two years after the proposal, we are standing here, and it is still not in place. I would like to thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation, but since I do not quite understand what practical questions remain to be clarified, I ask the Government to explain this. Thank you for the debate.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-97	Madam President, I would like I can sometimes have very different opinions in relation to Minister Morgan Johansson. I can also sometimes criticize him for his Twitter technology. Having said that, I will nevertheless express my respect for the way in which Minister Johansson dealt with the legislation in this House on a renewed regime for arms exports. There was teamwork between several actors. The investigation was the basis, but work was done from both the government and the parliament. I would therefore like to emphasise both Björn Söder and Morgan Johansson, namely that if you are in favour of arms exports, which I believe all three parties that we represent are, it is important that there are clear rules and a firm foundation and that if you change, you do so with broad parliamentary support and with the understanding, as this debate also shows, that there are complex issues that require care. Having said that, I would like to thank you for your answer. It was good what Morgan Johansson said about the timetable for implementing also the part about post-control. It is important that we have clear rules, follow-up and review. Those of us who protect a Swedish arms export must be the most important and urgent guardians of compliance with the rules. Madam President, I would like There is reason to return to Morgan Johansson's tweeting, but it is another debate.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-102	Madam President, I would like There is every reason to discuss, in all possible contexts, disagreements, including on Twitter. But where we can agree, we will also try to get along, and that is exactly what we did when we took the process forward from KEX to the bill we are now following up. It is a strength for Sweden that in such a matter we have come so far and have a broad consensus on the order we have today. We are going to get a system like this in place, but there have been some practical problems about who will do it, how it will be done, what it will cost, what approach you should have to the countries you talk about and more. It's a pretty big job. We've never had a system like this before. Now we are building it up, and I have said today that we will have it in place this year and decide in the near future on the necessary changes to the regulations. In concrete terms, this means that the ISP will be able to go out and check on the spot that the customer still has the equipment they have bought from us and that it has not gone astray. That's what we're talking about. It is not common for equipment to get out of hand, and the cases we have had are, after all, quite far back in time. The current system has therefore worked well, but nothing works so well that it cannot be improved. Since this is a way of further increasing control and thus strengthening the legitimacy of the system, it is one thing we want to do. As I said, the ISP has received money. Their resources have increased by almost 50 percent from 2018 to enable them to solve the tasks that exist within the framework of KEX, and the system will be set up during the year.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-108	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I think it is acceptable for expulsions to be postponed because those who have been given an expulsion decision refuse to test themselves for covid-19 and whether I intend to take any other measures than those mentioned in parliamentary questions on the same theme, i.e. to be able to carry out covid tests with coercion and suspended daily allowances for those who refuse to test themselves, which, according to Mrs Stenergard, I have rejected. Initially, I would like to emphasise that return issues are important for the government and that at this stage I neither reject nor promise measures. Since 2014, more than 88 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden, and the government is keen on a long-term well-functioning return. In order to maintain a humane, legally secure and long-term sustainable migration policy, those who, after a legal review for their asylum reasons, have received a rejection decision must return as quickly as possible. The return must take place primarily on a voluntary basis, but otherwise under coercion. This also applies during the current pandemic. However, the pandemic poses specific challenges for return work. This includes the possibility of holding persons in detention and of executing expulsion orders. The Act on Disease Control contains provisions on person-oriented coercive measures such as forced investigation. Covid-19 is a general and social disease for which it is possible in some cases to conduct forced investigations under the Disease Control Act. A forced investigation involves a significant breach of privacy, and there must be concrete circumstances that suggest that the person concerned may be infected and there is a real risk of other people being infected. The examinations and tests to be carried out and taken may be determined on a case-by-case basis. The Aliens Act also contains certain provisions on coercive measures, but they have a different purpose from what would now be the case. Compulsive testing of people to return does not therefore have the support of today's legislation. Forced testing – and possibly forced vaccination in the long term – is a very far-reaching measure that requires careful consideration. It would also take a long time to amend the law, and there are also constitutional aspects to be taken into account. As far as the daily allowance is concerned, it may be set in certain cases. It may be that the asylum seeker refuses, without valid reason, to contribute to the necessary measures for the execution of a decision on expulsion. It is therefore up to the judicial authorities, in this case the Migration Board and the administrative courts, to decide whether and when such a situation is involved. The ongoing pandemic puts various social functions under test. We are still in a very strained situation, and it is inevitable that everything cannot work as usual. This also applies to the return. Even in the current circumstances, the starting point remains that a country is obliged, in accordance with the principles of international law, to take back its citizens. Return must also work in the current situation.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-115	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. For us to get the asylum system in order, a yes must be a yes and a no must be a no. If you've got a no on your asylum application, you're supposed to leave the country. Today, it doesn't work. Only half of those who have received an expulsion order leave the country voluntarily. A large number of people choose to go underground every year instead of following expulsion decisions, and today up to 50 000 people are estimated to live without permission in Sweden. The Swedish return work has received extensive criticism of, among others, the Delegation for Migration Studies and the Swedish National Audit Office. New research shows that Norway and the Netherlands have twice as high a level of return as Sweden. When the return does not work, it leads to more people choosing to go to Sweden, because they know that there is a great chance that they can stay. Madam President, I would like Around the turn of the year, the media reported on a new way of avoiding or delaying expulsion. Those in detention waiting for deportation can avoid being expelled by refusing to test themselves for covid-19 because many countries to receive those expelled require a negative test, such as Afghanistan. I have therefore asked the Minister for Migration whether he considers it acceptable that expulsions should be postponed because those who have been given an expulsion order refuse to test themselves for covid-19 and whether the Minister intends to take any measures to remedy it. In his reply, the Minister describes the current regulatory framework and notes that it is not possible to carry out forced testing under current legislation. I am well aware of this, and that is why I propose that the law be amended as a matter of urgency. Madam President, I would like There must always be a balance between measures that run the risk of breach of privacy. I'm well aware of that. However, I do not find it so difficult to strike that balance in this case. We can take care of these people by force, we can lock them up by force and we can reject them by force. If they are required to take a covid test in order to expel them, they should also be able to do so under coercion. I am pleased that Morgan Johansson nevertheless says that he does not reject any measures. If he agrees with me that it is unreasonable for a person who has been given an expulsion decision to choose to postpone it at his discretion, should he not do something about it as soon as possible?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-123	Madam President, I would like First of all, with regard to the issue raised by Maria Stenergard, that more people are seeking Sweden and the risk of it, we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. There are also fewer and a smaller proportion of asylum seekers coming to the EU who are seeking Sweden. In Moderates' time, 12% of all asylum seekers came to the EU who applied to Sweden. Today it is 3%, so both the number and the proportion that come to Sweden have decreased. Then, when it comes to return, Sweden is one of the countries in the EU that is best at actually carrying out returns. This shows the evaluations that have been carried out. There are many who talk about return, but Sweden is a country that prioritises and really implements them. I say that things have also improved in recent years because we now have better cooperation with a number of countries. In the time of the Moderates, returns could hardly be carried out at all, for example to Afghanistan, let alone to Morocco, for there were no agreements and cooperation such as we have now and which our government has set up. Since 2014, almost 90 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden and either gone to another EU country – in Dublin cases – or back to their home country. It is an average of more than 1 000 per month. About a quarter has been done by coercion, the rest voluntarily. It has also worked during the pandemic – surprisingly, I would say. Last year nearly 7,800 former asylum seekers left Sweden, despite the pandemic. That is more than many might have expected, given how travel opportunities have deteriorated. It's also worked for harder countries. Even to Afghanistan, we have been able to carry out returns. We carried out more than 130 returns to Afghanistan last year, and there were about 250 returns to Iraq. I therefore say that, in general, it has worked better than many might have expected. And the numbers will rise again when the pandemic is over. But not all flights will happen. For example, we had a flight before Christmas that had to be cancelled. However, this was not because someone refused to test themselves – all of them were tested – but because one of the prison services' accompanying staff was found to be infected. Then the others also had to be quarantined and the flight cancelled. Those who were to be rejected were brought back to custody. This is unfortunate, but that is what happens. The flights will therefore resume when the possibility exists. Is it possible to force someone to test him? No, we cannot, under current legislation. However, there is an opportunity to reduce the daily allowance for those who refuse. When it comes to not being able to force testing, Sweden is not alone. For example, as Maria Stenergard mentioned, Norway does not have the possibility of forced testing, nor Austria, Finland, France or Holland. To implement such a change of law while the pandemic is going on, I say, is impossible. It is a matter of body intervention by force. These are strong intervention measures with constitutional aspects. You can't rush out that kind of thing. If so, it is better to have a dialogue with the countries concerned about changing their rules on this point or testing them themselves when they come into place. It is a much easier way to deal with this issue. Such a dialogue will be conducted with the countries concerned. But this is, in any case, a problem that passes over as we get through the pandemic.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-129	Madam President, I would like I must say that I am quite surprised that the Minister for Migration is so pleased with the Swedish return work. Every successful return is good, but we cannot be satisfied. According to recent research, countries such as Norway and the Netherlands have proven to be twice as good at return as Sweden. I think that we should rather compare ourselves with comparable countries than with countries such as Spain or Italy. But I want to go back to the question of the testing of people to be expelled. On detention are people who are to be expelled and where it is estimated that there is a risk that they may deviate before the expulsion is carried out. A maximum of one year as an asylum seeker. It has now come to my attention that being detained now very well knows that by refusing testing for covid-19 soon they will be able to be released from custody because they are approaching the one-year limit. If they had not refused, the expulsion could have been carried out because flights were underway. Interrupting enforcement at such a late stage entails considerable costs for society. Moreover, having to release them from custody for a year has passed and they refuse to test themselves is totally unacceptable. We have extremely few detention places, and those we use must also lead to expulsion. The border police always warn that when they find a person who has no right to reside in the country and they want to take it into custody, they know they have to release someone else from custody. Such a lack of space it is. Madam President, I would like One can certainly choose to point out countries that do not have this opportunity, or – if one really wants to succeed in return work and implement measures – one can look at countries that actually do this, such as Germany, which is an analogue country. They're carrying out tests forcefully. I am also very surprised that the Minister is suggesting that there has not been an obligation to stop expulsions because someone has refused to test themselves. Instead, he refers only to a situation in which staff have been shown to be infected. Does the Minister deny that expulsions have been prevented because those who would be expelled have refused to test themselves? It is absolutely possible that this type of regulatory change will not be in place until this pandemic is over. But I hope the government has learned a lesson. Pandemies will come again. Then society must be much better equipped to meet them in all sectors.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-135	Madam President, I would like The evaluations carried out on returns show that Sweden is one of the better countries to actually implement them. As I said, when I meet other EU migration ministers, there is often a lot of talk about return and how important it is. Then you can look at pure facts about how many are returning from those countries. Then it turns out that there is often a lot of talk but very little workshop. In Sweden, we haven't talked much about return until maybe now in recent years. But we have been one of the countries that has actually carried out expulsions, and we have a working system. A normal year we have a return of almost 1 000 a month, since 2014 up to and including 1 000 a month. It's actually pretty good results, I would say. It has turned out that we have a working system, both for Dublin cases and for those who are going home to their home countries. Afghanistan we're talking about again. In the time of the Moderates, we could hardly do anything with Afghanistan, for you had not set up a system. You had no cooperation. You didn't have a deal with Afghanistan. As a result, there were hardly any returns at all. We did it. Now we have a working return to such a country as well. A few years ago we had a lot of problems with Moroccans that we could not return, not least in Stockholm and Gothenburg. Thanks to the work we did during our reign, we now have effective cooperation with Morocco as well. Maria Malmer Stenergard talks about detention sites. We have doubled the number of detention places during our reign in order to improve return. We have increased workplace inspections, so that you can increasingly go into workplaces and check who actually works there – are they people with work permits or people without work permits? If you come to people who do not have a work permit, you can then drive them to detention for further transport to their countries of origin. We have also significantly increased the resources both for the Migration Agency and for the police for return purposes. Even during the pandemic year, we were able, as I said, to carry out over 7,800 outbounds, even though travel opportunities were reduced so much. As far as the question of forced testing is concerned, I have reported a number of countries that do not have that possibility. If you really want to do something about this situation, I think it is much faster and easier to raise the issue with the countries concerned, such as Afghanistan. Then they will have to solve that situation at home by either testing them or keeping them in detention or quarantine while waiting for a check to be made that they are not infected. It is a much easier way to deal with this than to start a legislative process that will not be completed until long after we are through the pandemic. As regards return issues in general, we continue to push forward in the EU to ensure that there is a functioning system there too. The European Commission will present a report on 11 February on how to develop return opportunities. Among other things, it is a question of making greater use of the visa regime targeted at specific countries as a means of exerting pressure to ensure a more effective system. But as I said, we should make use of the legislative possibilities that we have and not believe that we can resolve this situation with legislative processes that will take a very long time, if we are to solve this at all.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-142	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Migration does not answer my question if he denies the fact that people have been allowed to stay here despite expulsion decisions because they have refused to test themselves. If you are not aware of the problems, it is of course very difficult to do something about them. If I had been Minister of Migration, I would have been deeply concerned about the great failure we have in getting people to return when they have been turned down on their asylum application. I would certainly not have been pleased that countries such as Norway and the Netherlands are twice as good as we are on return. I would probably have tried to take every measure necessary to execute expulsions. If many people who should leave the country instead stay, the resources of society are not being used properly. Ultimately, it will go out on those who actually have the right to stay here. A no must be a no if a yes is really to be a yes. A functioning return requires hard work and will. Sometimes I wonder if that will really exists with the government. Having said that, I think it is great if the Minister for Migration wants to conduct dialogues with these countries to make it work. I agree that this is probably the fastest way to resolve the situation. Nevertheless, I believe that we need to start legislative work in the face of future pandemics and crises that can put us back in this situation.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-146	Madam President, I would like Of course there's a will and not just that. Again, we have doubled the number of detention centres. We've increased workplace inspections. We now have effective cooperation with more countries than before, so that we can reject them. We have also significantly increased the resources for the Migration Agency and the police specifically for returnees. Of course there's not just one will. We have done a lot to make it work better. We will continue it nationally and also in European cooperation. I believe, however, that if, since 2014, we have carried out almost 90 000 outbounds – over 1 000 a month – this is not a bad result. Then you can surely find countries that are better, yes. But Sweden is probably one of the countries in the EU that implements this more effectively than most other countries. A lot of people talk about it, but we're doing it. Then we'll see how politics goes. Maria Malmer Stenergard said what she would do if she were a minister of migration. I don't think Maria Malmer Stenergard will be Minister of Migration. If there were to be a change of government in that direction, it would probably be rather Jimmie Åkesson in that case.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-150	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I intend to withdraw the proposal that adults should be granted a residence permit, even though they have no grounds for protection, if the situation is particularly painful. The Ministry of Justice has referred to a memorandum with supplementary proposals for the Migration Committee's report A sustainable migration policy. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that the new regime proposed in the Migration Committee's report, with temporary residence permits as a general rule, is sustainable in the long term and does not lead to unreasonable consequences in individual cases. One of the suggestions in the memo is that children should be granted a residence permit if circumstances are particularly distressing. It is proposed that the same should apply to an adult who has resided in Sweden with a residence permit and during that time had a special connection with Sweden. The background is that Sweden will now move from a system where permanent residence permits have been the norm to a system where the general rule instead becomes temporary residence permits. It is reasonable that people who are staying in Sweden with a temporary residence permit for a long time and who have had a special connection here, for example through work or family, should continue to be able to obtain a residence permit if there are particularly distressing circumstances. However, they do not receive permanent residence permits without temporary residence permits. In this context, the Migration Agency's response in its referral has also considered that a proposed amendment of the law cannot be expected to increase the number of first-time applications granted, since the proposal only covers those who already had a residence permit. The report of the Migration Committee and the supplementary memo are continuing. The timetable is fixed, and the government will return to Parliament when the preparation is complete.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-155	Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that Sweden is struggling with extensive exclusion after many years of high reception, the government chooses to go forward with migration policy proposals that lead to more asylum seekers and more residence permits. New more generous rules have been announced for those covered by the secondary legislation. The aim is to make it easier for more people to stay. It also proposes a completely new basis for residence permits, where special reasons are sufficient for adults to stay here. It is called a new humanitarian protection base, but it is not. It's something completely different. What has previously been a humanitarian valve for the most distressing cases is now turning into a completely new foundation for people to stay here even though they do not have protection reasons. In its referral, the Migration Board writes in connection with the proposal: The group that can potentially be covered by the paragraph due to its adaptation to Sweden is increasing over time. The Finnish Immigration Service considers that, over time, the provision can no longer be applied only in exceptional circumstances. It is therefore crystal clear that there will no longer be an exception but a completely new basis. If they become a reality, the proposals will lead to increased immigration when Sweden instead needs a tight immigration policy for a very long time. The Finnish Immigration Service states that the provision is unclear and leaves a large margin of discretion, which is not appropriate when it is no longer an exception. The Migration Court in Malmö writes: The proposal allows for a broad assessment of fairness in the individual case and inhibits a uniform and predictable application of law. Madam President, I would like When Ulf Kristersson in the party leader debate a few weeks ago, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven asked why the government has not put forward a ready-made proposal to remove the so-called youth discount for young offenders, the Prime Minister replied: ... With such a heavy criticism by the judicial authorities against such a proposal, the government chooses to rework the proposal so that it can hear from those who will handle the legislation. ..................................................... There have now been heavy criticisms from the Migration Agency and the Migration Courts, the authorities that are going to do that, as the Prime Minister puts it. The question then is how the government intends to proceed in the work. The only reasonable thing is, with the Prime Minister's own reasoning, that the government chooses to withdraw the proposal, as it has been formulated in the memo. This is the background to my interpellation. I have asked the Minister whether he intends to withdraw the proposal for a new basis for adults to stay here even though they do not have grounds for protection. Unfortunately, it is now quite clear, after the Minister's reply, that this time the referrals will be completely ignored. The referral is part of the processing requirement that is regulated by our constitution, in order for us to get good quality legislation. Morgan Johansson seems to take that very lightly. For example, the referral period for such proposals should normally be three months, so that those who are going to comment will have sufficient time to do so. However, these proposals were sent out by the government in just one month, and it was over Christmas. One cannot help but ask the question: Was the government afraid of the justified criticism that would come? What else is the reason for choosing to violate the Constitution?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-165	Madam President, I would like The government, of course, does not violate the Constitution. It's all wrong. It is clear that we are using the referral institute just as all the other governments have done. We also take in referral points and process our legislative proposals based on the consultation institute. That's wrong. We are not violating any constitution. Perhaps we should also see where we are on the asylum issue as such. Again, the number of asylum seekers is currently the lowest in 20 years. Central government migration and integration costs have fallen by SEK 35 billion since 2016. The proportion of asylum seekers coming to Sweden has fallen from 12% as it was in Moderates' time. It was 12% of those who came to the EU who came to Sweden, and today it is 3%. It is the result of the austerity that we took five years ago with ID checks and border controls with the temporary law. Then the Moderates were nothing to hold in their hands, on the contrary. They were unable even to vote in this House in favour of the ID checks when we pushed it through. Nevertheless, these measures brought the situation under control. Now we sit and sign the new permanent legislation. We have not made any proposals yet. We work with them, and we take the views of the consultation bodies into account in that work. It will be the strictest legislation in almost 40 years. We move on to temporary residence permits from permanent residence permits as a general rule. At the same time, we say that you should have a permanent residence permit, you can apply for it after three years. But then one must be able to support oneself, have basic knowledge of Swedish and how Swedish society works, and one should not have committed any serious crimes. This is in line with the rest of the EU. It is even tighter than the EU average in terms of the length of permits. There is therefore a balance between rights and obligations. It is about the right to protection if you need it, but at the same time a duty and obligation to integrate if you are to have a permanent residence permit. The proposal also provides for the possibility of extended temporary residence permits for humanitarian reasons. It is a valve to prevent unreasonable effects when we move to a new regime of temporary residence permits. Let me give you an example. Let's say we have a family that's been here eight, ten years. They work and pay taxes, and the kids go to school. Then there will be peace in the homeland. They've gone around on temporary residence permits. Should such a family be thrown out of Sweden even though they are integrated in any way that one can after all demand after that time? My view is that it is not reasonable to do so, but there should be a valve. If they have a special connection and can also refer to particularly distressing circumstances, such a family should be given the possibility of a temporary, not permanent, residence permit extension. This is an exception. It is a micro-proposal in the margin of migration policy. Of course, it does not overwhelm the whole of politics. The Migration Board doesn't think so either. Maria Malmer Stenergard talks about that many more will now come to Sweden as a result. The Finnish Immigration Service literally writes in his/her referral: The proposed amendment cannot therefore be expected to increase the number of first-time applications granted. Thus: cannot be expected to lead to an increase in the number of first-time applications granted. This is black and white in the Finnish Immigration Service's referrals. Why doesn't Maria Malmer Stenergard read it? Why does she continue to pursue a rhetoric based on the assumption that the proposal would increase the number of asylum applications on this point when there is no evidence whatsoever of it, at least not in the Migration Board's referrals? As I said, we are now working on this proposal.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-177	Madam President, I would like I do not know how many debates I have stood here and listened to exactly the same speech from Morgan Johansson. Self-righteousness and historical revisionism know no bounds whatsoever. When we Moderates proposed temporary residence permits instead of permanent ones, Morgan Johansson said that we were no longer people. He was not at all interested in tightening up immigration. These are facts: During ten years, 2011 to 2019, Sweden has granted 1.2 million residence permits. One third of them were asylum-related. A majority of the permits were granted during the years 2015– 2019, i.e. under the Government Löfven. In 2015 and 2016, Sweden granted the highest number of applications in all EU countries – under the Government of Löfven. It is clear that asylum immigration today, in the midst of the Corona crisis, is lower than during the refugee crisis in 2015. Anything else would be unreasonable. But immigration is not low. In 2019, we were six in the EU in terms of the number of asylum seekers. And there is no self-sufficiency among all those who have come. Yet the Minister for Migration is satisfied. He already seems to have forgotten in 2015 and that what Sweden needs is a long-term, tight and sustainable policy. Why else would he put forward proposals that increase immigration to Sweden? How much the government increases immigration and how much the cost will be, nobody knows. When the government is to describe the consequences of the historically generous new basis for adult residence permits without grounds of protection, it does so with a single sentence: a proposal for a residence permit for certain adults is also deemed to result in more people being granted a residence permit compared to the Committee's proposal. ..................................................... Only one sentence in the impact assessment is substandard. However, I wonder whether the Minister for Migration has read his own impact assessment. He accuses me of not having read the Migration Board's analysis, but they, too, rightly criticise the impact statement that the government describes in a single sentence. I would like Morgan Johansson to develop the impact assessment in this House. How much will immigration increase? What are the financial consequences? And how are we going to cope with integration when you increase immigration? I would like an answer to that.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-184	Madam President, I would like Now we are talking about the proposal for a new humanitarian and humanitarian basis. I have the Swedish Immigration Service's referral here, and they write like this: When Maria Malmer Stenergard says that this means that there will be many more asylum applications to Sweden, she therefore has no evidence, at least not in the Migration Board's referrals. It's a fact. Is this the first time Maria Malmer Stenergard has stood and warned that there will be many more asylum applications? No, it's not. This has been done by Maria Malmer Stenergard and the Moderates year after year, fallen in the quartet. I can give you some examples. We introduced ID controls in 2015. When we then abolished the ID controls in 2017, the Moderates had turned 180 degrees from the fact that they were unable to vote through them in this House. When we abolished them in the spring of 2017, the Moderates' attitude was suddenly that abolishing ID controls would be a disaster. Then it could sound like this in the debate– I am now showing a newspaper headline: The Moderates are warning of a new wave of refugees. It was 2017 and Anna Kinberg Batra. I also have another article here where Johan Forssell says that this will increase the pressure on already heavily strained municipalities. So it sounded then, in 2017, when we removed the ID controls. Were there more asylum applications after you alerted? No, it didn't. The number of asylum applications decreased by 4,000 between 2017 and 2018. The following year, when we introduced the High School Act and the legislation on unaccompanied minors, it was the same from Maria Malmer Stenergard and the Moderates as to how this would lead to more unaccompanied minors coming. Did that happen? No, it was just the opposite. The number of unaccompanied minors decreased in the following years. When we finally increased the possibilities for family reunification in 2019, it was also the same. I have here a debate article from Maria Malmer Stenergard herself in which she says that the government is now presenting proposals that will increase the number of asylum seekers and increase family reunification. Did this result in more family reunions? No, they went down too. And the number of asylum applications is now lower than it has been in 20 years. My point, Madam President, is that we have repeatedly heard this from the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. You're running parallel now. You're like twin parties. You can barely be separated anymore. You have both stood in this Chamber, every time in recent years, saying that if you do this or this, the number of asylum applications will increase and we will have a new refugee crisis. Time and again I've said, sit down! Take it easy! It won't be like that. And time and again, Madam President, it is I who have been right and you who have been wrong. It'll be like that this time, too. As I said, the legislation we are now working on is the strictest legislation in almost 40 years. It will be below the EU average in essential parts in terms of rigour, and it will be borne in mind that we do not again end up in a new crisis like this. Perhaps at some point, Madam President, the Moderates would start to learn from the mistakes and the alarming messages they have had in the past and start to think about their tone and whether they can continue to run in the same direction. This bill will not lead Sweden into a new refugee crisis.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-193	Madam President, I would like It is always very interesting to hear Morgan Johansson talk about the tone of the debate. With regard to the opinion of the Migration Board, I have to say that it is quite dishonest for the Minister of Migration to interpret what he is doing. They criticise the fuzzy provisions, which they do not know how to interpret. They also say that those covered by the provision will increase over time, i.e. that more will be able to benefit from it. And it is clear: The more generous the rules we signal that we have, the more people will go to Sweden. The research knows that, and Morgan Johansson knows that too. Yet Morgan Johansson is now again here trying to give the impression that he takes responsibility for Sweden and that he stands for a tight immigration. At the same time, the Social Democrats in proposals for proposals create new loopholes, new amnesties and new ways into Sweden, not infrequently for groups without protection reasons. Do not stand here, Morgan Johansson, and say that you want to reduce immigration to Sweden when the government at the same time puts forward proposals to increase it! It's, frankly, dishonest. The increase in immigration increases the problems that we already see around Sweden's municipalities with overcrowding, dependency on subsidies and crime. Hopelessness spreads into ever deeper exclusion. It is only those who turn a blind eye to Sweden's problems that can, in that situation, put forward proposals for increased immigration. We're not just risking a new crisis, Morgan Johansson. We are in the midst of a long-term crisis of integration as a result of large migrations of asylum. It is not humane to just open Sweden's borders and allow as many people as possible to enter the borders. The truly humane thing is to give people a true chance to enter society. We are not doing this with a continued high level of asylum reception.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-199	Madam President, I would like I just point out that Maria Stenergard has been saying this for four years: immigration will increase, the number of asylum seekers will increase, family reunification will increase and the number of unaccompanied minors will increase. Every time, she's been wrong. Has she learned nothing from all this and from all these cases? She continues with the same kind of message all the time, and so does she in this debate. I have explained what the Migration Agency actually says about whether there will be more granted first-time applications for residence permits as a result of the rule of law that we are now talking about. The Finnish Immigration Service's reply is clear: No, they do not make the assessment that it will be so. Maria Malmer Stenergard therefore has no evidence in that part. Then Maria Malmer Stenergard talks about increased immigration. Again, think about what it looks like right now! We have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. It's not just the pandemic last year. It did well that it fell further, but the figures were dramatically falling from 2015 to 2016, and then they remained at very low levels in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Then there were even lower levels in 2020. The reason why we have such low figures now is not primarily the pandemic, but the austerity that we implemented in 2015 and 2016. I can guarantee Maria Malmer Stenergard – because I was then also Minister of Migration – that I did not help to take Sweden out of the refugee crisis and then put proposals that would bring us back into the refugee crisis again. I can assure Maria Stenergard and everyone listening to this debate that this government will not make any such proposals.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-204	Madam President, I would like Hampus Hagman has asked me how the government plans to revise the proposal in the memorandum Changes to the smuggling law – The Swedish Customs Agency is given an increased opportunity to intervene against crimes in order to respond to the comments made on the effectiveness of the proposal. Hampus Hagman has also asked me if the government is planning to act in other ways to stop the progress of the theft leagues. The government is determined to fight back against international theft leagues. The Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard have achieved better cooperation in the practical work through the mission to combat foreign theft leagues submitted by the Government. The authorities have made use of joint releases, more coordinated intelligence exchanges and joint operational working groups on border crossings. The authorities have announced that cooperation will continue now that the Government mission has been finalized. The Government has also stated in the regulations for 2021 that the authorities will report how cooperation has continued to develop in order to prevent and make it more difficult for international crime networks to conduct criminal activities in Sweden. In addition, the Government has set up a special envoy against organised crime to support Swedish law enforcement authorities in international contacts. A permanent dialogue with countries of origin is needed on how to strengthen the application of legislation, regulations and practices. Sweden is also actively cooperating with other EU Member States to access international crime networks. The fight against international theft leagues must be a priority in the EU's law enforcement work. It is true that the Customs Service's activities are concentrated on the introduction of goods, and this is because goods are subject to import regulations rather than export regulations. It remains a priority to stop weapons, drugs and explosives from entering the country. With that, this government will not compromise. However, with the proposals in the memo, the Customs Administration will be able to contribute with interventions against theft leagues at the same time. The law enforcement powers of the Customs Agency are primarily linked to the liability for acts involving the entry into or exit from the country of goods which are largely contained in the Criminal Code for smuggling. However, it happens that the Customs Agency in its control activities encounters suspected crime that is not part of the agency's regular operations, such as the export of stolen goods. In these situations, the Customs Department provides the tools it needs to be able to intervene quickly and effectively against suspected crime. The government has also set up an investigation into more effective police measures in border areas. The investigation will consider whether legislative changes should be made to improve the effectiveness of law enforcement in these areas. These may include changes in the ability to conduct camera surveillance and the power to use coercive measures such as body search and vehicle search for crime prevention purposes. The proposal of the investigation shall primarily concern the Police Authority, but to the extent justified, the proposals may also apply to other authorities, such as the Finnish Customs Agency. The assignment will be presented in September this year. Expanding the Police Authority is one of the government's most important missions. This is why the government has during its term significantly increased the agency's funding, started two new police training courses, initiated a new, faster admission process to the training and worked to increase the attractiveness of the police profession. The goal is for Sweden to have 10,000 more police employees in 2024 than we had at the beginning of 2016. According to the Political Authority's forecast, the target will be reached and the number of police per capita will be higher in 2024 than in 2010. I also consider that a general review of the legislation governing the work and powers of the Customs Agency, including cooperation with other authorities, is justified, and the conditions for such a review are therefore currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-215	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Magdalena Andersson for a detailed answer to my questions. Part of this is entirely in agreement. This is particularly true of the need for more police officers and more training for police officers and the need for active EU cooperation to tackle international theft leagues. Cooperation between authorities is also highlighted, and it is of course important, but frankly, it is absolutely fundamental that the state authorities talk to each other. Everything else must be seen as a failure. The issue of the Customs Agency's powers has been debated extensively for many years now. There are good reasons for that. A large part of the thefts and burglaries that occur in Sweden are committed by international crime networks. It is about criminals who come here to commit crimes and then leave the country as soon as possible. Several organisations – the Swedish Trade Union, Swedish Insurance and many others – believe that these leagues have been able to commit hundreds of thousands of crimes in Sweden every year. These include thefts for several billion SEK each year: shop thefts, thefts of boat engines and car parts, burglaries on construction sites and much more. According to the police, theft leagues account for more than half of all residential offences and a large part of the theft from the elderly. This is certainly not a small question. It's gonna take a lot of effort. There is, of course, a need for a number of measures involving a number of different authorities. As I said, Magdalena Andersson points to some of these, and in itself they are good measures. However, it was on the initiative of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates that the Riksdag decided in December 2018 that the Government would produce new legislation that gives the Customs Agency's staff increased powers. The government sent out proposals for legislative changes last autumn. A large number of referrals have now responded, and it is clear from the replies that what has been proposed so far will not be enough. The Customs Agency is proposed to be empowered to retain suspected persons and stolen goods detected during regular customs controls. However, since regular customs controls are in principle always carried out when goods are imported, the Finnish Customs will not be able to detect stolen goods coming out of the country. In 2019, only 350 of the approximately 25 000 border controls carried out by customs were carried out for transport out of the country. That's barely 11⁄2 percent. So whoever gets a boat engine stolen, for example, must have great luck if the thieves are to get caught in one of the controls. The Minister for Finance replies that the proposals in the memo provide the Customs Authority with the tools it needs to intervene quickly and effectively in these situations against suspected crime. These situations therefore refer to the 350 checks on the way out of the country. International theft leagues hardly tremble because of that change. The Minister for Finance and the Government can hardly be satisfied that it looks like this. According to the Alarm Service organisation, the problem could be addressed if the export of stolen goods were to be considered a smuggling offence. This would give customs full powers to take samples, arrest suspects and seize the stolen goods. If the government is not satisfied with the current situation, why is it that the government is not considering making the shipment of stolen goods into a smuggling offence?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-224	Madam President, I would like It is good that there is a great deal of commitment to this issue also in the Riksdag. International theft leagues are a major problem. As Hampus Hagman points out, it is a major problem for traders whose shops are robbed, but also for individuals whose boat engines, for example, but also car parts, are stolen, in some cases repeatedly. As Hampus Hagman says, it is not a small problem. That is also why the government has taken a wide range of measures and continues to do so. The authority in Sweden that is best at stopping thefts and chasing stolen goods is the Police Authority. Swedish policemen are trained to do so and are professionals at both preventing theft and seizure of stolen goods. Those who work at Tullverket have a completely different education and other tasks. What we are doing now means that when Customs performs their duties and finds stolen goods, they have the opportunity to detain it and start investigations in a different way than before. But if you both want an effective fight against theft and want stolen goods to be hunted effectively, there is a profession in Sweden that is a professional at doing so. It's the police. If you mean that the Swedish Customs should do it instead of the police, the question is why we should not use those who are real professionals on that particular thing. Customs is a professional at its tasks. They are the ones they are trained to perform. Why is the desire not to use those who are trained and professionals in hunting stolen goods? All the random checks and everything that Hampus Hagman is talking about, the police have full authority to do today. Then the police need to do more. They may need additional tools. Perhaps there is a need for closer cooperation. And we need a lot more cops, which is currently being trained. But there is a point to the fact that it is they who are professionals in searching for stolen goods who have the main task to do so, is there not?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-228	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson is right that there is a commitment in Parliament to these issues. The government has put forward this proposal on the basis of an announcement by the Riksdag, which came about on the initiative of us in the Christian Democrats and the Moderates when we voted on our draft budget just over two years ago. That is why we are debating this today. There is definitely a commitment to the issues in Parliament. I wonder if there really is the same commitment in the government. Magdalena Andersson is right that the police are professionals at this, that the Police Authority needs to be larger and that there needs to be training many more police officers. The police are also in need of more resources to combat and prevent crime. It's all very important. We are in complete agreement on that. But for that reason, the Customs Office can also make a much greater contribution if they are given the right tools and if there are enough. The Christian Democrats have proposed that the Customs Agency and Customs' staff should be given increased powers in several ways and that the training of customs officials should be reviewed so that they can act more policely. We Christian Democrats also believe that the Customs Agency needs to be moved from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Justice and focused more on law enforcement. The Customs Office could do all these things much better with more resources and more powers. That is also why, two years ago, we Christian Democrats made a large contribution of SEK 90 million to the Customs Agency. We have helped to strengthen customs. We want customs to be able to do even more things. The proposals that have now been put forward miss the mark. I also think it is under all the criticism that it only takes two years to act on the announcement by Parliament, and once the government does, it is with non-proposals, which will not lead to the resolution of crime as needed. I think that Magdalena Andersson seems to be too happy with the work that has been done. I'm very sorry about that. I would have liked the government to have shown a greater commitment to this issue and put forward proposals on, for example, changes to the smuggling law proposed by Alarmtjänst. Then the problems could be overcome.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-234	Madam President, I would like I think it is naive to think that a change to the smuggling law would lead us to overcome the problems. If so, why did the Christian Democrats not make that change in the eight years they were in government? It's not that simple. More and other measures are needed. There is one thing I think Hampus Hagman is not responding to. As I said, we have an authority in Sweden that has a profession that is professional in and trained and recruited to prosecute crimes, hunt criminals and seize stolen goods. We have another authority, the Customs Agency, which trains and recruits its staff for another purpose, because it is another activity. If we now need to increase the accumulated resources and spend extra money on stopping these crimes and theft leagues, is it not better to invest in those who are professionals in hunting theft leagues rather than in customs, who are professionals on something else? We still have to bet more money. I assume that the Christian Democrats do not want customs to do less with import controls. On the contrary, they must increase. There are too many weapons, too much explosives and too much drugs in Sweden. The government has repeatedly made major contributions to customs so that they will work more actively to stop the introduction. I don't want to see a situation where customs work less on the import and start working more on the exit so that we get more weapons, explosives and drugs in our streets and squares. That is not what Sweden needs. We need to increase the overall resources if we are to do more. But if we are to increase the pooling of resources, is it not better to invest these resources in those who are professionals in hunting theft leagues? I find this a little hard to understand. It's about recruited, trained and experienced people. Aren't those the people we're going to spend our resources on? Surely that must be a more effective way of spending taxpayers' money.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-238	Madam President, I would like I think I answered all these questions. The police need more resources. It also needs to be many more police officers. The Customs Department needs to help combat crime. Magdalena Andersson is trying to make it sound like we want the Swedish Customs to do fewer import controls. That is completely wrong. Last week, we Christian Democrats had a proposal in a vote here in this House to increase postal barriers to control more types of goods entering Sweden. As I said, we have also contributed by making large contributions to the Customs Agency. In the last budget that we got through in this House, it was about SEK 90 million. I think that Magdalena Andersson paints a very strange opponent that she then debates against. The government has made a proposal, but in the autumn it has become clear that this is not enough. A number of referrals point this out. This will not mean any more exit controls. This is written not least by customs itself in its reply. I believe that we must take on board the criticisms of the consultative bodies. I appeal to the government to take on board the criticism and revise the proposal so that it becomes really powerful and once and for all can stop the gangs of theft. This is certainly not a small problem. Now we have to do something.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-242	Madam President, I would like In the previous speech, Hampus Hagman believed that the gangs of theft would be stopped by changing the smuggling law, and now he believes that this would happen by amending this part of the customs legislation. I think Hampus Hagman is wrong. I fully share Hampus Hagman's view that we need better control of the stolen goods being taken out of the country. That is why we have taken several measures and called for better cooperation between the authorities. We have vigorously expanded the Police Authority, doubled the number of police training places and started two new police colleges. We are also looking at whether the police need other tools to be able to work more effectively against international theft leagues. However, I do not think I hear any argument from Hampus Hagman for why customs should do the police's work. I fully share the view that it may be useful to have more exit controls, especially if intelligence is made. The authorities consider that this is the most effective way of working. However, these tools already exist today. The police have every opportunity in the world to control the export of stolen goods. Let us therefore invest in the police who are professionals in this. Then they can take strong action against the international theft leagues.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-245	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to make any changes to the car subsidy in order to compensate for the increased annual cost of vehicle taxes so that disabled people can also have the necessary vehicles. Lars Beckman has also asked me what impact assessment was made by the Government Office to ensure that the increased vehicle tax does not adversely affect Sweden's malfunctioning and whether the Government Office has now produced the material that I need to answer the question and, if so, what conclusions I have drawn from that basis. The introduction of the bonus – the Malus system for light vehicles was preceded by a public investigation. The government sees it as crucial that Sweden reduces greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector and reaches Sweden's climate targets. Bonus – the Malus system contributes to this by charging higher taxes on new vehicles with higher emissions and giving bonuses to more environmentally friendly vehicles. The aim is for the system to steer towards a higher proportion of environmentally friendly vehicles in new car sales. In order to promote participation in society for adults and children with disabilities, car support is a significant benefit. On 1 October last year, new provisions came into force on the basis of the Government's proposal for improved car support opportunities. The amended rules aim to increase the effectiveness of the aid. In this context, the level of additional car subsidy payments was also increased in order to increase compensation for car purchase costs. I would also like to emphasise that the government is constantly following both the issue of people with disabilities and their relatives' opportunities to take part in car support and environmental management within the bonus – the Malus system.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-248	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. As we all know, Sweden's disabled people have had a tough time since the government took office in 2014. The government has systematically cut back on support for disabled people. I'm thinking of LSS and personal assistance. I am also thinking of the debate I took part in earlier this week, which was about people in daily activities who are pushed out of the activity compensation and instead end up in municipal support. This is what the government does with open eyes. With the government's budget, for example, thousands of people will lose their personal assistance. This is fully in line with the statement made by the Minister of Finance in Ekot 2016. She then spoke of cutting back aid for people with disabilities to finance the refugee crisis. Madam President, I would like It is of course with these glasses that you should also see why the government is now doing this to Sweden's disabled people who are dependent on minibuses. I don't know how familiar the Minister of Finance is. One of my questions was the impact assessment carried out by the Minister for Finance and the Ministry of Finance. A minivan is for transporting wheelchairs and per-mobiles. My example concerns a family of children in Gävle with two disabled children. It is about being able to move and transport the wheelchairs in a minibus. I have asked the Minister for Finance a written question. In her answer, she says you should buy a smaller car. I have asked another minister and got the same answer: Buy a smaller car! Madam President, I would like When you say that, you're not familiar with the subject matter. If you could put a per-mobile in a golf course, you'd probably do it. We are now talking about families and people who are totally dependent on minivans in order to be able to move around and their family. How is the system designed, and why have I awakened this interpellation? Yes, it is just as the Minister for Finance says, that you can get a purchase grant. For example, two teachers in Gävle who have two disabled children can receive 30 000 SEK in the purchase allowance. They may receive up to 40 000 SEK in procurement grants. But, Madam President, the minibuses we are talking about now then cost up to 40 000 SEK per year in penalty tax – or perhaps 30 000 if you buy a slightly smaller minibus. However, for one of the most common vehicles used, it is 40,000. 40,000 times three is 120 000 kroner. It will be the penalty tax for you or your relatives to be able to move in a wheelchair. But just as the Minister for Finance says, you can get 30,000 in procurement grants. Madam President, I would like In my world, this means a penalty tax on disabled persons of 90 000 to 100 000 kroner. Is that reasonable? No, we don't think the Moderates do. We do not think that Sweden's disabled people in need of mobility and car should be taxed in this way. About Minister for Finance and Minister Lena Hallengren's answer is a small car! I still have to ask: Which cars does the government think about? What cars can take two per-mobiles? That is where the Minister for Finance owes the answer. If the Ministry of Finance has carried out an impact assessment and it is fully aware that Swedish families with disabled children need minibuses, it is remarkable if this tax has been deliberately introduced. My question remains: what impact assessment has the government and the Minister for Finance done?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-258	Madam President, I would like I have previously had an interpellation debate with Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson where she also told me that a family with two permobils will have to look around for a smaller car. The finance minister would then go back to the department and see what a permobil weighs and how big it is. But I've found out for the Minister of Finance. A per - cell phone is about six feet [61 cm] wide and six feet [120 cm] long and weighs a few hundred pounds. A family with two per-mobiles does not have many vehicles to choose from, but needs to have a minibus, which would incur a bonus – malus – i.e. malus – of approximately SEK 40 000 per year upon new purchase. 40 000 a year for three years is a lot of money for a family where there are functional variations and who need to live a normal life. The bonus– the malus will now hit hard on new purchases. There are not many alternative vehicles in the size class 3 1⁄2 tonnes to choose from, but they will be relegated to a second-hand market. On that market, vehicles are bought abroad. Our Swedish environmental policy that the S-MP government stands for will mean that on Swedish roads there will be older vehicles with old technology that do not reach the highest level of safety. But it will be in our neighbouring countries. Here too, the ranking between Sweden and other European countries will cause Sweden to get a slanted seat and end up further down in technology and environmental issues. The groups that need larger vehicles are families where there are functional variations, craftsmen and horsemen. The horse people need a big car to pull the horse trailer. The alternative will be a smaller horse truck, which you call a B-shorter. They have no alternatives to their cars, and if there are alternatives, they are expensive. Otherwise, the penalty tax, Malus, will lead to the purchase of used cars elsewhere – not from Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister about bonuses – Malus, especially Malus, will affect the car park on our Swedish roads, that is, we have a car park that does not reach the latest safety or the latest technology.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-264	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to debate when words you have never said are put in your mouth. I looked at the question answer where Lars Beckman claims that I have said that you should buy a smaller car. That's not what it says in the answer to the question. You refer to the interpellation debate, and I really cannot recall that I would have said something like that in an interpellation debate. If I'm mistaken, I'm happy to be corrected, but I really don't remember. And I've read the question answer, and that's not how I wrote in the question answer. It will be a little difficult to debate then. There is a bonus – malus, and there is the car support. BONUS – malus aims to change the fleet of vehicles to become a more environmentally friendly fleet. It is important to reduce climate change. Then there is the car support and the benefit that exists for people with disabilities or who have children with disabilities. They can get a subsidy to buy a car, perhaps a special vehicle, and it may also be that there is a cost to rebuild the vehicle. There are two different systems. With bonus – malus the following applies. Of course, if you need a car that can take two per-mobiles, it will be a large and heavy car that also emits a lot. Then there'll be a malus on that car. If I understand correctly, Ford Transit is a car that can take two per-mobiles. A new one costs about half a million. The information produced by the department officials shows that a heavier car produces a higher malus, from 26 000 to 32 000. It is clear that there may be individual variations if you rebuild the car or buy one that is heavier. Then there will be a cost increase over three years in 6,000. Instead, if you have a Volkswagen Multivan, which also costs about half a million, or one of the heavier, which becomes more expensive by more than half a million, the malus goes from 18 000 to 23 000. These are tasks that officials have picked up at the Ministry of Finance. Then there will be a cost increase of between SEK 5 000 and SEK 6 000 per year for three years. At the same time, the government has improved car support so that you can get higher levels of car support. Now the car subsidy is not my question, but the data I have received shows that you can get 40 000 in increased car support from 1 October last year. That, of course, can make things easier. Having said that, buying a car of half a million means a very high cost to a family, especially if you have a normal income. There, of course, the car benefit is an important part. But if there is something that should be discussed here, it is not to redo the entire bonus – the Malus system because it is an important governing effect for the entire Swedish people. However, we must, of course, look at car support for people with disabilities or with disabled children who are adequately given the rules that exist. The increase we made in car support in October is, of course, part of such a policy.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-269	Madam President, I would like Then we'll use the finance minister's own figures. So there will be a penalty tax on a minivan of SEK 70,000 in three years, and you can get a car subsidy of SEK 30,000. This means that the family loses 40 000 to 50 000 SEK. It is, of course, a totally deplorable system. As the Minister for Finance says, these vehicles are expensive in purchasing anyway. I assume, Madam President, that when I receive a written reply from a Minister, the Government is represented by the Government. In a written answer from Lena Hallengren, who has been given on a question with the same subject as now, it appeared that smaller cars are in most cases not only cheaper but also more fuel-efficient and thus a less burden on the environment. Madam President, I would like Not only do you blame families with children who need a car because they have per-mobiles, you blame the families and you think they are environmental criminals. The reality is that they are in great need of the vehicles. They can't opt them out. It is not possible to put two per-mobiles in a Golf, and I should not have to tell the Minister for Finance and other government representatives. When you make such a dramatic increase in taxes that beats tough against families with children in Sweden who depend on wheelchairs, permobils or other assistive devices – hygiene chairs, breathing equipment or personal assistants – I assume that an impact assessment has been carried out. It is sad if an impact assessment has been carried out and a system has been introduced that is directly targeted at Sweden's malfunctioning. But if you haven't done an impact assessment and let a system like this through, it's actually just as sad, because the families we're talking about have the difficulty of making everyday ends meet. They have difficult enough rides to assistive centres and rides to habilitation training. It could be such a simple thing as going to see Grandma and Grandpa. Then you have to bring mobiles and perhaps personal assistants. It cannot be the intention, Madam President, that disabled people in a welfare country such as Sweden should not be able to move by car. It is just as the Minister of Finance said: already with today's bonus – Malus you get a penalty tax of 18 000 – 20 000 SEK per year, and it gets even higher from 1 April. It is not reasonable, and it is not reasonable for a minister to give environmental reasons to Sweden's disabled. They have not chosen that situation. They can't opt out of the car. There are no electric cars; there are no alternatives to these cars except possibly national transportation service and transportation service. But it is fully in line with the policy of this government. It is entirely in line with the Minister for Finance's statement in Dagens Eko 2016, which received tremendous attention – that we should cut back support for Sweden's disabled to finance in this case the refugee crisis. I do not believe that popular support exists, Madam President. I do not believe that popular support exists to remove personal assistance for those who need the support of society most. I do not believe that popular acceptance exists for people to be kicked out of the activity compensation to go on the municipal support. And, Madam President, I do not believe that the support is available from the Swedish people because those who need wheelchairs and need to be able to move cannot afford to buy new cars. It is a mockery to say that you should buy smaller cars when there are no alternatives.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-276	Madam President, I would like I want to tell you about a family at Tjörn. They have a guy like in the middle of youth, on his way up to adulthood, had bad luck and broke his neck. The father tells us that they have now imported a car from the United States that can meet the needs of the family so that they can go out and drive and so on. But they realize that with the current system they will never be able to afford to buy a new car in order to adapt it to the unique circumstances of their family. If I interpret the Minister of Finance's answer correctly, she may come back with improvements for the family at Tjörn so that they are given the opportunity to adapt a car instead of being taxed with a fine of SEK 40 000 per year in order to be able to function as a normal family. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Finance when such support for families such as this, who need to be able to get a per-mobile into their vehicle, can be in place.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-279	Madam President, I would like Now I have read Lena Hallengren's answer, and I do not see in it any call for how families who need permobil should handle their car purchases. I don't read that in her answer. The whole government is of course behind the government's policy, but if a Member of Parliament wants to ask more about exactly how a Minister has thought in his formulation, it is perhaps better to ask that Minister. When I read the answer, I do not see any call for families with per-mobiles to buy cars that do not fit per-mobiles. Of course, different people can interpret different things, but I don't see it in that answer. There is, of course, an opportunity to ask the Minister here. What I was trying to say in my answer is that I think it is very good that we have a car support in Sweden in order to make it easier for families that have children with disabilities and for people with disabilities so that you can move around in society. It is a basic condition for you to be able to move and live as good a life as possible. I think it is good that we have that support. The government has also reformed the car subsidy. We have raised the levels that you can get in car support precisely because we think it is important that even people with disabilities should be able to move out in the community and not stay at home because you do not have the opportunity to transport. Having said that, one can certainly discuss the levels of car support. As I said, the government has just raised them. Even with the car support, it is, as I said earlier, very expensive to buy a new car. All new cars are expensive, but new big cars are of course the most expensive. The second question is about bonuses – malus. Cars are a big cost for people who need a per-mobile, not least if you need two per-mobiles. The purchase is a cost, the malus is a cost in addition and the renovation is a cost. However, with all due respect for this, I think it might be better to discuss this issue within the framework of the car benefit rather than within the framework of the bonus – malus. Bonus – Malus has a purpose. The percentage of cars hit by malus for families who need two per-mobiles is quite small, but the system has a very important purpose in controlling the entire vehicle fleet. If you want to solve problems for a small part of all those who pay malus, it is perhaps better to look at the car benefit than to sweep out the whole bonus – malus, so to speak. Then the Moderates want to do it anyway, so there are other reasons for it. However, in order to respond to this particular argument, I think it is better to look at the car benefit.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-284	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that car support is an important part of the welfare system in Sweden. We fully agree on that. But this is the problem with government policy: one hand does not know what the other is doing, and that has consequences. In this case, the possibilities for Sweden's disabled people to have a reasonable vehicle are severely limited. It is severely limited, for they can receive 30 000 SEK in grants but have to pay 120 000 SEK in penalty tax for three years. It goes without saying, Madam President, that it limits extremely strongly. I interpret the last sentences in the last speech by the Minister for Finance as being made clear that this is a problem. She says that in that case you should consider changes in the car support. But, Madam President, I suppose you should have done that before. That is why I have asked in my interpellation what impact assessment the Government and the Minister for Finance have done on how this can affect, for example, Sweden's disabled people. The Minister for Finance now has the opportunity to come back in his last speech and, of course, to apologise to all those families with children whose ability to invest in cars is now limited, but above all, to talk about what the Minister intends to do for Sweden's disabled people. You might think it's a small target group. One might think that only a few hundred or thousand cars per year are involved. But for the individual family living in Gävleborg it is very important if you can invest in a car and bring two permobils or not.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-290	Madam President, I would like Why does one hand not know what the other does? The truth is, we've raised the car support. It's not a coincidence. We have increased it by up to SEK 40,000; it was done from October 1, last year. So there are better opportunities to get car support than before. This is not my area but Lena Hallengren, but you can get a basic grant of 30 000 SEK per car and a purchase grant of up to 40 000. You can, if I understand it correctly, get 50 000 or 60 000 if you need a car where you can stay in the wheelchair during the trip. You can also get support for some devices with SEK 16,400, for example, if you need an automatic gearbox. This is information I have received from the officials – this is not my area. I think it is very good that we have this support, and I fully support it. I also think it is good that we have raised it. When we talk about the assistance allowance in general, Lars Beckman only records a very small part of what I have said. In Sweden, the opportunities to get assistance are among the world's best. I'm very proud of that. And precisely because I believe that this is an important reform and that it is important for this to remain, I want to protect the system and thereby prevent cheating. What I was talking about in Ekott was our work to try to prevent cheating. There I can see that the Moderates in their budget movements write things like that the cost of assistance compensation has increased for a long time and is expected to continue to increase and that unfortunately there is too much cheating. It actually sounds quite similar to what I said in Ekott, so maybe you should clean your own door before you accuse others.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-295	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked whether I intend to work in the EU for further restrictive measures against Russian representatives given an attack on Aleksej Navalnyj, whether measures directed against Nord Stream 2 could be part of the EU's action and how I intend to deal with the Russian violations of the European security regime during the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE. Kerstin Lundgren has asked whether I am prepared to pursue the demand for Magnitsky sanctions against Navalny's attackers and further restrictive measures in view of what is happening in Russia and what further measures I am prepared to pursue in order to mark the development we are seeing in terms of freedom of expression and human rights in Russia. Margareta Cederfelt has asked whether I intend to be a driving force in the European Union for stronger sanctions following the arrest of Navalnyj and the treatment of opponents in Russia, whether I am prepared to work for the use of the new system of sanctions for human rights violations by the European Union and whether I am prepared to raise the issue of Russian money laundering. The government is deeply concerned about the arrest and conviction of Navalnyj. On the same day that Navalnyj was arrested in Moscow after his return, I called on the Russian Government to release him and respect his human rights, including his civil and political rights. I referred to the fall of Navalny and the worsening human rights situation in Russia at my meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov in Moscow on 2 February. At the press conference afterwards, I also repeated the call for his release. A Swedish diplomat followed the entire trial process on 2 February, together with a number of diplomats from other EU countries. In addition, the anti-Navanny Navalnyj remains undisclosed in Russia. The government continues to support the EU's common demand for an independent investigation into the attack and the restrictive measures adopted against Russia in October 2020 to that end. The EU discussion on Navalnyj at the Foreign Affairs Council on 25 January sent a clear signal that the EU is united in its condemnation of the mass arrests and violence that followed the return of Navalny and in the call for his immediate release. We continue to monitor developments and do not currently exclude any measures under existing sanctions regimes, while at the same time working towards an effective, legally secure and credible use of the MR sanctions regime. It is essential that the EU remains united in its common Russia policy. The Council will have reason to come back to the matter at its meeting this month. Sweden is and will continue to be a driving force in the EU for human rights, democracy and the rule of law to remain an integral part of the EU's policy towards Russia. Sweden will also continue to regularly address violations of human rights in international fora such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Sweden endorsed the EU statement made in the Council of Europe on 20 January on Navalnyj, where the statement by the High Representative of 18 January was reproduced on behalf of the EU. At the last session of the UN Human Rights Council in September/October 2020, Sweden, both individually and together with the EU, condemned the assassination attempt on Navalnyj. The OSSE is one of the few remaining open channels for regular dialogue on security issues in our region. Safeguarding the European security regime is a cornerstone of the Swedish Presidency. The principles and commitments that constitute the European security regime are indicative of our commitment to conflict resolution in the region. As Chairman of the OSSE, on this basis, we will seek constructive dialogue with all participating states, including Russia. I am always defending the OSCE's common commitments and principles and I am prepared to denounce violations of them. The government's approach to Nord Stream 2 is based on a broad analysis of the project's energy and climate political, legal and security implications for European interests. Respect for international law is an essential interest in Swedish security policy. I do not rule out the possibility that Nord S tream 2 may be discussed when the Council meets for the planned discussion on Russia, while I note that the German Federal Government is clear that they are continuing to support the project at this stage. Swedish service personnel regularly meet Russian counterparts for discussions on money laundering and terrorist financing in the framework of their participation in the Financial Action Task Force, a technical organisation that issues global standards in this area. The Russian system was evaluated by the F ATF in 2019 and the report published publicly describes in detail the Russian authorities' ability to combat money laundering and terrorist financing.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-306	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This week we have seen a particularly absurd sentence against a very brave man in Moscow. Aleksej Navalnyj received a three-and-a-half-year sentence for not reporting to the local police for a previous conditional sentence, a sentence for which he was also compensated by the Russian side because it did not meet the criteria for legal certainty. He has not been able to report to the local police station for a very simple reason, Madam President. He has been cared for in Germany after being subjected to an attempted poison murder by the same Russian authorities that have now convicted him. He has been in a coma, awakened from the coma and cared for, so of course he has had difficulties reporting to the local police. Besides, he's obviously in court even today. Madam President, I would like In Russia, from the farthest Asia to the western part of the Federation at the Gulf of Finland, there are now demonstrations – people talking about underpants and referring to Putin and people waving toilet brushes and referring to Putin's palace. Then it is important to emphasise that we, who are now pointing this out, are not russophobic. On the contrary, we are on the side of the Russian people. It is they who are demonstrating and precisely Aleksej Navalnyj that we highlight – against shoplifting, corrupt men in the Kremlin. And we're talking about poison killers. Novitjok is a chemical weapon. There have now also been media reports that the 55-year-old doctor who cared for Aleksej Navalnyj is dead. Journalist collective Bellingcat has shown that the underwear poisons, directed against Navalnyj, have been in the places where three other unsolved murders have been committed in recent years. From Britain we know from the past that he has sent out henchmen to try to murder Skripal in Salisbury. That is why, Madam President, I think it is important that we now show clarity towards Russia. We must strike with tangible means, and it is the economy that works, both against individuals who move their money from Russia to Europe and against the structure itself. Madam President, I would like Yesterday, together with Fredrik Malm from the Liberals, I had a debate article saying that a suitable way of hitting Russia would be sanctions against Nord Stream 2. I know that Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party are doing the same thing. The truth is that I know that six parties in Sweden's parliament have the view that sanctions should be applied against Nord Stream 2: Left Party, Swedish Democrats, Center Party, Liberals, Christian Democrats and Moderates. I think that the government should step up, as it says in modern Swedish, and also state that it is reasonable to use economic sanctions, such as a united Europe to stop Nord Stream 2, as a mark against what is now happening in Putin's Russia. Madam President, I would like This must, of course, be done in cooperation and cooperation with others, within the framework of the EU and within the framework of equal-minded countries – not least to convince Germany, which is perhaps the country most opposed to sanctions against Nord Stream 2. Then you have to do it, and then you have to be clear. Ronald Reagan once told Mr. Gorbatjov about the Berlin Wall, tear down this wall! I would like us to have a Foreign Minister who could say to Mrs Merkel in Germany: stop that gas pipeline!
i-92f00522f0a1501f-316	Madam President, I would like Today, the most prominent representative of the Russian opposition is Aleksej Navalnyj. He has had the courage to challenge corruption, its system owner in the Kremlin, Putin's rule and thereby the FSB. He also had the audacity to elude his attackers by surviving the poisoning with novithok, the chemical poison confirmed by Swedish and French laboratories and by OPCW. Having taken note of Foreign Minister Lavrov's comments on this, as a Swedish person, I would protest strongly when questioning the credibility of our laboratories' conclusions on the chemical poison. It was a poison that, despite obvious attempts, the Russian authorities could not hide when Navalnyj reached the care in Germany. Navalnyj has been tried repeatedly for various politically motivated accusations, and he is not the only one in Russia, unfortunately. A number of his cases have also been examined by the European Court of Human Rights and, as indicated by Mr Wallmark's speech, the European Court of Human Rights sentenced Russia to the detriment of the last Kafka trial in the Russian court, where Navalnyj was sentenced to three and a half years in prison. Navalnyj chose voluntarily to return to Russia. He had the audacity not to be intimidated away from his homeland. There are many who the regime wants to scare out of the country in order to avoid competition. They want to avoid there being any representation of any opposition to governance. The Kremlin and Putin are about to face parliamentary elections. You've been clear about your fear of Navalnyj. Now they want him away from both the parliamentary elections and the forthcoming presidential elections. Madam President, I would like When Navalnyj returned, he was arrested. After a demonstrably unjust process, he has been taken to Matrosskaya Tisjina, the prison where Magnitsky was tortured to death. This happens while those responsible for the poisoning of Navalnyj go free, just like those responsible for the torture of Magnitsky. Those who do the poisoning go free from punishment while those who suffer poisoning go to prison or are murdered. This, of course, cannot be okay for Sweden or the EU. We need to be clear here. That's why I have to say I'm a little surprised. I have heard the Foreign Minister's speech, but I have not heard an answer to my questions. My question was whether the Foreign Minister is prepared to push the demand for Magnitsky sanctions against Navalny's attackers and further restrictive measures in view of what is now happening in Russia. I also asked if additional measures that the Minister might be prepared to pursue in order to mark the development of freedom of expression and human rights in Russia. I didn't hear the answers to those questions.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-323	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. Yes, what is happening in Russia upsets, dismays and calls for action. Navalnyj has defended himself in court. He was convicted. There's something that can't surprise anyone. It is important that we in the democratic Western world stand side by side with the Russian democrats who are now in the streets and squares – who are imprisoned, arrested and beaten. If we're not on their side, who's gonna do it? The Foreign Minister mentioned the OSSE. I have to comment on a few things in this regard. I fully share the view of the Foreign Minister that dialogue is important. It's important to have a conversation. The OSSE has a role to play in that it is one of the few organisations in which Russia is still involved. At the same time, membership of the OSSE and the Swedish Presidency must not in any way interfere with Sweden's strong action within the EU. We shall act decisively in support of the democrats, in support of the correct legal processes in Russia, in support of the cessation of corruption and in support of the cessation of the influx of black money into large quantities into Europe. Obviously, the work carried out within the OSSE has not led to the cessation of anything. There has not been an end to the abuse. Mr Wallmark mentioned that there is another trial against Navalnyj today. The doctor who cared for him in Russia has died. More examples can be mentioned. The Secretary of State and I have previously debated the murder of Boris Nemtsov. Russia cannot continue in this way, and when I say Russia, I mean the political regime and ultimately Vladimir Putin. Someone has to stop. Someone has to act. The EU has weapons. I do not mean military weapons, but I mean the measures that can be taken in the form of economic sanctions and entry bans. Here, the Minister for Foreign Affairs can make an important difference and show that Sweden is not just sitting in court. Sweden holds the banner of democracy high and uses the instruments at its disposal. I mention this in view of the demonstrations and imprisonments that took place on Sunday. Nowadays, what is happening in Russia – how the abuse is carried out – does not stop at the words and testimony of demonstrators who have been imprisoned. There are pictures on social media. There are images that reach out in real time. Then it is important that we take the testimony seriously and on the right side act so that people who abuse, such as Putin, are held accountable and cannot continue to say one thing and do something else.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-331	Madam President, I would like We are closely following the development of internal politics in Russia, and we are very aware of how the democratic space is shrinking in that country. Opposition politicians are denied opportunities to stand as candidates. People's discontents are being met with assault from the police. I witnessed it myself when the sentence fell. I cannot swear that there were thousands, but there were an incredible number of police officers who came very quickly with full riot equipment and helmets and put up fences and imprisoned people who demonstrated against the verdict. The picture that I received when I spoke to civil society, such as Memorial, women's rights organisations, LGBTQ organisations and various parts of the human rights community, was clear: civil society is facing increasing pressure and being subjected to increasing repression. I received many concrete statements on this. This is, of course, illustrated by the circumstances surrounding Navalny's legal process and the arrests that have followed on the occasion of the demonstrations of the last three weekends. But it has also adopted a law package on so-called foreign agents, which makes it much more difficult for us in Sweden, for example, to support civil society. After all, we have a strategy for Sweden's support for democracy, human rights and the environment in Russia, which includes almost SEK 400 million. It is about promoting democratic development in Russia. Before I go into Nord Stream 2, I want to say something to Margareta Cederfelt. I know that Nemtsov means a lot to her; she often brings it up. As usual, of course, I went and honored Nemtsov's memory. He was a political friend of mine, and we did activities together in Moscow. Sweden has had a very extensive work on the Swedish approach to Nord Stream 2. It has been about the energy policy, legal and security implications of European interests and that respect for international law is an essential Swedish security interest. The issue of taking action against Nord Stream 2 is an issue that needs to be decided and discussed with the other Member States. I expect that issue to come up in the debate that the EU is going to have on the reactions to Navalnyj. Today Josep Borrell is in Moscow meeting Lavrov. And we had a longer conversation after my visit on Wednesday night. With regard to the Magnitsky laws, the EU has now adopted such a regime, but there are also other ways for the EU to act. There will certainly be a discussion at the FAC if it is the most appropriate regime to use. It has not been used in any specific case. I'll get back to the rest.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-338	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think that the description given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on her visit to Moscow a few days ago is a good one. It's just so bad; it's just so terrible. It is also honoured that it was a memorial ceremony to Boris Nemtsov's honor. But, Madam President and the Foreign Minister, with this background, action is needed. Sweden must have an opinion. I fully share the Foreign Minister's view that this should be done together. We shall do so with the European Union and like-minded countries, but we must have an opinion. Madam President, I would like Then I can say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, those who may listen to this debate from other EU countries and those from the Russian Federation who may follow it: there is a definite view in the Swedish Parliament. At least six parties believe that sanctions against Nord Stream 2 would be appropriate. If the Minister for Foreign Affairs wants support for any view that could be that of the government side – the government side is based on a rather fragile parliamentary basis – there is no doubt that we from the Swedish Parliament would say: Stop Nord Stream 2! We can't do this alone. But we can do it together with others, and we can do it together with others by also influencing Germany, which is the great country that will be the recipient of Russian fossil gas. What is also a problem is that the Social Democrats, Madam President, in other contexts have been very vague precisely in terms of using Nord Stream 2. I have seen it personally in the Nordic Council, where my group and also Kerstin Lundgren's group have pushed for sanctions in relation to Nord Stream 2 and that it should be pronounced by the Nordic parties. Even the Left Party did, but not the Social Democrats. It is, moreover, the same Social Democrats who made sure that Russia entered the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This isn't good enough. The description given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs must, by all reasonable standards, come to the conclusion: this must have consequences. It must lead to action. I think the other six parties in the Swedish Parliament can offer the government's two parties something: Use Nord Stream 2 as a means of sanction! Madam President, I would like Yesterday it was Question Time, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs participated in it. My colleague, Mr Rothenberg, then asked two specific questions and did not receive a real answer. I would like to repeat them, because now the Minister for Foreign Affairs has many more minutes: what has the Ministry for Foreign Affairs done, and what resources are set aside to coordinate activities with the Baltic countries and other like-minded people? These are very interesting and relevant issues, Madam President, because we are going to do this together. In addition, I had a question in my interpellation: what OSCE mechanisms does the Minister for Foreign Affairs intend in his role as president of the organisation to activate? These are good questions to which I hope you can find an answer, preferably on a day when Aleksej Navalnyj for the second time this week is being pulled by Mr Putin's powers in the Moscow court.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-348	Madam President, I would like Navalnyj is taken back to so-called court. It happens at the same time as the EU High Representative is in Moscow to meet Lavrov, something that has not happened for a very long time in the post of Crimea. Madam President, I would like I have taken note of the Foreign Minister's answers to my questions, and I read: But, Madam President, I asked what demands the government is prepared to pursue – not what others are doing or what is going on. When you put Navalnyj in prison where Magnitsky was tortured to death, the Magnitsky sanctions are an important signal, Madam President. We now have Magnitsky sanctions in place in the EU. We want to see it in Sweden too. There is a patent mouse test on the sanctions, because it would be appropriate at this point to join forces with others and use the instrument that we have to impose sanctions on those responsible for the abuse. It would also be reasonable to act in this way in relation to Nord Stream and to build pressure. Other countries are prepared to do so. Our Baltic neighbours are prepared to be much more clear in what they are driving, and they are even closer to Russia. Why must Sweden have such a low-key and generally descriptive attitude? Sweden should be able to be clear enough. I have no doubt that during the meeting with Lavrov, the Foreign Minister said that she felt that Navalnyj would be released. But the important thing is not just what is said in the quiet rooms, Madam President, but what you are prepared to drive in relation to our EU friends. It is something that we think is important that the Minister is prepared to do. It is also clear that we have a new administration in the United States, where both the new Foreign Minister and the President send out a clear signal to the Putin regime in Russia. It is possible that the Foreign Minister has received a letter asking for sanctions, a letter sent to President Biden by Navalny's organisation, with the names of 35 people who are designated as responsible, asking for those responsible for human rights abuses and individuals who have acted in the Navalny case to be clearly sanctioned to make it felt. Surely we should be able to join forces and push both within the EU and show the US and the new administration that Magnitsky sanctions are being imposed in the EU and in the US.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-355	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your previous reply, Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is no doubt where Hans Wallmark, Kerstin Lundgren and I stand when it comes to taking action. I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be able to state clearly that further action must be taken on the part of the European Union than has been done so far and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take the initiative on this. There are many of us who have believed that democracy is now at its bottom with regard to Russia. Unfortunately, it turns out time and again that it is wrong. New abuses are being committed against opponents and against democrats. The money continues to flow. This is demonstrated not least by the fact that Navalnyj is being put in a new trial today and how civil and other opposition organisations are also being subjected to violence and abuse, as the Foreign Minister has mentioned. There'll be a choice this fall, they say. But how can this really be called an election when there are no candidates to stand? Presumptuous candidates are put in prison and forbidden to stand as candidates. Voters may not dare to form an opinion and vote. There is no knowledge to form an idea of. This is not based on the foundations of democracy, and an important issue within the EU and in Sweden, I think, should be to stand up for democracy and for people's right to vote and to know that the elections are correct. Support for democracy in Russia is the title of my interpellation, and that is something I have asked about because it is so important. Let me quote Patrik Kronqvist from the Expressen when he writes that in order to support democracy both in Russia and at home, the most important thing we can do is to pull out the cord of the Russian money laundering machine. That is exactly what it is about, and that is what Aleksej Navalnyj has tried to do with his film about Putin's overwhelming palace. The film has been shown more than 100 million times. That says something. It also says that there is a great need to act. The fact that the Magnitsky laws have not been used is, of course, correct, but at some point must be the first to apply the EU's strong instruments. It can also strengthen transatlantic relations, as Biden has gone out saying that Russia must now be over and that the United States is prepared to act and no longer accept the abuses that are being done. I will stop at that, but I would like a more concrete answer from the Foreign Minister about what she will do and how she will act in the run-up to the EU Foreign Ministers' meeting on 22 February.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-363	Madam President, I would like I believe that we in this House are all in full agreement on the bizarre legal process, the unfair judgment and the terrible treatment that Mr Navalnyj has received. On the other hand, I can't help but think that it's a bit of a pity that people accuse me – and Sweden – of being a low-key person, talking in the quiet rooms and so on. I do not think that anyone who heard me at the press conference, which was followed by hundreds of journalists and became big in the media not only around Russia but everywhere, or saw the films from within the quiet rooms, which were then shown on television channels everywhere, agrees. There I very clearly demanded the release of Navalnyj, protested against the treatment that demonstrators have received and demanded the release of all of them. We also have joint talks in the NB8 circuit, i.e. the Baltic and Nordic countries, and a joint declaration on Navalnyj. I was also, as Members know, one of the very first foreign ministers to whom the American Foreign Minister, Mr Blinken, called and discussed, among other things, the situation in Russia. I pushed the sanctions at the last Foreign Minister's meeting, which was also the result: sanctions against poisoning. Sweden has also been active in helping to establish that it was really the neurotoxin novitjok that was used. One can say a great deal, but one cannot say that we have not been clear, have been successful in what we have demanded and have received a great deal of attention throughout Europe and other countries for the way in which we have dealt with this issue. As far as money laundering is concerned, the FATF, in particular, is an extremely tough mechanism, which is being used. Russia is also exposed to this. All countries receive this review precisely in order to prevent money laundering. And they don't put their fingers between them. It is a question of lowering the credit rating when this is detected. It is therefore the most effective mechanism for this. And Russia and other countries, among other things, continue to be monitored so that it works there. As Chairman of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE, I am also, of course, following commitments made by all the participating States to respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law. I think it is very important that we have a principled policy towards Russia, both from Sweden and from the EU. Then I think that the best way to maintain this policy is to have discussions between the foreign ministers and try to get joint action. I am not sure that the tactic proposed by Wallmark to shout at the top of Germany is the best way to get the toughest mechanisms to protest against this from the European Union.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-370	Madam President, I would like Today it was announced that Tomas Tobé, who is the leader of the Moderates Group in the European Parliament, has gathered our sister parties from Finland, Denmark, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia to declare that Nord Stream 2 should be a suitable sanction. Could the Social Democrats in the European Parliament, with sister parties from the very Nordic-Baltic circle, come together for the same thing? That would be desirable. I believe that a number of the EU Member States are very good at formulating words, including the High Representative who, after Ann Linde, is in Moscow today. But it is action that shows that we are on the side of the Russian people, and that is what is being asked for. Madam President, I would like Yes, I think there is a difference between the foreign policy line if Stefan Löfven is Prime Minister or if Ulf Kristersson is. I believe that a government under Ulf Kristersson's leadership would be much clearer in the European debate by saying: That's where there's a difference. I wish we could have a Swedish government that was driving that way. Madam President, I would like Therefore, given what we are now seeing with Aleksej Navalnyj, with the corruption and cleptocracy in Russia, but also with the popular resistance from eastern Asia to the western parts of the Gulf of Finland, I think that we should stand on the side of the Russian people. We are going to demand sanctions in the form of stopping Nord Stream 2, but also, as my colleagues have highlighted here, stand on the side that the rest of the free world is now doing with Magnitsky legislation and sanctions against a number of people. Madam President, I would like We are going to say to friends of Russian freedom: we are on your side! We're going to the underpants and palace builders say: There will be action!
i-92f00522f0a1501f-376	Madam President, I would like Principles are important, declarations are important and demands are of course important. But they must show that we are serious and that it is not just another principle, a declaration or a requirement. There must be action behind it. Sweden must also be able to demonstrate in action that we are prepared to move forward not only to say but actually to do something to support those who want to see sanctions against those who abuse human rights and those who hold a long nose against the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Madam President, I would like Russia's judicial system, the Kremlin, is doing this right now. A long nose is enough against the European Court of Human Rights, which concluded that the trial of Navalnyj, concerning the crime for which he is now in prison, was wrong. Nevertheless, you use this sentence and re-enter him for three and a half years. It is not possible to act as nothing has happened, because Russia obviously does not even care about the European Court of Human Rights. What, then, is it that says that the Kremlin and Putin rule would care about another declaration or a comment at a press conference that may never be so good? Sanctions are needed. Sanctions according to the Magnitsky model would be a clear signal to Russia. Sweden should do that. These are sanctions that follow the money, sanctions that mark against those who are responsible for what is now happening. And they have to hit it right. It can't be the way it is right now. Nord Stream can also clearly be there as a demand against Germany.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-381	Madam President, I would like It has been said here before that, of course, Navalnyj was discussed at the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. On several occasions calls were made for the immediate release of Navalnyj and the demonstrators detained. I am absolutely convinced that if the Minister for Foreign Affairs were to highlight these issues and also introduce the demand for extended sanctions at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers on 22 February, this would be supported by the Swedish Parliament. But it would also receive support in a large number of national parliaments among the EU Member States. Therefore, I would like to ask once again whether the Foreign Minister is prepared to initiate an extension of sanctions at the EU Council of Ministers. A simple yes would be a very welcome answer, not only in this House but also among the people who listen to the debate. Then I would also like to say that I am absolutely convinced that the Foreign Minister is running matters. I have sat at the OSCE Council of Ministers' meetings and heard the Swedish OSCE ambassador not using the OSCE terminology on crisis in and around Ukraine, but actually saying what it is about, namely the Russian aggression against Ukraine. I think that's good. But now do not lose your focus here because of the Presidency, but make sure to use the same terminology. And use it also when it comes to democracy in Russia and the release of Navalnyj and the imprisoned demonstrators.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-386	Madam President, I would like It's really good that it hasn't just become words. I think that Parliament should not reduce what it means with clarity and condemnation and being out in the press. It would be very dangerous if it became such a mood in the Riksdag that one does not realize how important this is and the reactions that have come. I assume that you are following Twitter with regard to the reactions that have come. Penalties have been imposed for the poisoning. And there will be a debate on extending sanctions at the next meeting. It is not that it will not be discussed or will not be taken up by me or anyone else. It is not that everyone else is sitting and doing nothing and that we must take the initiative. This initiative has already been taken. It has already been said that this will be discussed at the next meeting. So you don't have to worry about that either. Furthermore, it is of course as Margareta Cederfelt says – you have to expect criticism for how you express yourself. After I had been to Ukraine, I received very harsh criticism from the Russian side. They were not satisfied with the way they felt I had spoken. Of course, a consensus organisation should respect so-called agreed language. At the same time, I am also a foreign minister in Sweden and one of the EU's foreign ministers, and as such, I can speak without problems – also according to the OSSE regulations – as we say. Finally, I must say that no political government or society has the right to deny its citizens the right to speak and think freely. Navalnyj is one of many voices in Russia who want to protest against the state of affairs. He has paid a high price, and he must have our support.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-391	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me on what facts and circumstances I and the government have based their position on limiting a sport with great opportunities to keep a distance while shops have to decide for themselves as long as they decide whether it is possible to keep a distance. She has also asked me if I and the government have any plans to make decisions to allow competitions without audience even for those born in 2004 or earlier in sports where it is possible to keep a distance. She has also asked what major differences in the spread of infection or other reasons have formed the basis for my decision and that of the government to see differently at a competition without an audience where it is possible to keep a distance and a grocery store with several hundred customers. Sofia Westergren has asked me whether it will be possible in the future for equestrian sports and similar outdoor activities for young people born earlier than 2005 and, if the answer is yes to this question, what my forecast looks like for such an opportunity. Let me start with the fact that it has been clear to the government that the legislation we had prior to the temporary covid-19 law was not adapted to a pandemic of this kind. Especially the Law of Order proved to be a blunt tool, and it has been difficult to get accurate measures to prevent the spread of infection. I am the first to regret this but, at the same time, I am humbled by the difficulties of regulating and limiting activities with desirable precision regardless of the tools available. The importance of sport for public health, but also for each individual and for our common society, can hardly be overestimated. However, during the pandemic, it has been obvious that these activities must also be carried out in a way that minimises the risk of infection. I myself have had contact with large parts of the sports movement, including the Swedish Riding Association, and have taken part in their measures to reduce the infection. I have also worked throughout the pandemic to ensure that sports activities can be carried out safely and as soon as appropriate can be resumed at all levels, including by ensuring dialogue between the sports movement and the Public Health Authority. With the temporary covid-19 law, we now also have much better opportunities for more accurate measures. The government's assessment is that there is currently a need to ensure that all appropriate measures are taken to curb the spread of infection. The Government has therefore, following dialogue with the Public Health Authority, called on municipalities and regions to keep activities to which the public has access and which are not necessary closed until 21 February. Previously, sports, leisure and cultural activities for children and young people born in 2005 and later excluded from the recommendation to close down activities. The Public Health Authority also considers that sports and leisure activities should also be open to young people of upper secondary age, i.e. those born in 2002 and later. Thus, facilities and facilities should be open to sports and leisure activities even for young people of upper secondary school age, just as for younger children. The Pandemin has hit the sports movement hard. The problems that arise when people – children and adults – cannot play together for such a long time are difficult to deal with. The Government has therefore recently commissioned the Centre for Sport Research to investigate the effects of the coronapandemin on sport in Sweden in order to gain knowledge of the pandemic's effects on people's sports and to build a stronger sports movement in the future. Finally, let me highlight the importance of the work of the Corona Commission in this context. It will be very interesting to take note of the Commission's evaluation of the measures taken by the government and the relevant administrative authorities, regions and municipalities to deal with the pandemic and its effects.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-401	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The equestrian sport employs about half a million Swedes in leisure and competition. It is Sweden's third largest youth sport, with a lot of girls, and had a total of about 356,000 competition starts in 2019. An ordinary competition – Falsterbo or similar – has quite a lot of visitors, but a lot of competitions at local or regional level do not look like that at all. They want to have an audience, but in 2020 they managed – with good results – to hold a lot of competitions with a good distance and without an audience. In equestrian sports it is relatively easy to keep a distance, because you sit on a horse and have at least one horse length to the next rider. Many horses also find it a bit exciting to be at a competition; they can be a bit stingy and therefore need even more distance. The fact that you can have local competitions does not mean that there must be a lot of people exposed to infection. They may be able to arrange very casually with regard to officials, such as a judge, a secretary and a functionary. To that comes a rider and a horse that will compete and perhaps also a rider and a horse that will start thereafter. Ready! We can compare this with, for example, a store. Since 23 December, shops, shopping centres and training facilities, among other things, should determine a maximum number of persons allowed to stay in the premises at the same time in order to reduce congestion. The number of people in the premises should be adapted to the size, furnishing and ventilation facilities of the premises. When you compete on a horse you usually ride outdoors or in a large and airy riding house. However, when it comes to shops, the maximum number varies from store to store, and the measures need to be adapted to each shop. There is no specific model for how to calculate a maximum number, but the trader should make an individual assessment based on his retail environment. That's great, and a lot of people do this in a really good way. In my big local grocery store, there can be 450 people at the same time. Madam President, I would like One of my questions to the Minister is: On what facts and circumstances has the Minister and the government based the position to limit a sport with such great opportunities to keep its distance while shops are allowed to decide for themselves whether it is possible to keep a distance? It feels like the government either has poor knowledge of how it works or is not interested in the outcome of its decisions. One of my other questions to the Minister is: what major differences in the spread of infection or other reasons have formed the basis for the Minister's and the Government's decision to see differently at a competition without an audience where it is possible to keep a distance and a grocery store with several hundred customers? The Minister says in his reply that the Government called on municipalities and regions to keep activities to which the public has access and which are not necessarily closed until 21 February. There is quite a difference between a horse race and swimming in a large pool. In the case of horseback riding, there were already pre-corona restrictions for safety reasons. At my daughter's school they had a maximum of seven combinations in the riding house already three years ago. Nobody wants the spread of infection, and everyone is interested in having a disease-proof operation. I wonder why the horse industry is not trusted to do this when shops are.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-414	Madam President, I would like A year has soon passed with the coronapndemine. Many have isolated themselves, and schools and activities for children and young people have been shut down. We know that sedentary and absent social activities have a negative impact on public health and lead to disease. The measures shall be effective, logical and justified. I was pleased when Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said at a press conference barely two weeks ago that children and young people should be able to continue their leisure activities. I note that Minister Lind's response is consistent with what was said at the press conference. There are risks of opening up all sports activities right now, but there are reasons to make specific assessments in relation to certain sports. Single sports performed outdoors, like equestrian sports, can maintain a higher level of infection protection. I would like to give some examples of specific rules for the race that equestrian sports have developed: The stands should be closed and competitions conducted without audience. In addition to the rider, there should only be necessary staff, as helpers and functionaries. Cafetherias should be adapted to the corona mode with restrictions on the number of people and with packed food. Restrictions should be followed when it comes to how people should be distributed on the competition areas. Traditional awards should not be awarded during the pandemic. Some of the special features of sport are that there must not be a close-up fight, but rather a kick-length distance which applies, as my colleague, Mr Anstrell, pointed out. With this distance, disease protection is achieved by far. Riding houses where horseback riding and competitions take place can be equated to an outdoor environment. There is a large volume of air and good ventilation. The unique conditions can also apply for more sports, such as cycling and orientation. There's a lot of difference between sports. Therefore, certain outdoor sports where contact with persons does not occur should be able to be treated differently. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Lind whether she will review the possibility of opening up to competitions that can be held with a high level of infection protection. Question two concerns my interpretation of the Prime Minister at the press conference and Minister Lind's reply that children and young people born in 2005 and later have access to their hobbies. How is it supposed to be implemented, and when will it become a reality?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-423	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank both Alexandra Anstrell and Sofia Westergren for the interpellations, because I think it is important that we regularly highlight the conditions of the sports movement during and through the pandemic and not least how important it is to sport for our children and young people. I would like to start by making it clear, so that it is clear, that when it comes to general gatherings and public events, what is currently limiting the audience is what falls under the previous Order Act and the current Pandemic Act, namely the eight-limit now in place. I was able to tell you yesterday that the government is currently working on making proposals for new regulations in the event of an improved infection. We look, among other things, at being able to make a distinction between outdoor and indoor activities, to be able to take into account the size of both the facility and the area where an activity is carried out. Here we know that in both sports races and large sports, where the participants are not there to watch the event but are also part of it, there has been no possibility under the Act of Order to take into account the fact that you are moving in a many kilometer long exercise race or in a large forest for orientation, for example. That's the kind of stuff we're looking at now. As the Minister of Social Affairs told us yesterday, we are also preparing regulations in the event of a worsening of infection. It has been a very strained situation over Christmas and winter. The competition activity itself is not regulated in the Pandemic Act, but it is the Public Health Authority's regulations and general advice that apply to it. What they have said up until now is that occasional competitions and matches for children born in 2005 and later are okay. We know that competitions have a huge impact on children's motivation to sport. It brings joy and gives the little gold edge. But the Swedish Public Health Agency also says that it is not the time to return to the regular comics yet. There is also a desire to maintain a restrictive approach to the competitions and matches of older teenagers and adults, but not that of pure elite sport. It has been said that it is a professional activity and that it should continue. I understand, of course, that this affects very many people in our country now, not least all young people who find joy in competitions both in equestrian sports and in other sports. The Public Health Agency will update its general guidelines and regulations on 6 February. Then it remains to be seen if they say anything about the older teenagers. But I'm very happy that the government and the Public Health Agency yesterday could tell us that we can now also open up for the older teenagers to practice. Protecting children's and young people's leisure activities is our view that they should be able to participate in organised sport, organised cultural activities and other leisure activities. It can be a matter of activities within a religious community or other. It's not about the competition business itself. There, the Public Health Agency's recommendation is that we continue to be restrictive. I think we are all looking forward to a future in which we can return to normal as soon as possible. Of course it means a lot. I would also like to say that it is clear that it is not because of either interest or knowledge that we have the restrictions we have. We have not had a legal opportunity to develop accurate restrictions. Now we have it. However, as the situation was in December, it was a priority to quickly get other activities into the restriction. Shops also have to relate to one square meter area per person in the store. Now we are working to prepare for a better situation with more accurate restrictions on gatherings but also in case things get worse.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the clarification. I think it is good that the Minister is looking at different solutions. But time passes and soon it will be ours. There is quite a difference between series games and a jumping competition with horses, an orientation contest or, for that matter, downhill skiing. Now comes the new council on 6 February, which will be interesting. But it is still the case that it is not possible to bring everyone over in these decisions. It is good that the Government has commissioned the Centre for Sport Research to investigate the effects of the coronapandemin on sport in Sweden. My experience is that they have hit our entire public health enormously. On the one hand, it is good, because there are many more who are out walking. On the other hand, of course, a betting 16-year-old who wants and needs to compete to move forward cannot do so today. In fact, I believe that mental illness, which is already large among Sweden's young people, will get worse. It is important to have meaningful leisure time. I've been asked by a lot of stable girls why the rules look like they do, that they can't participate in a competition without an audience, while they can go shopping in the store with 449 other people until 10:00 p.m. Therefore, my question to the Minister is: what major differences in the spread of infection or other reasons have formed the basis for the Minister's and the Government's decision to see differently at a competition without an audience, where it is possible to keep a distance, and a grocery store with several hundred customers? Does the Minister not agree that it is incomprehensible? Madam President, I would like In fact, I do not feel that I am getting an answer to my question. I have had corona myself, and it is nothing that I wish anyone. That's why I think it's extremely important to keep your distance, spread your hands and not meet so many people. But it is actually impossible to explain the decision taken by the government based on the guidelines of the Public Health Agency. I wonder once again whether the Minister can answer my question: on what facts and circumstances has the Minister and the Government based the position to limit a sport with such great opportunities to keep its distance, while shops can decide for themselves whether it is possible to keep a distance? Isn't there confidence in the horse business? It's a question that's asked the most every day. Come on, Minister! Agree that it is incomprehensible that it can be so different! What do you say to all the competitive, talented riders who are in the starting pits and just want to get started? They can keep their distance, because they always have. I wonder if the Minister and the Government have any plans to make decisions to allow competitions without audiences even for those born in 2004 or earlier in the sports where it is possible, because it is different depending on how you can keep your distance. It is not only about riding competitions but also about other individual sports such as orienteering, downhill skiing, figure skating and the like. You can do it if you want.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-444	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Lind for his reply. I understand that the limit for births in 2005 can be related to comprehensive school and that the primary schools, unlike upper secondary schools, are open, even if they work more remotely now than last autumn. I would have liked more to be seen to allow competitions that can be conducted with a high level of infection protection than to draw strict age limits. Children and young people are our future, and they need to have meaningful leisure time with sport, movement and culture. The CDS shall be high, logical and duly justified. I want to tell Minister Lind about a good girl. Her name is Wilma, is 17 years old and lives in Uddevalla. She has competed pony at the highest level, but last year she sold her pony and bought two big horses. But then the coronan struck, and she has had no opportunity to qualify. My daughter who has been riding a big horse for several years is one year younger than Wilma and is thus allowed to compete on merit while Wilma gets caught. This crazy beats the rules right now. Both my daughter and Wilma have competed at national level, but now Wilma, unlike my daughter, is not allowed to compete. Both girls are juniors, so the age limit sets the junior group apart. I am taking this debate because I see how this affects so many young people who want to practise their sport and compete. It is the carrot for everyday work with schoolwork and horse husbandry. It's also a sport that engages a lot of girls. Madam President, I would like Is Minister Lind prepared to investigate further how the focus can be changed from age limits that divide youth groups to high infection protection? Can the Minister see the conditions that apply to equestrian sports and also other single sports such as cycling and orientation? The rules speak of comics and cups. In equestrian sports we do not use these concepts, but we have pain. You qualify for different competitions. This also applies to achieving SM status. If the young people born in 2005 or later complete two competitions without error, will they be credited for the status of a Swedish championship?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-452	Madam President, I would like I thank Members for the questions. Let me repeat that it is not the government but the Public Health Authority that sets the guidelines for competition activities. If there are specific questions, concerns or wishes, I must ask to refer to that authority. It is not within the framework of the Pandemic Act. I know that the Public Health Agency is in close dialogue with the overall sports movement, and that is good and encouraged. I also know that there is broad support within the sports movement for the recommendations and guidelines that apply. I also know that the Swedish Public Health Agency is also considering how to develop the guidelines forward in a better infection situation. I have full respect for the conditions of different sports, and I know that not least the Ridsport Association has made great efforts to keep the business going. The horses are there and need riding and taking care of. As I understand it, ordinary sports activities have been able to follow the guidelines, recommendations and advice of the Public Health Agency because it is an activity where you can naturally keep quite good distance. Both the training activities and the care of horses have been kept going. The equestrian sport is unique because you have other living beings to relate to who need care even during a pandemic. The guidelines and rules that exist are broad across society. We've all had to forego something during the pandemic. In addition to those who fall ill, lose their lives, or lose a loved one, companies fail and people see their lives' work destroyed. We all miss hugging a close relative or pursuing a long - awaited leisure activity. In the difficult situation of the winter, the priority was to quickly get other activities under the Pandemic Act. But the government has always said that it should produce more accurate rules. The old law of order did not strike well; it became blunt. Yes g therefore answers yes to Sofia Westergren's question; I am absolutely prepared to work with more accuracy. We do, and we've been doing that for quite some time. Yesterday at the press conference, I presented a number of factors that we are looking at. In the consultation round we will have to come back to what the concrete should look like. Then I will call the audience council again and discuss this to see what the first step we should take when the infection allows it. Then it is important that we have the regulations prepared and ready so that they can be rolled out when necessary. It may also be that we are going into a worse position, and then more stringent requirements may be needed. Leisure, sport and culture have been severely affected by the restrictions and live under strict conditions. Throughout the pandemic, I and the government have said that we want to allow children and young people to pursue their hobbies in sport and culture and go to school. These are two important priorities, and if there is a possibility, that is a good thing. So it was also good that the other day we were able to open up to the leisure activities of older teens. There are still children who get caught. There are problems with borders, and we need to deal with that during the pandemic. But we will strive to make the rules as accurate as possible, and that is what we are working on now.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-461	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The rules should be as accurate as possible. Does the Minister agree that the current rules are accurate? The minister said it's the Public Health Authority that's in charge, but the minister can't blame himself. The authorities work on behalf of the Riksdag and the Government and will carry out what is in the law, and if what is in the law is not good, we need to change it. Now we've done it and we're still not seeing any changes. Why is it so important to compete? Well, because it gives a chance to see their level of education, get a development and be motivated to get up every morning to feed their horse and train regardless of the weather. Having a good balance between training and competition is important for several reasons, both for the horse and the rider to keep clean physically and to motivate. Competition planning is also important to get to a good planning for a whole year so that both horse and rider hold, are motivated and have the chance of recovery and a good leisure time. It is an art to match your horse so that it performs at the top of the race. Then you need foresight and proper training. Now you cannot plan for a regular competition season, which is understandable because we are in the midst of a pandemic. But the fact that today's regulations are accurate is certainly not true. Again: What major differences in the spread of infection or other things have been the basis for the Minister's acceptance that different guidelines apply to a competition without an audience where it is possible to keep a horse's distance and a grocery store with 450 customers inside the store?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-466	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Lind very much for her reply. I am particularly pleased that she pointed out that the horses need their care and care every day. It's usually girls who handle these big animals, and it's a lot of work. I am hopeful that we will find a good way forward. I think we have had a really good dialogue, so I hope that there will be rules in the future where consideration can be given to the high level of infection protection that some sports can be conducted with, that is, competitions in some sports, as we have lifted up. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-468	Madam President, I would like I thank both Sofia Westergren and Alexandra Anstrell for an important debate. I would like to begin by commenting on Alexandra Anstrell. I do not feel that the honourable Member is listening to my answers. It is the Public Health Authority that issues advice and recommendations on disease protection. It is very good that there is a rough run between the government and the Public Health Agency. That's how we've been working all along on the disease control work. Advice and recommendations to the activities go through the Swedish Public Health Agency. The government has had different laws at its disposal to be able to support, and we have ensured that we have a close dialogue with the Public Health Agency about when it should be possible to take different steps, both to introduce more restrictive measures and to be able to open up. This has been the assessment and the work that we have done all winter. Madam President, I would like In December we saw a hard second wave strike over Sweden. In that situation, we needed to quickly get the Pandemic Act in place and quickly get more activities in there. There was no one, nor the collective sports movement, who, in December, in a burning pandemic, thought it was time to open up to competitions. I would really like to emphasise that. I have experienced strong support and understanding among the sports movement for the need to prioritise children and young people and for them to have as normal leisure time as possible. But it also means that elite sports – those who have it as a professional activity – should be able to continue. Of course, it is causing great inconvenience. It is a very tough situation for the entire sports movement and many other activities. I am the first to emphasise that. We have a situation now that the government has said that it is a priority to be able to take steps for more accurate rules, not least when it comes to public gatherings and public events. Now we are working and preparing for this, while supporting the sports movement in order to get a restart as soon as possible.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-473	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me how, pending investigations and analyses, I intend to deal with the situation regarding post-distributed newspapers in Skåne when Postnord on 1 February goes to bi-day distribution. He has also asked me how I view mail distribution of newspapers in the long term. Finally, Hans Wallmark has asked why there is a lack of plan and readiness to give distinct answers to what is happening with post-distributed newspapers now that the bi-day distribution is a fact in Skåne. Let me begin by stating that newspaper companies need to be on different platforms in order to reach their users. The digital transformation is fast, but truncated newspapers are still important sources of news communication, scrutiny and deepening for many readers, not least the elderly. A well-functioning distribution of newspapers throughout the country is therefore important from a democratic perspective. Every other day's distribution limits the ability to reach out with printed newspapers throughout the country, especially in sparsely populated areas. Postnord has, among other things, in the light of falling letter volumes announced plans for the transition to bi-day delivery of mail. During the period 28 September to 27 November 2020 the company has tested such a model in Lund and Kävlinge in Skåne. Postnord reported its final results from the trial activities on 4 December 2020. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, PTS, as the supervisory authority, has concluded that the postal activities during the trial have met the requirements, but also that this is not a guarantee that the model works on a larger scale. If and when Postnord implements the new production model in other geographical areas, PTS will therefore continue to review the effects of the operator's model. After Postnord announced the introduction of the bi-day dividend in Skåne, PTS has initiated new supervision. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Press, Radio and Television, MPRT, to investigate the conditions for continuing daily newspaper distribution through procurement or other means. The assignment was developed as soon as it became clear that Postnord assessed that the pilot operation with a bi-day distribution had been successful and that the intention is to proceed with the introduction of bi-day distribution throughout the country. MPRT shall propose how a solution to ensure the continued distribution of mail magazines can be implemented. The postal financing investigation will make proposals in 2023, which may be important in the long term. In parallel, therefore, we need to consider measures to maintain a continued daily distribution of newspapers throughout the country. I share Hans Wallmark's view that the challenge for the newspapers is real, especially in Skåne, and we are therefore working to find a solution. It is important that the government is given a basis that can form the basis for a position. I follow the development closely, and the Ministry of Culture has an ongoing dialogue with the newspaper industry about the effects on newspaper distribution, in a first step in Skåne.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-479	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Culture and Democracy! First, I want to confess something. I'm one of those old fux, so I don't just read the paper on the toad but love to hear the fuss from the morning paper at the coffee, or the tea if you're made that way. Madam President, I would like I have become interested in this issue for various reasons, partly for the simple reason that I am on leave of absence, although it has been a while since I was at the newspaper last time. Yet, newspaper questions are close to my heart for various reasons. Some time ago, more specifically on 11 September, I asked Amanda Lind a written question on this, but was referred to Anders Ygeman. Then I asked Anders Ygeman a new question, an interpellation, six months later, but Amanda Lind answered. It is a little confusing when it comes to exactly how these issues have been distributed within the government. It is all the more important to have an answer, also for the reason, Madam President, that the government has a rather high tailings on media issues. That's my impression. There is usually a clear similarity between the liberal democracy that we defend and the freedom of the media and media pluralism. Ultimately, these are very important issues, just as the Minister was on, not least because, I believe, it is partly a generational issue. I don't want to say that I'm old enough myself, but I think the older you are, the more subscribed newspapers you have at home in the mailbox. That is why it becomes so serious, not least for the elderly, when the newspaper does not come every day but every other day. Madam President, I would like As a journalist, I can reveal that the point of news is that they should be reasonably fresh. A bi-day newspaper is not as up-to-date as a daily newspaper. And now it's no longer a theoretical problem. In my mailbox at home in Skåne we received a postcard a few weeks ago from Postnord, which announced that the entire Skåne now becomes an area with a bi-day distribution. It also affects those who have a newspaper. There are a lot of investigations going on, to which the Minister referred. It is the Authority for Press, Radio and Television, which has a mission that expires on 31 March, and there is a post-financing investigation that runs until next year. But this does not solve the problem. I've made it very difficult to check with the newspapers. The problem in Skåne is that after a few days they started to get the first cancellations of subscriptions, for the simple reason that those who want the magazine every day now get it every other day and that it is not the same joke. And then the papers get accused, which is a bit ugly, because it's an effect of Postnord. Then Postnord, via a subsidiary, has offered the newspaper companies in Skåne to distribute every day but said it will cost a lot more. This cannot be financed, and then we will come back to what I see as a cornerstone of the government, namely media pluralism and the importance of having printed newspapers but also newspapers online. A little bit is that you say one thing but do something completely different, which has the opposite effect. Madam President, I would like It was a little confusing when I asked questions. First I asked Anders Ygeman, and so replied Amanda Lind. I asked Anders Ygeman the first time because Amanda Lind said earlier that I should ask him. It would be good if you could give some clarity as to what is happening and how the newspapers and newspaper reading are affected, because the problem is not theoretical. Madam President, I would like I would also like to warn those who listen to this debate and live in Västra Götaland or parts of Halland, i.e. postcode areas 40 – 51: Postnord will also carry out bi-day delivery there. Now it's not just the newspaper readers in Skåne it's about. Now it is on its way up the west coast, towards Halland and further into Västra Götaland. What's the government doing?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-489	Madam President, I would like I'll start by commenting on the newspaper reading. I grew up myself with Norrbottens-Kuriren lying on my kitchen table. In fact, from an early age I appreciated a lot to read in the newspaper. Maybe at first it was the cartoons and sports pages. Then I found leaders and news interesting to follow. Although digitalisation has affected the consumption of news and we may now see news many more times a day than the late Newscast and the morning newspaper still has the subscribed magazine of great importance. I was also concerned about the financing of the business models of the newspapers and media companies. There is still a relatively large amount of revenue from the subscribed paper magazine. As I said, it is also a tradition, and many feel that reading the news brings added value. Madam President, I would like We do in this government, as Hans Wallmark also says, a very strong priority for the media situation. Both me and my predecessor at the Ministry of Culture and Democracy have taken great steps to strengthen the newspaper industry in Sweden in this period of rapid transition. I can briefly mention a few things we have done. We greatly reduced digital VAT, which facilitated the transition to digital publications. We have strengthened media support. We have also developed media support with different new parts, which gives us the opportunity to reach the white spots, for example, where we know we have weak media coverage. All of this has been important steps. One thing that has been particularly important is the crisis support we have quickly provided under the Corona. According to the report from the newspaper publishers, they have saved many journalistic jobs. It is important, and it is an important priority. It is also important for our democracy, for scrutiny and for free speech. I'll get back to the basic question. Postnord is a state-owned company. Minister for Digitalisation Anders Ygeman has a responsibility in these matters. But the questions asked in the interpellation are linked to the mission to MPRT. It's something that comes from the Department of Culture, that is to say me. That's why I'm answering the interpellation. Postnord is a state-owned company governed in a certain way. They have assessed their business models and reduced letters in physical form in our society as reasons for wanting to take these steps. Here I want to repeat what I said at the beginning: that of course it is still not finished. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency will continue to review these steps. But especially now in the latter part of the autumn it has become clear that Postnord sees this as a step you want to take. It is estimated that you can move on with it. That is why it was important for me and for the government when this was on the table to quickly give the mission to MPRT, so that we get suggestions on the table on how we can deal with this. As Hans Wallmark says, this is a problem for democracy. It becomes a problem for the media companies' business models, and it becomes a problem for those who depend on the daily newspaper to get their news consumption. That is why we have now said in this mission – I will stress that nothing is, of course, decided yet; one solution one sees is that it may cost money – that one should investigate the possibility of ensuring, through procurement or otherwise, the continued distribution of the mail every day at a bi-day distribution. It's a clear mission. I look forward to getting a good basis on the table that we can continue to discuss in the budget-cooperative parties but also widely in the Riksdag.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-495	Madam President, I would like I have to say that the minister reports an exceptionally good taste that has had Norrbottens-Kuriren as its opening morning newspaper – partly because I myself have had the same as my opening newspaper, partly because I once was a leader writer at Norrbottens-Kuriren. I started my journalistic career in Chief Editor Ulf Lidhammar's room. Madam President, I would like I also need to make another confession. I'm also on a newspaper board, so I'm following some of what's going on in the newspaper area. I can confirm that the Minister for Culture and Democracy has now emphasised; there have been a number of targeted support, for example, for what we call white spots, which I believe are important for media pluralism and media image. Together with some other forms of support now during the coronan it has probably had a positive impact on the newspaper industry. What can also be seen, at least with the knowledge I have, is that you are now moving a little away from the previous ad store, that is, making money from ads. Now Google, Apple, Amazon and all their names take that money. Today it has become more of a reader's store. Then, Madam President, the problem comes: if you do not get the paper, there will be a hack in that reader's shop. You may think the news is excellent, but if they come only Monday, Wednesday and Friday but not Tuesday and Thursday one week and on the contrary, you may not be as amused by that reader's store with the newspaper house, even if you enjoy getting your newspaper in the mailbox. I understand that investigations are being carried out, that it takes time and that one minister is responsible for Postnord and the other for democracy issues. But just as the Minister emphasises, Postnord is government. Then you can think from a reader's perspective, a subscriber perspective and a media house perspective that the state with one hand devotes itself to Postnord and closes the mailbox every other day, with the other via the Minister for Culture and Democracy trying to make sure that the newspapers are alive and healthy. It'll be a little odd. I would really like to emphasise that this is no longer a theoretical problem. In my Skåne it is closed in the mailbox every other day. This is not only my problem, but soon it will also be a problem for residents in postcode areas 40 – 51 in Västra Götaland and Halland. And now, Madam President, there is the fear that this will not stop at these postal code areas! It will head into other areas, even to Stockholm or for that matter Söderhamn or Härnösand. Perhaps the government would consider whether we can speed this up. On 31 March, the Office for Press, Radio and Television, MPRT, shall present its mission. We also have the Post Financing Investigation. But for every day that goes by, in different parts of the country the newspaper will not dump into the mailbox every day, which you have paid for, as you hope and as you want it, but every other day. Today Skåne, tomorrow Halland, the day after tomorrow Söderhamn and Härnösand.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-501	Madam President, I would like These are, of course, very serious issues. But I think Hans Wallmark's research on my background and the newspapers I read is impressive. I would also like to say that Bo Östman actually went from Norrbottens-Kuriren to Tidningen Ångermanland, who was watching municipal politics, where I was also an actor for quite a number of years. The agency for press, radio and television has been given rather short time for its mission, you may say. As soon as we get a signal that there are ready proposals, let's look at them. This is very important, because this is an important issue, and the government has pointed this out. As regards corporate governance issues and Postnord's mandate, both Anders Ygeman and Ibrahim Baylan have responsibility. Hans Wallmark knows that corporate governance is not a simple matter. You can't solve all the things that way. I think it's good that we have this long-term postal investigation. I'm sure it can look at things in the long run. But we also need solutions here and now. We cannot allow it to go many years without somehow having the basis on the table to be able to act to ensure the continued distribution of mail magazines every day. That is why I was anxious that we should give this mission quickly, which will produce results. I would also like to comment on what Hans Wallmark says about the business models and the transition to digital. It is quite clear that for several years there have been several challenges for newspapers. We are trying to deal with this on the part of the government by, for example, clearing barriers, such as digital VAT, and strengthening media support where it is needed. Pre-aid and operating aid have quite a number of years on the back. It is partly designed for a different situation, other business models and other reader patterns. Not least, it is about local newspaper markets with several competing newspapers – where they wanted to support the second newspaper. Hans Wallmark knows this well. That is why we need to keep looking forward. What does the media sector need in the future for us to be able to support the transition? Now, of course, it is the coronapandemine that should be handled. We still don't know what the development will be in 2021. I and the government are prepared to continue discussing efforts in close dialogue with the media sector and also when we look in the long term. We now also have innovation support in media support. It has been able to go to media houses that have wanted to test new models to reach out to their readers, not least digitally. It's been used. I also think that now in the pandemic a very great creativity in the sector to be able to find new types of business models to reach even digitally. It's about not getting the readers used to the digital being free. There are several industries that have gone through that steel bath, gone on beets and then had to find ways. Now there is a willingness to pay even digitally. But let us remember that it does not compensate for the subscribed magazine and the paper magazine, not yet. That is why we need a media support system. We need a policy that supports the digital newspaper, the digital news experience, and not throws out the baby with the bath water, but ensures that the paper magazine has the conditions for survival. That is why I would like to mention that we also gave a mandate to the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency before Christmas to make proposals on how distribution aid can be developed to cover more categories of printed newspapers. We have made some adjustments in the distribution support to support the paper magazine in this period. We also announced before Christmas that we will remove producer responsibility from the newspaper industry. That was an important message. We need to work on both fronts. I would like to emphasise that the bi-day distribution is an important issue which I hope we can find solutions to.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-511	Madam President, I would like I certainly won't argue too much with the Government. I think she says a lot of good things. This is particularly true of producer responsibility for collecting newspapers. It's meant a lot to me. There has been a great deal of uncertainty before the government came to the fore. But that shot hit right in the middle of the painting. The fact that he also mentions Bosse Östman also makes me happy, because it is an old newspaper colleague. That name illustrates the change. In Bosses's day, there were at least three newspapers in larger towns. When I entered the world of newspapers, there were two newspapers, one bourgeois and one Social Democratic. Today, at best, there is a newspaper in the larger towns. That is the development we see of Mediesverige. I'm like an editor on leave of absence in my third newspaper group. It is the same newspaper that I have formally seen in some sense as employed by the third newspaper group. Things happen. In this change, various forms of newspaper support, newspaper help and media house support could be widely discussed. It's worth another discussion. That's exactly what we see, that it goes from the ad store to the reader's store. I also share the assessment of the digital. Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset in my first speech, I am also committed to the paper paper and newspaper reading. It is an important product for a lot of people, especially the elderly. That is why it fills me with such great concern. That is also why, in various forms of written questions for a long time, I have been trying to bring the problem to the attention of the government. This is a problem not least for the individual but long-term also for our newspaper houses. It is about when the daily newspaper is not a daily newspaper anymore but is published Monday to Friday but dims down in the mailbox only Tuesday and Thursday one week and Monday, Wednesday and Friday the other. Then we have a problem, and that is a democracy problem.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-518	Madam President, I would like A diversity of strong and independent media throughout the country is a prerequisite for a strong democracy. It is about all people regardless of where they live in the country having access to a comprehensive, high-quality media offering that can deepen and portray but also review and explain society's events. Everyone's access to journalism is an important democracy issue. To achieve this ambition, newspapers on paper are still an important distribution channel, not least for the older target group. That is why I and the government have carried out a whole string of reforms in the media area. Everything has had the overall aim of strengthening people's access to professional journalism throughout the country. These include enhanced media support and increased distribution support. We have introduced new publishing aid for newspaper distribution during the crisis and simpler rules for both newspapers and television, abolished producer responsibility for paper magazines and done a lot more. I would also like to emphasise that professional journalism is particularly important during this crisis. I am pleased to see that more citizens find out about the newspapers and have confidence in the news media during the crisis. The structural changes in the media area that Hans Wallmark well points to need political action to meet. That is why I have commissioned MPRT to come up with proposals on how distribution can be maintained even in a situation of bi-day distribution. The Authority shall also look at a broader distribution support that may work in the longer term. My benchmark in all that work is to promote the opportunities of the media. I welcome Wallmark and the Moderates to hook arms in that ambition. I would like to talk more about how we can together strengthen the conditions for professional journalism in our country. I know that this is also something that the industry would strongly welcome.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-524	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked me, firstly, how I am working to secure and maintain a respectful political debate climate in Sweden in order to avoid polarisation; secondly, as Minister of Culture and Democracy, I have done some analysis of the ownership of leading politicians to ensure a good and objective tone in the public debate and how it can be improved, and what measures I take in the framework of my ministry. An open and multifaceted democratic dialogue where many perspectives are expressed and broken against each other is an absolutely central part of our democracy. That is why it is particularly worrying about the threats and hatreds that all too often affect people who actively participate in the debate on society. Self-censorship is a serious democracy problem and a future issue that is also about future generations wanting and daring to take on missions and engage. At the same time, it is important to distinguish between threats and hatred of people and sharp criticisms based on ideological differences of opinion. For example, to be criticized for what policy and which party you work with is something quite different from being silenced by attacks on your person. Having said that, threats, hatred and misinformation are serious threats to democratic dialogue. Here we all have a responsibility for the conduct of debates. The government's democracy strategy highlights the threatened democratic dialogue as one of three challenges to democracy that need to be addressed in particular, alongside democratic exclusion and the increasing threat of anti-democratic forces. The government's measures to safeguard the democratic dialogue against threats and hatred are described in the Action Plan for the defence of the free word. It is about increased knowledge, support for those who are exposed and a strengthened judicial system. During 2018–2020, the Committee has also been tasked with working with outreach efforts that increase people's resilience to misinformation, propaganda and online hatred. Madam President, I would like As far as the tone of the conversation is concerned, I share Mr Wallmark's view that we, as prominent politicians, have a significant personal responsibility to keep a good and objective tone in the public debate. I have no responsibility or interest in reviewing the language of individual ministers or opinion-makers. Personally, I see it as self-evident that I call for a good tone in my own commentary fields, that I myself do not distrust the media or researchers and that I treat my opponents with respect. It is a responsibility that all politicians need to take and which I know the whole government takes very seriously. Political parties should also continuously hold an internal discussion on these issues and cultivate a culture based on political dialogue with respect, sensitivity and good and objective tone.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-530	Madam President, I would like I must first say that I am in no way concerned about Amanda Lind and her tone of voice. I have not seen anything tangible that I could highlight in the general debate. Now she can represent the entire government as Minister of Democracy. I will come to the conclusion that there are some others who leave something to be desired, which a Minister for Democracy should reflect on. In addition, Madam President, as the previous exchange of views between the Minister for Culture and Democracy and myself shows, there is a rather broad consensus on these issues. I think that's important. I also think it is essential that, in the spirit expressed by the Minister for Democracy, we consider how we safeguard this. Madam President, I would like About three quarters of a year ago, I was among those who, on Facebook in particular, highlighted a great deal of arguments from the United States, where good thinkers warned against developments in the presidential elections in which the President-in-Office would question the elections and in which measures would be taken in various ways to prevent citizens' elections from being expressed in a shift of power. On my Facebook page I had some comments with: No, that's not going to happen. This isn't gonna happen. You just refer to CNN, the New York Times and Fareed Zakaria. These are left-wing liberal voices, and that is not the case. Madam President, I would like That's exactly what happened. It was just as bad as some warned. That is why – and this is my parallel to the Swedish debate – I would like to say to the Minister on behalf of the Government that it can be just as bad as what is now being seen. I note that some of Amanda Lind's colleagues do not impose the same restriction on themselves as she does on herself. I saw some time ago a Kristersson by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist where he says: 中 Perhaps the most pregnant example is Morgan Johansson, who is talking about taking power. On the day Trump is forced to leave and Joe Biden is sworn in as President of the United States, Ulf Kristersson (M) signals that he wants to seize power in Sweden with the help of SD. ..................................................... It's not just me who's a little sensitive and sore at the edge. Several newspapers have strongly indicated against this type of language and warned that it is a game with fire. I think the Minister for Democracy should take this very seriously. Smålandsposten, Dagens Industri, Göteborgs-Posten and even the Social Democratic leader Widar Andersson in Folkbladet have warned about what happens if we undermine language to the point that we in party politics hurled things out against each other. Madam President, I would like It's not Amanda Lind I'm turning against. I can't find anything fortuitous there. On the other hand, I turn to the Minister for Democracy Amanda Lind and warn him, as I did three quarters of a year ago, of this development. If we don't look up, this fire game can be very dangerous. In a previous interpellation debate with Morgan Johansson, I have called on him and the government to calm down! That is a call I would also like to address to Amanda Lind – not to her personally, but she should present it to the rest of her ministerial circle.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-539	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Wallmark for his commitment to the democratic dialogue. That is something I welcome. It's something I've been working on from day one during my ministry. It's something my predecessor was working on. This is something the government has been working on for many years. I would like to say this because I shall now quote what Mr Wallmark says in his interpellation: There'll be a spiral down. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I would like to reiterate that it is not in my office as Minister for Democracy to take responsibility for or review the language of individual ministers, nor the language of other opinion-makers and politicians. I would like to be too good to highlight various individual examples in this House. However, I note that the problem of threats and hatred and a depraved democratic dialogue have existed for a long time. I have met civil society organisations, journalists, artists and elected representatives from many parties, not least at the local level, who do not want to express themselves in the public debate, who avoid certain subjects and who avoid throwing themselves out on the Internet with opinions out of fear of the storm wave of threats and hatred that can then be received. Madam President, I would like We have been working for years on the action plan for the defence of the free word to counter hatred and threats. We have given assignments to support elected representatives, artists and journalists through the work of various authorities. We have a good cooperation with SKR on these issues. We're strengthening the justice system. We work preventively. It is, of course, about working broadly with media and information literacy and to conduct the discussion broadly in society. However, I am a little concerned that what Mr Wallmark points out in his interpellation is not this. It is not that this has been going on for years and that people have been frightened away from the political debate, threatened and hated. I can understand that somewhere. There has been a very animated discussion after the Moderates' swing to open up for budget cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. I would like to point out, however: let us be fair and separate what we are talking about now from the sharp criticism and the issues that can come after such a choice. It cannot surprise Hans Wallmark that questions are asked and that criticism comes when the party leader of the Moderates only two years ago pointed to the fundamental values of the Swedish Democrats that made such cooperation impossible. I don't legitimize a depraved language. I think we should think about the tone against each other. But when I hear people, not least young people, who do not dare to be an active part of our democracy, I think there are many problems to deal with. I find it rather remarkable that Mr Wallmark does not express the same degree of commitment to these challenges.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-547	Madam President, I would like Yes, that commitment is very much there. I think, however, that you start cleaning the stairs from the top and then go down. The way the government and its representatives legitimise this increases the risk of others feeling encouraged. It's going to be a spiral that keeps going downwards. It is just as Minister Lind says, Madam President: there are hates and threats in many different sectors – not least in local politics, of which I myself have also been a part as Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board. There is every reason for us, both by means of our own measures and by assisting others, to form a democratically worthy conversation. Having said that, I don't mind being worded harshly or sometimes cruelly, sharply and bitterly. We commented earlier on a leader writer who was very good at it. But it is within the framework of the democratic dialogue, and that is why I am now addressing the Minister for Democracy. I believe that there is a particularly heavy responsibility on the part of those who are the main representatives of the exercising power. This includes the Government, and this is where the Government's colleagues in the Government belong. Here we are talking about arresting the power and taking it to describe different options in a democracy. That is absolutely the case: There are two distinct government options in Sweden. One is represented by Stefan Löfven with a rather weak support in the Chamber. The second is Ulf Kristersson. In fact, he received more votes in the vote, but through the majority system we have, Stefan Löfven was still elected. He was allowed to continue as Prime Minister with fewer votes cast in the Chamber than Ulf Kristersson. To claim that the Moderate Leader as the leader of the great opposition would want to reach the government power by taking power Madam President, I would like Let me tired the House – there are not many of us here – by quoting Fredrik Haage in Smålandsposten, which I also did in my interpellation. He wrote on 21 January:"The opposition in Sweden is now said not only to be factually wrong but also to be democratically questionable. It is a very dramatic rhetorical slip that should be politically impossible in a civilized country like Sweden. ..................................................... In a democracy, no one seizes power anywhere. A party seeks a mandate from the electorate and does not receive it or receive it in general elections. Johansson's formulation is deeply indecent in that it nakedly implies that a moderate-Sweden Democratic parliamentary takeover will be democratically illegitimate. ..................................................... Then we come back to what I mentioned in my first speech, Madam President: I was one of those who warned against, in all simplicity by retransmission what more qualified voices said in the United States, that there were clear signs of political forces that began to question the American presidential elections long before it was carried out. And it happened on a horrifying scale, ultimately with the attack on the Congress building as the ultimate example of it. Therefore, I say that we should be careful and think about what the consequences might be if government representatives are not careful with the nuances of words and the denominations of words.
i-92f00522f0a1501f-555	Madam President, I would like In my role, I constantly learn about how people are treated in public and how young people involved suffer personal attacks and threats to the extent that they hesitate to express themselves or even stop being active. These are real threats to democratic dialogue and to our entire democratic system today. Of course, you can reflect on what concepts you use for different things. But that someone from this government would have claimed that Ulf Kristersson would be about to take power in some democratic illegitimate way, I have not seen anywhere. Just as the honourable Member, Hans Wallmark, points out that it is important for the government to use the words correctly, I would like to say that the same applies to the political opposition. Let us be a little sober and nuanced in describing what is said in the debate! I noticed what Hans Wallmark himself commented here just now about Stefan Löfven becoming Prime Minister with fewer votes than Ulf Kristersson. What is the purpose of Hans Wallmark highlighting this in the speaker's chair? It is just as Hans Wallmark says that this is what the process we have here in Sweden to appoint prime ministers looks like. Does Hans Wallmark mean anything in particular about that statement? In fact, I do not think so, Madam President, but I would like to illustrate by this how easy it is to take a word or a sentence and make something far more far-reaching of it than was actually the idea and the meaning. I think it's wise that we try to avoid that. I understand this is a tough situation for the Moderates. I understand that, because it has been pointed out for quite a number of years that the Swedish Democrats are a party with values that do not want to cooperate with them. Ulf Kristersson mentioned as recently as in his speech in Almedalen 2018 that the Swedish Democrats blame all problems on immigration, express themselves racistly and pay tribute to leaders who question the democratic basis for Europe. Madam President, I would like Now this is not a debate where we will talk about what various representatives and party friends say in other contexts, but since Hans Wallmark does so, I would like to point out that when Ulf Kristersson was asked about the Swedish democrats changed their mind on these points, he avoided answering. He talked about European politics. He talked about rhetoric and more constructive cooperation in Parliament. But he never commented on the values that made the Swedish Democrats impossible to cooperate with a few years ago. Madam President, I would like For me, politics is more than a matter of substance. It is also a question of values to a large extent. I do not think that the Moderates should try to get away from that discussion by pointing out other things and creating a debate on allegations that the opposition would be illegitimate or undemocratic. I would never claim that the Moderates are an undemocratic party. However, Hans Wallmark knows that democracy is based on many different things: respect for minorities, free media and free art to take some examples. Madam President, I would like I am genuinely concerned that the Moderates want to open up to this cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. We will discuss that, and we can do that ideologically and with harsh rhetoric. But we should not devalue the concepts of threats and hatred in the public conversation. Let's separate the concepts. Then, as Hans Wallmark says, we will do what we can to accommodate the discussion, lower the thresholds and allow more people to enter the conversation whether they come from the right, from the left or from other directions. I think that's important. I also think it is important that we listen to each other. But separate the concepts!
i-92f00522f0a1501f-563	Madam President, I would like Now my question was worded in the sense that it was about how we avoid unnecessary and directly dangerous polarisation. Then the minister himself has broadened it into threats and hatred. Perhaps she is right to do so, because this is also there, but my question was, however, somewhat more insistent precisely because it was to be about the democratic dialogue. That is also why I put the question to the Minister for Democracy. You can have different levels of sensitivity. That I gave the example of Stefan Löfven actually getting fewer votes in the vote in this House than Ulf Kristersson had no charge but was just a factual reflection. That was a purely factual statement. I think the government should bear in mind that it is a rather weak minority government. You do not have very strong support outside the 73-point programme in this House. Earlier today, in another interpellation debate, I have reminded the Foreign Minister that on certain issues there are five parties against the government, and on other issues there are even six parties against the government. It is in the light of that that one should consider the democratic conversation and the nuances and denominations of words, and one must begin at the top, in the highest circles of exercising power. What language do you have, and what kind of thought figures do you let in? The Minister for Culture and Democracy, together with his government colleagues, can one day discover that the Government Declaration is being presented by Ulf Kristersson. Then the question is: Have the Moderates then seized power or has there been a democratic change of power in Sweden?
i-92f00522f0a1501f-568	Madam President, I would like Of course, we can discuss the semantic difference between the words seize and take. However, I cannot see anyone in this House questioning an election result. I assume Hans Wallmark doesn't believe that either. I will return to Hans Wallmark's interpellation, which is about how I, as a minister, work to secure and maintain a respectful political debate climate in Sweden in order to avoid polarisation. I would like to think that this is a concern that has been going on for many years: the destruction of political dialogue and widespread threats and hatred. These are also aspects of polarisation. Polarisation can never for me be a discussion of ideological differences of opinion or which parties we work with. To try to avoid polarisation, the solution cannot be to think that everyone should cooperate with all parties and that that is the solution. Our democratic system in Sweden is based on a government seeking support in the Riksdag to take office and that the parties discuss and decide who they want to cooperate with or not. I once again wonder why Mr Wallmark raises the issue in this House that we are in a minority government. That is the case, and this has been the case in this House in the past too. I hope that Mr Wallmark does not have any underlying ideas about this either. Madam President, I would like It is important that we work for an open debate climate and that we minimise the occurrence of threats and hatred in the public conversation. It scares people to silence. It undermines our democratic system. This means that fewer people want to participate in our democracy. I think that is extremely important and something we all need to stand up for. We will never devalue concepts such as polarization, threats and hatred. No one benefits from that, neither the Moderates nor the government.
