i-0cbfa15924033340-3	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me what I am doing today to attract companies to establish themselves in Sweden and what I intend to do further to improve Sweden as a country for start-ups. Lotta Olsson has also asked me what measures I intend to take in the short and long term to ensure Swedish competitiveness in a situation where electricity prices are rising sharply. I choose to answer the questions in a context because they both relate to attractiveness and competitiveness. Madam President, I would like N is a policy aimed at strengthening the conditions for more and growing companies throughout the country. A variety of companies and entrepreneurs contribute to the competitiveness, innovation and sustainability of the business sector. Sweden should be attractive for foreign and domestic investments. Access to the single market and investment in research and innovation are examples of factors that can contribute to the competitiveness of both industry and the rest of industry. The Government has decided on an updated export and investment strategy that includes targets on the attractiveness of foreign investment. Through the budget proposal for 2021, Business Sweden has received an additional SEK 25 million to strengthen investment promotion and with these funds has increased the communication efforts and marketing of Sweden as an attractive investment country. Sweden is one of the world's most innovative countries with a tradition of collaboration between industry, academia, civil society and the public. At the same time, Sweden is the leader in the green transformation of the business community. This creates the conditions for increased competitiveness and more jobs. The Government enables the green transition through, among other things, collaborative programmes and initiatives in the Industrial Region, which accelerates the climate transition, develops innovation environments and creates job and export opportunities. In addition, the Government introduced in 2021 an opportunity for companies to apply for credit guarantees for large green investments. Within the framework of so-called important projects of common European interest, I pcei, Swedish participation is funded in two battery projects involving S eel and Northvolt AB, which can contribute to increased investments in Sweden. Within the framework of the Research and Innovation Bill 2020, significant increases in funding for research and innovation were presented for the years 2021-2024 to strengthen Sweden as a leading knowledge nation. Through the Kunskapsläftet, the government has provided funds that 2022 is estimated to represent more than 160 000 places of study in Komvux, University of Applied Sciences, Folkhögskolan and University. This can, among other things, enable lifelong learning and make it easier for workers to be equipped for the new jobs that are emerging. Electricity supply is also an important issue for Sweden's competitiveness. The Government is working to ensure that Sweden has a secure, competitive and sustainable energy supply. Among other things, the Government has decided to change the regulatory framework for the expansion of the electricity grid and faster licensing processes. The Swedish Power Network has also recently been commissioned by the Government to extend the transmission network to areas in Sweden's maritime territory. It is also working on a national electrification strategy that takes a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector. The green and digital transformation of industry creates the conditions for new innovative products and solutions that can affect both nationally and globally. In this way, Madam President, our competitiveness is strengthened and more jobs and greater prosperity are created.
i-0cbfa15924033340-12	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a relatively small and highly competitive country. Half of the revenue comes from exports. It is an export that consists largely of goods produced with high energy consumption, such as steel, iron ore, forest raw materials and other heavy industries. This requires not only a large amount of energy, but also a stable and planable energy, because one cannot, in a heavy industrial process, reduce the impact or have a power cut. Madam President, I would like Thus, not only our industry but our entire prosperity depends entirely on our having access to this energy. In addition, we are at global level exposed to competition, and our customers do not choose our products if they can get the same quality at lower prices from suppliers in other countries. Sweden also does not compete with low wages or by neglecting the working environment for those who work in our industry. We simply need to be effective in terms of both quality and price. One of our historically strong competitive advantages has been the early securing of our energy supply. This was done through great sacrifices in terms of land and nature when hydroelectric power was expanded. But Sweden was also early in developing a stable and planned energy source, namely nuclear power. Madam President, I would like We now see that the politically contradictory governance of electricity generation, where the problem of access to electricity capacity is neglected, means that we are losing one of Sweden's greatest competitive advantages. The need for electrical energy will increase to almost double if we switch our industry and our transport to fossil-free. In addition, increased solar and wind production will require a larger volume of planned electricity, hydro power or nuclear power. The whole of Europe is changing to increased electrification, which is a good thing. However, this means that demand and prices for electricity will increase. Even now we can see that prices in area 4, i.e. in Skåne, can be as high as four to five times as high as in the north. Both the lack of transmission capacity and the lack of stable production are involved here. This is a dilemma we need to resolve if Sweden is to cope with competition. Madam President, I would like That is why the Minister for Economic Affairs' view of this is so crucial. Does the Minister deny that the problem exists, or is there an agenda for tackling the problem? Before the great and increased need for electrical energy became apparent, we have in recent years tried to attract large industrial establishments, such as battery factories and server halls – the new industry. These are establishments that in themselves require a great deal of energy. Some plants will also require access to electrical energy equivalent to that of a medium-sized Swedish city. Madam President, I would like The heads of business in the municipalities work daily to communicate with companies and try to facilitate establishment. According to a survey by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, 40% of companies see electricity supply as a problem for start-ups – at the same time as we need more new companies. As much as 43% have no confidence in the government's energy policy either.
i-0cbfa15924033340-20	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for a very important interpellation debate! It is just as Lotta Olsson says: Sweden's prosperity is based on the Swedish business community. Sweden's prosperity is historically based on our access to hydro and nuclear power, clean energy, and a stable social infrastructure. We were a country that had no crime. The companies could be quite safe in Sweden. Now most people have to ask themselves if it has gotten better or worse since 2014. Is it easier and better for companies since 2014, or has it become more complicated and worse? Madam President, I would like I don't know if the Minister for Enterprise is reading today's industry. If he doesn't, I recommend the paper. It's very good, especially if you're interested in business news. Yesterday came a big article with the title.Sweden misses out on investments. Madam President, I would like Sweden is missing out on investment. The sub-heading is a much more expensive environmental permit for companies to reconsider. Madam President, I would like More expensive environmental permits make companies think again. Furthermore, in the same article, the cost of applying for an environmental permit now amounts to around 10% of the companies' turnover. And now there is a frightening figure: a lot more than a third of companies have put investment plans on the shelf as a result of long and expensive licensing processes. ..................................................... Melt that number! A survey from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise shows that every three companies with licensed activities report problems and problems with the regulations around the environmental code. One third of companies. There are 1,000 companies that have responded to the Swedish Enterprise Survey. More than a third, in fact, states that investments have not been made. An even worse figure, Madam President: 12% of companies have chosen to invest abroad. For example, we know that Boliden is now investing 7 000 million, 7 billion, in the Norwegian melting plant Odda. It's the biggest investment in the company's history. Imagine, Madam President, that investment had gone to Sweden and Västerbotten instead. How many jobs would that have been? How much more could we have expanded our welfare if we had received that investment? Madam President, I would like We can't be like this. A domestic government creates domestic problems for our international business. This report is frightening. It should, of course, be highlighted. It should be an alarm report for a – admittedly outgoing – Minister of Enterprise and Government. We cannot create such large domestic problems that even the state's own company LKAB cannot make an application for a permit because it did not ask those who had district heating in Kiruna. I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs has been out on a regulatory simplification journey together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Entrepreneurs and LRF. I would like to know what conclusions the Minister for Economic Affairs has drawn from the simplification journey he has made around the country in the last year.
i-0cbfa15924033340-32	Madam President, I would like It's still amazing, I have to say, and nothing that can be hidden whether you raise your voice or be a bit historyless. If we look out over our country today, we see something that we have not seen in decades, namely re-industrialisation and re-industrialisation in much of our country. It is a question of billions that are either about to be invested or planned to be invested. It's a fantastic comeback for the industry that was described under the Moderate-led government as a basically gone. At that time, I believe that the then Moderate Prime Minister meant employment in Swedish industry. We are now seeing in Västerbotten, as Mr Beckman mentioned, an investment rate and a demand for skilled labour which we have not seen since, yes, possibly the 1960s. It should also please moderate Members. I know that you are in opposition, but the amazing pace of investment that we are seeing now should actually make you happy too. The fact that industry is not fundamentally gone, that on the contrary it not only makes a comeback but does so with power, should also please the Moderates. I know it is not easy to admit that you are wrong, especially in politics, but you should be pleased that you were wrong. It's good that you were wrong, that the industry isn't gone. Then there are a number of conditions raised by Members. However, it is a bit historyless, Madam President. It sounds like Sweden has always been self-sufficient in electricity. It's not like that. Until 2013, we could each and every two years be dependent on imports of electricity. But since 2014, we have exported electricity almost every year. Every year we have been net exporters of clean and fine electricity from our country, mainly to our eastern neighbour Finland – some years even a quarter of their electricity. It's been good. It is also a bit historyless to say that energy policy is contradictory. Every political decision on energy policy in the last five years has been taken by the Moderates. We have done it together, Madam President, and I think it has been a good thing. It's a shame you dropped out of work. We have sometimes had different opinions, but we have still worked together for what is Sweden's best. We have improved the conditions for nuclear power together, as we did last parliamentary term, and the conditions for hydropower together. We have improved the conditions for renewables together. We set the objectives of energy policy together. I think that's good. It has been good for Sweden, and for that I want to say something that is not often said from the speaker's chair: Thank you! We need more of that kind of cooperation. Nevertheless, Madam President, it is clear that we have challenges. The supply of skills is one, because now that it is being invested in new industries, tens of thousands of new employees will be needed in skills that may not exist in the country today. There we need to continue investing in education and skills to ensure that people have the right education for the jobs that are emerging – and to ensure that they can move there. Electricity supply, there are of course challenges. They have been around for a long time in terms of transmission and power demand. Of course, if anyone thinks it was unfortunate that we introduced price zones in 2012, under the moderate-led government, but I understand why this happened. It was after a notification from Denmark to the European Commission. It is clear that we are seeking to expand the network so that we do not have these zones, so that we have the same electricity price across the country, but we are not quite there yet. I would be more than happy to see continued cooperation, broadly in Parliament, to improve conditions further.
i-0cbfa15924033340-41	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply and the debate here. Electricity supply, according to 60 per cent of business managers, is often discussed in the municipalities. It doesn't matter how good an innovation climate we have or how good we are at changing our entire industry and transport sector if we can't deliver enough electrical energy for this. I am well aware that we are exporting some electrical energy, but it is not those days that we have a shortage in Sweden. It is also the case that even our surrounding world will change its transport and its industry, even if you may not be as early as Sweden. It would be so very sad to miss this opportunity to be absolutely the first to become a really good fossil-free welfare country. That's why we need to be proactive. I am also aware, Madam President, that five years ago the world did not look like it is today. Our industries and our innovation forces in Sweden have been extremely good at changing. I think Minister Baylan also sees that one can be on a study visit one year, and next year amazing things have happened. Politics must not be a brake on this amazing development. It must not be for the climate challenge, for Sweden as a welfare country and our economy or for our opportunity to be one of the countries in the world that affects both the climate and the new industry. No one is happier than us from moderate quarters if the new investments in battery factories, both in the north and in Central Sweden, are a success. If you look in the rear-view mirror, you can see that we've been wrong. I do not think that this applies only to moderate representatives. That it would come to battery factories I think very few could see ten years ago. It's a fantastic development. That is not to say that this problem has been solved. If we are to achieve a 90% increase in electricity within just a few years, we must use all power and capacity. Then the heads of industry must see that our government will work actively for us to manage this electricity production in Sweden. We live in an environment where we import and export a lot – of course. It's important. But there will be a general shortage of electricity throughout Europe, and I would be extremely surprised if large countries like Germany were to come up with other ideas and offer us cheap electric energy if they were to achieve greater production. Here we need to look at our house, because otherwise we lose the head start we have on what we are good at. I also think that we have a great responsibility if we are to meet Greta and her friends in the streets and squares, look them in the eye and say that we are really doing everything we can to achieve fossil-free electricity production. Nevertheless, it is electricity generation that will largely replace today's fossil fuels. Of all the electricity in the world, 80 percent comes from fossil fuels. There, Sweden is already one of the absolute best countries, but we must also take the next step.
i-0cbfa15924033340-51	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry obviously does not read today's industry. But I'm going to offer you another magazine, the Focus magazine, an excellent magazine that now comes on Thursdays. In Thursday's newspaper you will find the title: After all, he should withdraw from politics. I thought we could have an independent journalist review the outcome of the government. The Minister's satisfaction is obvious. "Somewhere in the midst of the shortage of electricity, the sky-high diesel prices, nuclear fuel disposals, Cementa's upcoming production stop and service to LKAB's desire to expand the Kiruna mine, Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan could still count home a real victory. It's about the cat register. Johan Hakelius writes a very funny column about this. But the interesting thing is that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has advised against this cat register, because the administration will be expensive and complicated. But listening to expert authorities is, after all, less a rule and more a way out when you do not want to stand for anything. Even when it comes to Sweden's register of cats, therefore, the authority itself has said that there will be a regulatory problem. This, Madam President, is fully in line with this government's policy and with the big alarm report from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which today's industry wrote about yesterday. DI thus writes:中 The average cost of applying for a permit, which has increased, amounts to about 10 per cent of the companies' turnover. Summerat's costs are estimated to have increased by more than SEK 50 billion – however, over several years, according to the calculations of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. It is therefore 50 billion for applications to be allowed to make investments in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I hope that the outgoing Minister for Economic Affairs is not proud or satisfied with this but will work to ensure that every job will come to Sweden.
i-0cbfa15924033340-55	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Lotta Olsson. It's not easy to admit that you're wrong. It is clear that every person has had it, including in politics, although we sometimes find it difficult to admit it. Nevertheless, it is gratifying to hear that it is acknowledged that the image of the moderate party of industry was wrong. It was, and it is. Industry is not just on its way back, but today has big plans to hire new people. One of the biggest challenges we all have to work with – the supply of skills. Another of the major challenges when you want to make a very fast transition is the state processes. It is against this background that we are looking at both the environmental code and the mineral law – yes, all applicable laws and regulations. But I don't think that's gonna be enough, if I'm to be completely honest. It will be easy as it sounds in this interpellation debate, Madam President, that we focus on laws and regulations in parliament and government. However, I believe that their application is at least as important in the case of public authorities, but also, of course, in the case of municipalities and regions. We have a great need to make this transition, both because we need to get rid of the CO2 emissions that Lotta Olsson talked about and because we are already frontrunners and best at both innovations and climate change – not good enough, but still best – have great opportunities to attract us to invest and show us the way forward. In this way, we can ensure that we get economic growth, more in jobs and thereby also strengthened welfare in the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Madam President, I would like To be perfectly honest, I understand that these debates exist to focus, so to speak, on the differences. It is reasonable, not least at the beginning of an election year in a democracy, that people are aware of the clear alternatives that exist. However, on a few issues, Madam President, I believe that Sweden is actually making a lot more money from the parties working together. What am I most proud of in the years that I have engaged in politics? I believe that the energy agreement we reached together, which involved hundreds of billions of investments in our energy system, benefits our country for a very long time. I also believe, Madam President, that we have everything to gain from the fact that the Moderates continue to do this – working together to achieve a stable energy policy. There is a great danger here, Madam President. No matter who thinks it's right, no one invests tens and tens, perhaps hundreds, billions of dollars in an electricity system where the investment will be counted home over decades just because the current government says so or so. If an investment is to be made over ten or twenty years, it is probably good to know that a broad majority in the Riksdag is behind it. That was the very point of the energy agreement that we concluded together and then turned into practical policies, and which rendered quite a lot of investment in our country. That, in turn, has made us today major exporters of electricity, and I want us to be so in the future as well. But no, I do not think we should take on the responsibility of solving the energy problems of the whole of Europe, because I do not think we will be able to do that. But we will be net exporters and at the same time supply our industries and our businesses with clean electricity. There are a number of challenges here. The permit processes we are working on, and we have put forward a proposal to shorten them. We have the entire investment in the networks – it is increasing significantly in the coming years, by 300%. Will that be enough? I am pretty sure that, with so much investment in our country now, we will have to do even more. The best thing would be to do it together, and I look forward to it.
i-0cbfa15924033340-65	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear the discrepancy between the Minister for Energy and the Minister for Enterprise. Nevertheless, there is an understanding of the challenges involved. We can take a challenge that the Minister can go home to his government with this week: to ensure that the final disposal of nuclear waste is started and that the storage facilities for the final disposal of nuclear waste that are planned and planned, and for 16 years, have been investigated back and forth. It can't be reasonable for us to betray two municipalities that have taken so much responsibility for Swedish energy production and now say that they can keep this in their municipalities – we can't end up with anything. This is a great betrayal, and it also means that nobody wants to invest in nuclear power. If the government cannot put its foot down and decide on final custody, but expects the companies to continue without knowing whether there will be a total stop to their production, there are no companies that want to invest in nuclear power or operate nuclear power plants. There the government has a great responsibility. Nevertheless, I feel that the Minister for Economic Affairs understands the problem differently from Minister Ygeman. When we have discussed this with him, he seems to want to argue that we can replenish the depots with wind power alone. That's not what it looks like when you get to the big, heavy industries. It is good that the Minister for Economic Affairs is aware of this. This is a big thing that will make a big difference, and I hope now that we will have a change.
i-0cbfa15924033340-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for an important discussion! Lotta Olsson says that no one wants to invest in nuclear power for that reason. I believe, however, that the reason is quite different. No government in modern times, following the expansion of nuclear power, has improved the conditions for nuclear power as much as the current one. Together with the Moderates, we have, among other things, removed the impact tax on nuclear power and looked through and redesigned the regulations for the Waste Fund, so that the charge would not increase at such a speed when we had zero interest rates that it could knock out quite a few well-functioning nuclear reactors. We have done this because it is an important part of our electricity system. I also think we should be realistic. The fact that no one invests in new nuclear power in our country or in many other countries in our neighbourhood has to do with several things. One is the cost of nuclear power. Take Olkiluoto 3, the nuclear reactor that has been planned and built since 2004. When I was new as Minister of Energy in 2014, it was said that it would be connected to the network in six months' time. It is still not online, and costs, which would be EUR 3.2 billion, have almost tripled. We are talking about nearly 100 billion. Of course it discourages. It is the same with the other projects. It has been and is still allowed to build nuclear reactors in Sweden, but I think it is the costs and the timing that deter more than anything else. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a very good competitiveness and innovation power. That does not mean that we should sit back and say that it will always be so. Lotta Olsson is quite right, however, that the rate of change is very rapid. We also see worrying trends in protectionism and in the Union also proposals to upset state aid rules and competition rules. It is clear that we need to be very active in order to assert our competitiveness, jobs and economic growth.
i-0cbfa15924033340-75	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the international competitiveness of industry in the short term, what measures I intend to take to compensate industry for the increase in fuel prices and what measures I intend to take to compensate industry for the increase in electricity prices. Explanation of the high fuel prices lies mainly in the rising oil price but is also due to the fact that some refineries closed down their activities during the pandemic and that it takes time to reach normal production capacity. It is worth noting that no part of the price increase in the past year is due to increased fuel taxes. The last time an active decision was made to change fuel taxes was when the so-called bnp indexation was paused for 2021 and 2022, which means a lower energy tax. Long-term measures to promote electricity grid deployment and electricity generation are needed to meet the increasing demand for electricity. In order to address the differences in electricity prices that arise between different bidding zones in Sweden, and thus promote lower electricity prices in the southern parts of the country, the limitations in transmission capacity that exist in the Swedish transmission network need to be removed. The Swedish Energy Agency plans extensive reinforcements of the network and nearly triples its network investments over the next three years compared with the previous three-year period. Several initiatives have been taken to create the best possible conditions to ensure that Sweden has a secure, stable and climate-neutral electricity supply all year round. As an example, I can mention that the government has recently decided to give the Swedish Enterprise's Swedish power grid in the process of expanding the transmission network to areas in Sweden's maritime territory. It will reduce the costs of connecting, for example, offshore wind power. In addition, the Riksdag has supported the Government's proposal in the proposal Modern permit processes for electricity networks, which aim to shorten lead times and make it easier to expand the Swedish electricity network. The Swedish Energy Market Authority has also received increased funding to shorten its processing time for cases related to electricity grid expansion.
i-0cbfa15924033340-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would also like to thank those who are involved and show their great commitment to the Fuel Rebellion Group on Facebook. If you're not there, I think you should go into Facebook and join the group. There are daily examples from all over Sweden of how shock-high fuel prices affect households, household purchasing power and business. We can see how riders after riders get on their knees. I am genuinely worried about the snow that will fall this winter, for very many agreements that are written between clients and suppliers do not include any fuel supplement. Last week I was in Hofors and visited a company that told me that the diesel price has risen by about 40% since signing their contract. When BS Entreprenad counted on this, it turned out that they would basically have to pay to do snow clearance. Although many entrepreneurs are extremely loyal to their local communities, I believe that few would go to their jobs and pay to do so. I spoke to representatives of the industry. Unfortunately, it is very common that you do not have fuel supplements in your contracts. We are therefore in danger of having a winter that becomes very dark, cold and, at worst, unplowed because of the government's inability in this area. Today, LRF alarms: The costs for Sweden's farmers increase by 4 100 million. The costs have increased by 4.1 billion. According to LRF estimates, diesel accounts for 1 billion, nitrogen manure for 1.8 billion, electricity for 750 million and soya for 900 million. The total is 4.1 billion. This is the cost increase for Sweden's hard-tested small businessmen – the farmers who make sure that you and I and everyone else can get food on the table. They are now being broken by the cost shock that is affecting them. And what does it mean in the long term when diesel costs 15 SEK in Finland, 15 SEK in Norway, 15 SEK in Denmark but over 19 SEK in Sweden? The minister is here talking about the world market price. Madam President, I would like It must be the same world market where the Nordic countries buy their oils, or does Sweden have another world market somewhere else, so that it separates 4 SEK per litre? It costs Sweden's farmers SEK 1 billion. That's $1 billion someone's gonna pay. Then you can say: Yes, we pass the whole cost on to consumers. But that's not how the market works. If the Swedish meatball is twice as expensive as the Danish meatball, there are some who will choose the Danish meat. That is why I have asked my question: What are the consequences for Sweden's international competitiveness that costs run out for Swedish agriculture and the Swedish business community? This should make the government sleepless. I believe, however, that part of the government is cheering. I believe that part of the government believes that this is exactly what it wants to achieve. But what do the Social Democrats say? Is this a desired location? What measures does the government intend to take?
i-0cbfa15924033340-91	Madam President, I would like Baylan government! I was going to bring up the issue of nutrition policy. Fuel taxes and costs are one thing, but the whole society is falling apart – the old fine industrial country of Sweden, which has the world's best export companies. The export industry accounts for 52 per cent of GDP and withdraws money that we in Parliament can sit and distribute into various benefit reforms, etc. We have the accident at Cementa. It's terrible to hear about the cement that we've always broken ourselves. Now we're going to start importing cement from China and old East Germany, where they have big cement mines. Is it environmentally friendly to drive cement here from China? We have the failure of electricity supply, which also drives up electricity prices enormously. Building energy supply on dysfunctional wind power that only provides electricity when the weather permits is particularly naive, I would say. We have been the world leader in nuclear power in Sweden with fantastic technicians and skilled builders. Nuclear power is reliable, does not emit a gram of carbon dioxide and works seven days a week, twenty - four hours a day. Always works. But instead they choose to invest in wind power and oil power in Karlshamn. Instead of building nuclear power, Madam President, you choose 140 000 litres of oil per hour. There is room in Forsmark for two more works. The area is planned for five, which would support the entire Mälardalen and the Stockholm region and provide growth for the conversion to electric cars and the like that is now under way. Just as Lars Beckman points out, it is remarkable that Sweden has 4 SEK higher costs for diesel at the pumps than our neighbouring countries. It is, of course, because we have much more tax on everything. We have high taxes, and the state has with surgical precision made sure to collect taxes on everything. As far as electricity is concerned, it is also amazing that VAT can be levied on the tax: first energy tax and then VAT on it. I suppose we are the only country in the world that has double taxation on energy, as I understand. I think this is embarrassing. And for the government, which is a social democrat: the Social Democrats have historically always protected industry, at least the big industry. Small businesses have never been protected, and they are the ones who take the most beatings with high fuel prices. It is not uncommon for a small businessman, such as a plumber or an operating technician to repair and care for rock heat pumps, to have to drive 10 to 200 km a day to his clients. This is remarkable. The whole of nutrition policy is falling apart, as there is a rather small party in the government that gets to control too much while the rest dance after. It is time to take hold of this to get Sweden in order, and we Moderates are prepared to do so.
i-0cbfa15924033340-98	Madam President, I would like I would like to have another little screw on this debate, and it is about all those commuting to work. The vast majority of people in the country do not have the opportunity to travel by public transport. In Stockholm it works well, and I am the first to advocate that if you can travel by train or bus or commute in any other way collectively it is very good. However, this is not the case in the country. People who have never ever contacted me before say that now the measure is heaped. You won't be able to afford it. It hardly pays to go to work if you have a few miles to commute. In a mobile labour market in the country, one member of the family may be able to get jobs nearby and the other one will have to commute, many times long. And even if you want to be as climate smart as possible and would like to have an electric car to commute with, the electric cars today are quite expensive. Maybe it's not a good time if you're young. You are forced to go on petrol or diesel, and then it costs a lot. The Minister should also be glad that not everyone changes to electric cars; there is simply no electricity for that. I don't really know if I should encourage you to actually stay at home and live a little cheaper instead of continuing to commute to work. It is also the case that much of the skills previously highlighted by the Minister, Madam President, do not always exist in the neighbourhood. Quite a few crafts and specialist skills are available in other locations, and they need to commute to work. The Utopia where we, as the Green Party often says, will ride and go collectively to work is a great solution in our big cities, but it does not look like that in the country. As long as we have not solved electricity production so that we can all ride electric cars and have not come down in such prices on electric cars so that people can choose it, we must therefore make it possible for especially young families to commute. I also think the government needs to go home and look at the tax system. This is a tax base that is huge, because other things in the state budget are financed with petrol and diesel taxes. The day we have all become climate-smart and bikes will thus tax revenues look completely different. Then the question is whether it is reasonable for families of young children in the country who commute to work to pay a larger share of that tax to the state than a family in the inner city that is able to travel by metro, bus or other means. This is actually a question of solidarity, something that the Minister's party usually talks about a lot. Is it reasonable that people in the country should account for a greater share of tax revenue?
i-0cbfa15924033340-103	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that there are quite major challenges in global trade right now. We are talking here about the oil price that has gone up sharply. These are, for example, refineries which closed during the pandemic and which have not yet opened. Now we are in a situation where economic development has turned upwards, not least in Sweden – thank God, I will say. Sweden is one of the countries that has experienced the strongest economic development during and after the pandemic. That's good. When supply does not depend on demand, we get this type of sharp price increases, and then Lars Beckman wants to argue that it is the Swedish government's fault. He thus puts a great deal of faith in how much we influence in the world, but this happens every country. Whether we are talking about Germany or, for that matter, the Netherlands, Belgium or France, there is the same discussion for the same reasons. Nevertheless, we should note that this is visible not only on the price of oil and gas, but also, of course, on a lot of other raw materials. Of course, in some parts of the Swedish base industry it can be a good thing, because, of course, we get more revenue when world market prices are high, but when it comes to what we depend on, in this case petrol and diesel, that is of course not a good thing. Madam President, I would like In the long run, and now we are talking in the long term, there is of course only one way forward, and it is as Lotta Olsson says to switch to domestic raw materials, either electricity or biofuels of various kinds. It'll take time. That is the case, but the direction must still be there, both for the sake of the climate and for the sake of our economy. To be dependent on imported oil from Russia or, for the part, the Middle East, I think we can agree if is not good for many different reasons. Madam President, I would like We will follow this closely and try to help each other, but when it comes to international competitiveness, all countries are in the same boat in some way. The oil price, and thus petrol and diesel prices, have been on the roller coaster, and I would just like to emphasise once again that this is not due to any adjustments in taxes in our country in recent years or for that matter this year. Then Kjell Jansson comes up with a description that I really don't recognize – that the whole country is falling apart. I understand that the opposition should be critical, Kjell Jansson, but it must surely be somewhat moderate on the description of the Swedish industry. I understand that the moderate approach ten years ago was that industry was something of history. But doesn't Kjell Jansson see all the major investments taking place in our country? The biggest challenges – bottlenecks – for Swedish industry and industry both now and in the coming years are the demand for skilled labour. It's a shortage of labour. You couldn't believe that ten years ago. But so it is, Kjell Jansson. Then it is clear that there are a number of challenges. The skills supply is one. We will ensure that we can not only secure electricity – we have large electricity surpluses – but also power in the right place when needed. It is about continuing to build up networks. It is an investment rate that is increasing by 300% over the coming years, as I mentioned. It is true that when it comes to licensing processes, we need to change the rules but also the application of them and make it better and smoother without abandoning important values such as a clean environment, clean water or clean air. Madam President, I would like Yes, there are challenges. Some of them have arrived. But we also have great opportunities. If we get to grips with these challenges – preferably together – I think it will be very good.
i-0cbfa15924033340-113	Madam President, I would like An entrepreneur from Sandviken went to Norway on Friday. He posted a picture on his Instagram and Facebook. When he refueled in Sandviken last Friday he paid 19 SEK and 2 øre per litre of diesel. So he went to Norway and refueled. And for that diesel he, Madam President, paid 15 crowns and 19 cents per litre. Here the Minister for Economic Affairs says that it is international factors that affect the price of diesel in Sweden. But, Madam President, as I said in my first speech, diesel in Denmark costs about SEK 15, in Finland about SEK 15, and in Norway last Friday it cost 15 SEK and 19 cents. And in Sweden last Friday the diesel cost 19 kroner and 2 öre. Madam President, I would like This is, of course, devastating for the competitiveness of Swedish industry. It is devastating for the company in Ljusdal – a world-class company, in fact, as a subcontractor to a large international company – which has a production facility from which their products go from Ljusdal to Mjölby every night. It means, of course, that it must be navigable roads now that there is a winter road. However, this also means that products must be shipped at a reasonable cost. Madam President, I would like What does it mean when the diesel price rises by perhaps 40% in a relatively short time and when our neighbours get a competitive advantage that depends on the Swedish government's domestic policy? I do not believe that even at an SSU congress, the Minister for Economic Affairs could make the young Social Democrats believe that diesel in Sweden costs SEK 19 per litre because of the world market price when it costs SEK 15 in Finland, SEK 15 in Denmark and SEK 15 in Norway. Then we have not even talked about how much it costs in southern Europe and how much it costs in Spain. We have not even talked about the SEK 12 per litre that it costs there. What does this mean for Swedish competitiveness? What does it mean when the government risks destroying companies in Sweden? This is exactly what we have been talking about in other debates. It's about cement deficiency, power shortage and condition processes. Norway can rejoice that we are scaring jobs to Norway from Sweden. But what does it mean in the long term in Sweden? Now the LRF is going out with a big alarm on Aftonbladet's debate page today. I don't know if the Minister for Economic Affairs reads Aftonbladet, but you can read it sometimes too. There is talk of cost increases of over 4 000 million. I have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs three simple questions, which are relatively easy to answer. What measures does the Minister intend to take to compensate industry for the increase in fuel prices? That is a concrete question. The second question is: what measures does the Minister intend to take to compensate industry for the increase in electricity prices? Does the Minister see the pressure on small business members of the LRF? Does the Minister think that it affects the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture with the cost shock that the government has imposed on them? I believe that many people expect an answer from the Minister.
i-0cbfa15924033340-119	Madam President, I would like There is an absolute need for new skills, and there is a shortage of labour in terms of large and new industrial establishments, especially in Norrland. But we have 640 000 long-term unemployed. Maybe it's possible to get them into work if they don't get as much in grants when they don't work. Maybe they'll have to get back to work. That's how the world works, and we try to raise our children. It is perhaps a good thing that we have this policy in Sweden too. High fuel prices are breaking both rural and small businesses. It is one thing to live on Södermalm and take the subway a couple of stations into Gamla Stan or Sergels torg. But it is not in that world that the majority of our inhabitants in Sweden live. Even in Stockholm County, which I represent, it is not in this way. We are extremely dependent on cars to get into town and do our jobs. Whether you are a Member of Parliament, a small business, a nurse or a technician in a company, you must have the car. Should I travel by bus to Stockholm it would take me four hours one way from the archipelago. Anyone can figure out that you don't. Then you take the car, and then it takes an hour and a half instead. The question asked by Lars Beckman remains: Why does Sweden have a 4 SEK higher fuel price than the other Nordic countries and the other countries within the EU? We always compare ourselves to the European Union, but obviously not in this case. I can mention the United States, if I dare to do this, which has extremely much lower prices of fuel than we have. There is dynamism in the economy – lower taxes and more free capital for companies and people. High taxes stifle growth and investment. The question remains: what does the Government intend to do about fuel prices? Will the Government review the level of taxation? We Moderates have proposed a tax cut of SEK 1 on fuel. It is a cautious measure that we think should gain a hearing as the situation is right now in Sweden with the high prices. Then there's a guy who's sitting in Russia and running this now. He just got what he wants. He built a gas line. Merkel, who has done so much well, made a big mistake when she decommissioned nuclear power in Germany because the environmentalists pushed it. Now the Germans depend on gas. This guy is screwing on the crane and now controls the prices of energy for the whole of Europe. That is very unfortunate.
i-0cbfa15924033340-124	Madam President, I would like Of course, the world market price has an impact. We were on a study trip looking at various new energy systems in the United Arab Emirates. There they had a petrol price of the equivalent of SEK 1. They had no taxes at all. Of course, it is very special that you have your own production. Therefore, it is not possible to refer to world market prices; it is, of course, about how much tax you want to spend on various things. Taxes can be very good to reduce the consumption of certain things. There is surely a connection between drinking less alcohol when it costs more or smoking less if it costs a lot of money. But the dilemma is when we have to use the car, such as a company car that we use in the ministry or in agriculture, and we have no alternative. There must be a difference. I sometimes have the feeling that the debate is very much about men in the big cities riding in expensive SUVs and putting an end to a lot of petrol and diesel. It could be one thing. But there must be a system in which we do not take away people's ability to get to work or development in the place where they live because prices are actually too high. This becomes counterproductive if we now want people to get into work, and it is still a very important instrument that as many of us as possible go to work and contribute to Swedish society.
i-0cbfa15924033340-126	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, let us keep to the facts: it is clear that energy prices play a role in competitiveness. Against this background, it is very good for our companies that we have among the lowest electricity prices in the European Union, even after the rise. The upswing has taken place all over Europe, and Kjell Jansson is quite right, of course, that this is to some extent due to the energy dependence that Europe has on Russia, among other things, but also, I would say, the Middle East. The way forward must be to gradually get rid of energy dependence. This is not just about supply and demand, it is also about geopolitics in a way that naturally affects us all. Take, for example, what Kjell Jansson mentioned, Madam President, namely that Sweden uses very little natural gas. We use some in West Sweden, for industrial purposes, but in large parts we use electricity from domestic production – hydropower, nuclear power, wind power and, more and more, solar cells. Then we are still mainly dependent on oil-based fuels; this applies to about 80% of fuels in the automotive sector. It will be evident when the price of oil rises, not only in our country but everywhere – in Europe and around the world. It is clear that you can keep up your voice and try to sound like you know what you are talking about, Madam President, but the fact is that last year or this year the government has neither touched on any energy taxes in this way. If prices go up, then there is another reason, and it is of course that we have an international rise in the price of diesel and petrol. This will vary between countries; we can take the example mentioned by Mr Beckman. It happens that I also read newspaper articles, Lars Beckman, and in the same newspaper article it was said that the diesel price was higher in Sweden than in Norway but that the petrol price was, on the contrary, lower in Sweden than in the oil country of Norway. When there is that kind of discrepancy, people sometimes cross the border. Nevertheless, it is clear that we are following developments and, of course, we are also discussing them. Take the LRF as an example; it is clear that we are following developments and conducting a dialogue on this. This is especially the case if this goes on over time, Madam President – then one must of course help each other. When we talk about the very competitiveness and development of our country, Madam President, I would say to Kjell Jansson that the biggest challenge – in addition to energy prices and what we are discussing – is to educate people. There is an idea that those who are out of work today will take a job if you only torment them with lower pay, but the problem with that idea is that it will not help if people do not have the right education and skills for the jobs that are emerging. Instead, we risk making people poorer and yet not solving the business world's need for skilled labour. We do the opposite: We both invest in business development and ensure that people in our country get the right education to take the jobs that are emerging. I think this is the only way forward. The moderate idea that people will take the jobs if you only torment them enough will never work. I mean, Northvolt won't hire someone just because you're cutting the unemployment fund or the health insurance for that person! The person must be able to do the job. We must therefore ensure that people have the right skills to participate in, for example, the battery production that is emerging in the northern part of the country. Madam President, I would like There is much to be said about this, and I think that basically we have a common position that we should do our best to help the competitiveness of our country. In many respects it is already strong, but we are following the issue and perhaps we also need to take action.
i-0cbfa15924033340-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting debate, Minister. The headline in Aftonbladet is the alarm of the peasants: We are entering a food crisis. The costs for Sweden's farmers increase with unimaginable 4.1 billion. And this is true of a sector, Madam President, which is certainly made up of hard-working small businessmen. But then it's just like Kjell Jansson said: We have the whole business as well. Madam President, I would like The reason why the price of diesel is so important is, of course, that most of the transports carried out in Sweden are carried with diesel. I don't know if the Minister for Economic Affairs has seen it, but I've rarely seen heavy trucks running on petrol. It is possible that there is and that I am ignorant, but the vast majority of heavy vehicles in Sweden are on diesel. This applies to snow clearance, snow ploughing and trucks carrying inputs and products. Every time you see a truck you should be happy, because then you know that a producer and a buyer have found each other somewhere! That is how jobs are created, Madam President. However, there will be very little Swedish food on the table if the government does not act when the costs for Sweden's farmers rise by 4 000 million in a very short time, Madam President. I suspect there are more than me who did not hear an answer from the Minister. There were two simple, straightforward and concrete questions: what does the government do to compensate for the increased cost of fuel? What does the government do to compensate for increased costs of electricity prices? I'm 100% sure a cat register won't solve the two issues. I am 100% sure of this. Therefore, I would like to know what two measures the government intends to take to get Swedish food on the table, Swedish competitiveness and Swedish jobs in Sweden.
i-0cbfa15924033340-140	Madam President, I would like Perhaps Mr Beckman already knows about it, but there are vehicles that run on electricity. There are not enough, but there are also heavy vehicles that run on electricity. Our major vehicle manufacturers Scania and Volvo have launched this in virtually every area. It is still far too small a share, but it is clear that in the long term this is the way forward – that we have vehicles that go on Swedish, clean electricity. We also have heavy-duty vehicles that go on biofuels of various kinds. They are still not enough, but I believe that the proportion of Swedish road traffic is about 20%. 80% are still dependent on fossil fuels. When you have this type of very powerful type in fuel prices, it is clear that you have to follow it closely and, in dialogue with industry organisations, see what you should do to help if they last over time. Of course we will do so in this government. Then, of course, it is possible to be populist and say that we should reduce taxes when fuel prices are high, Madam President. Last year they were low, and this year they are high. But let us not forget the small detail that in the long run we cannot depend on Russian oil or oil from the Middle East. It is the same oil that, just as Lotta Olsson said earlier, is the very root cause of the huge climate problem we have created. Then one cannot believe that we can do so right now, but we must help to gradually get rid of this dependence – for our own sake, for the sake of our economy, for the sake of our competitiveness, but also for the sake of the climate. Then, as the Moderates do, you can't populistically raise your finger and say, "Now we're lowering the treasure" just because it's something people want to hear right here and now. It won't last long.
i-0cbfa15924033340-145	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce predatory pressure in Gävleborg, what measures I intend to take to compensate small businessmen who have increased costs in their activities due to predatory pressure, what measures I intend to take to compensate hunters for the killing of their hunting dogs by wolves and what measures I intend to take to ensure that Parliament's decision on a level of wolves in Sweden in the span 170 – 270 wolves with good spread throughout Sweden is followed. Madam President, I would like The overall and long-term goal of Sweden's predatory policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and kungsörn should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status under the EU Species and Habitats Directive, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Animal management should be consistent with our EU legal obligations and other national targets. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported in 2013 that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden was 270. The reference value for favourable conservation status is a value that must not be underestimated – a floor for the trunk, quite simply. According to the European Commission's guidelines, a favourable conservation status benchmark should be developed by means of a vulnerability analysis. It is about finding a level of the tribe where it is not at risk of extinction. The vulnerability analysis underlying the benchmark was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects, which is a requirement of the European Commission's guidelines. The Government then commissioned, in 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that in view of the population's inbreeding rate, at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. Member States report the conservation status situation to the European Commission every six years. Between the reports, countries need to update developments. Last reported by Sweden, in 2019, it was stated that the reference value for favourable conservation status for wolf was deemed to be 300 individuals. I understand that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the wolf is now based on the scientific basis that the European Commission's guidelines require of the Member States. Viltskadecenter compiles and evaluates the development of wildlife damage to domestic animals including dogs. The State provides subsidies for preventive measures, such as predator-repellent fences, or compensation for injuries and lost domestic animals when caused by predators. It is also possible to grant protection hunting after assessment of the county administrative board to which an application for protection hunting has been submitted. The Swedish Wildlife Administration is regionalised. It is the county administrative boards that are responsible for interacting within and between counties so that predatory pressure is acceptable. County administrative boards have the possibility to decide on the hunting of wolves when the maintenance of the wolf's favourable conservation status is not made more difficult and there is no other suitable solution to, for example, reduce the concentration of predators in predatory areas. Madam President, I would like It should be possible for people to live, live and work in their green industries in the countryside. The Government is continuously working on measures to meet Parliament's objectives in relation to predatory policy, food strategy and the protection of biodiversity, as well as our EU legal commitments in this area. For me, it is not about evaluating these goals against each other, but about working to achieve all the goals set by Parliament and the requirements of EU law on Sweden.
i-0cbfa15924033340-154	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If you are to live, live and run companies throughout Sweden, it is necessary for the government to take strong measures in an emergency regarding the number of wolves, both in Gävleborg and in large parts of the rest of Sweden. We have ended up in a situation where farmers first got on their knees because of predators; this situation has existed for a number of years. This year we have been able to add flashy electricity prices and runaway diesel prices. We have heard in another debate that the LRF is warning of increased costs of 4.1 billion due to government policy. Madam President, I would like It is not reasonable for small businessmen to pay the price for one government party subcontracting predatory policy to the other party – the Green Party. We have got a situation where sheep farmers all over Sweden warn that it is difficult to be a sheep farmer because of predator pressure. Then there's the Hunting Corps. In Hofors, a hunting dog was recently killed in a wolf attack; it was Saturday, October 9. The hunter said it was heavy not only for him but also for children and grandchildren. This was a family member, said the dog owner to the magazine Hunting & Hunters. Madam President, I would like Since no one else does, I would like to look into the camera and say this to Irene Frank in Kilafors: I regret, on behalf of Parliament, that you and your husband cannot run your agriculture well enough because of predatory pressure. Madam President, I would like This entrepreneur in Kilafors has filmed over 20 wolf observations on his farm, near his herd. So this is on film. Even that, says the County Administrative Board Gävleborg or the Administrative Court, is not enough to grant protection hunting. Now imagine that you are a small business. You have income from your farm, but you cannot manage it well enough because of recurring wolf observations near your herd. One must almost have a lack of empathy if one thinks that Swedish predatory policy works. It doesn't. Today it is very difficult to be a small business in the agricultural sector. In Gävleborg we have a predatory pressure of 90 wolves, according to the County Administrative Board. Just near Bollnäs, there is a wolf pack of 14 wolves moving in a very small geographical area. Madam President, I would like If we had a reasonable predatory pressure – perhaps 15 to 20 wolves in Gävleborg – this would not be a question. It would not be a matter for either the Lingbo family, who is afraid to let the children out on the farm, or Sweden's conservationists – hunters – who are afraid of their hunting dogs. Nor would it be a matter for all small farmers who are sheep farmers or other farmers. When a decision was made on the number of wolves to be shot this year, both the Hunters' Association and the LRF were almost furious that the withdrawal was so low. It's the reality out there. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: what is the message to Irene Frank in Kilafors? How is she supposed to run her farm?
i-0cbfa15924033340-164	Madam President, I would like Now I and the minister are here again discussing wolf pressure in Sweden. I believe that Ibrahim Baylan, as rural minister, has encountered the unrest and frustration that exists around the country in terms of the number of wolves and the wolf pressure that exists on the hunt, on the tambo scene and on dogs. Above all, we are concerned that we are no longer able to protect our domestic animals and dogs. There is a broad majority here in the Swedish parliament to reduce the wolf population strongly. There is a decision here in the Swedish Parliament that we should have a wolf tribe of between 170 and 270 wolves. Since then, the Government has allowed the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to move forward and have an acceptance level of 300 wolves. But, Madam President, it is not 300 wolves we have in Sweden, it is 450 wolves we have in Sweden. Since then, the government has completely surrendered and ignored the fact that the wolf tribe has increased from the number that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considered reasonable to 450 wolves. The Minister said in his reply that the game administrations can take care of this. I would recommend that the Minister go out and discuss with those in the game administration how much influence they have over the number of wolves to be shot in the area. There are ready-made directives from the top on the level to which this can be put, and nothing else is acceptable. This is governed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is governed by the Swedish Government and Sweden's ministers. The responsibility of course lies with the government. It is the government that can change this. It is the government that can be clear against the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and it is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that should obey this and push it down towards the county administrative boards. Madam President, I would like I have daily contact with worried animal owners. They are struggling to build fences, as the County Administrative Board is out to inspect. They have not filled enough soil under the fences, so that there may still be a glip somewhere. They get to drive around with their loaders and other things to fill up with soil along the fences to keep the state animals away from their domestication. Animal owners set up fences to prevent their animals from disappearing out of the pasture. But they have thus been given a mandate to also protect the animals of the state, which are increasing in number. One should lie down at a level that can be accepted in rural areas. But when you let the wolf tribe continue to grow in free fall, despite all the alarms that come from the countryside, then it is serious. Madam President, I would like We've mentioned the LRF here before. They have also clearly pointed out the limit of 300 wolves. Why should the government go further? I think it would be good, Madam President, if the Minister were in contact with both the hunters and the LRF on this issue and that he actually took hold of this as well. Then we would not have to stand in this Chamber in an interpellation debate after an interpellation debate and try to push for the wolf tribe that the Swedish Parliament has actually decided on. It's almost a mockery of the countryside when you decide on license hunting on 33 wolves. Why has the government released the wolf number up to 450 wolves, when there is a clear decision on 170 – 270 wolves? The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has regulated it to 300 wolves, but the government has accepted 450 wolves.
i-0cbfa15924033340-173	Madam President, I would like I would like to add another aspect of the wolf issue, which I have been in debate with Minister Baylan on before, and that is lamb production in Sweden. We eat more and more lamb meat. Lamb meat is healthy meat, and we import in the order of 70% lamb meat. It's not from Norway, it's from New Zealand. It is a climate issue that we produce our own meat. And just as it is important that the electricity and fuel are produced in Sweden, it is very good for both our safety and our jobs that the food we eat is produced in Sweden. Moreover, there is nothing as useful as Swedish meat, as we do not use antibiotics unless it is absolutely necessary. There are very strong guidelines on how to use antibiotics in animals, Madam President. With that, it is both very climate-smart and healthy and good in many other ways. In my home county, Örebro County, we may not have the fattest soils everywhere, as you have in Skåne. We have a lot of intermediate landscapes, between forest and agricultural landscapes, and where lamb production is so great. This is also what enables you to keep open landscapes but also biodiversity. In the sheep pastures there are many other things growing. Both plants and animals thrive there, and we spend enormous money to preserve such areas. That we do not then have too hard wolf pressure that removes this nutrition is actually both climate-smart and nature-smart. In addition, the industry provides jobs. Madam President, I would like The Minister is not unaware that predators are a danger to domestication. In a previous debate, we have been aware that the Minister actually has experience in guarding animals from predators, and that experience is not so many. In my home country, we as Members of Parliament are invited to sheep's wakes. We will then have to go at night and make sure that the sheep and lambs are not attacked by predators. We have never advocated, as a party in any case – even if there are individuals who do – that the wolf should be completely removed. But it is extremely important to keep the tribes down so that there is acceptance, because people get pretty desperate, especially when, as the honourable Member Beckman describes, flocks of ten or twelve animals arrive. Then they're not cute dogs. People feel a danger in this both for their domesticity and for their families. I do not understand why we cannot stick to what Parliament has actually decided. Then it would have a popular acceptance. There is also another danger of going too far with various reforms, and that is that people do not really trust politics and democracy, that what we decide here does not matter. It's a huge danger. We can see in the world around us that when it has gone that far, it does not matter what we say in our seats.
i-0cbfa15924033340-182	Madam President, I would like Yes, as Lotta Olsson says, I was born on a farm, and yes, it was expected of me, just like all the other children there, that I would start helping out in agriculture. One of the simplest tasks was precisely to help to wax cattle of various kinds. Of course there is a fear and fear of predators, especially in that part of the world where I was born. There are not only predators but also poisonous snakes and other things. It's a fear that I have ingrained. I really understand what Sten Bergheden says about the concerns of people who are near these predators. For me, it is a matter of finding a good balance here together, because I entirely agree with Lotta Olsson that there are those who believe that we should once again go after some predators and that that would be the way forward. I do not think so, but it is important to find that balance so that we can live, live and work in green industries in rural areas, not least with regard to livestock production. I fully share the view that this is something that we are doing well here in Sweden. It is also part of the food strategy that we should increase livestock production in our country. We can contribute and show how, and the use of antibiotics is an example of this. I fully share that view. It is against this background that we have the opportunity for our wildlife damage centres and our county boards to work in such a way that we get this balance. Is it always maintained? No, because this is also a moving matter. Members know very well that the wolf from being extinct has grown in our country. Sten Bergheden asks me: Why just 300? As I read out in my interpellation response, our commitments, not least towards the European Union, must be scientifically based. That's why the number ended up there. I think that where there are problems, and there are problems, one has the opportunity to apply for protection hunting. The county administrative boards are then able to decide on and have also taken decisions in the past on this type of protection hunt, especially in the case of wolves. Madam President, I would like Although I appreciate the confidence and confidence of Mr Beckman in what I am going to do as a minister in relation to the authorities, Mr Beckman knows very well that it is usually called a government of ministers if a minister tells an authority what decisions it is going to take. This is particularly true in the case of government decisions against the individual, who is forbidden by our constitution. Madam President, I would like These aren't easy questions. I believe that we are doing our best to find a balance between the different objectives so that they can be valued in a way that enables us to achieve them on the basis of the decisions taken in Parliament and our European legal obligations. The EU legal obligations apply to Sweden as a nation, so even if we had had a moderate government, which we had not so long ago, the same commitments would have applied to that government as well.
i-0cbfa15924033340-190	Madam President, I would like Thankfully, a government can govern its authorities – it would be terrible otherwise – through what is called a letter of regulation. I suspect the Minister of Economic Affairs has issued something like that. What, then, is the reality in Gävleborg? What is the reality of a small business in Kilafors? How is the reality for a small businessman who gets wolf who walks on the farm night after night in the Sweden that, among other things, this minister is in charge? Then, of course, you apply for protective hunting, for you naturally panic and despair when you have this wolf who walks on the farm over and over again. What does the County Administrative Board write, Gävleborg? The County Administrative Board notes that the conditions for protection hunting have not changed. The fact that there has been another film on a wolf passing through the yard during the night cannot currently be regarded as a problem wolf according to the opinion of the wildlife accident centre. The County Administrative Board is aware that domestic animal husbandry should not be significantly hampered by the presence of predators and that socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. It is just as we have decided here in the Swedish Parliament. The proposal is not the only one to be dealt with by the County Administrative Board, but there are criteria that must be met in order for a protection hunt to be granted. ..................................................... And now we are approaching the core of the matter: a) The County Administrative Board notes that the reports received do not meet the criteria proposed by Viltskadecenter. Based on the guidance from the County Administrative Board, it is therefore not possible to ensure that the wolves moving at the applicant's farm have unwanted behaviour. .....................................................
i-0cbfa15924033340-195	Madam President, I would like I am democratically elected by the Swedish people. I am a Member of Parliament and have 348 colleagues. We have adopted a proposal that clearly states that socio-economic considerations should be taken into account and that domestic animal husbandry in Sweden should not be significantly impeded. We in Parliament have decided on this. We elected representatives have said what predatory policy we want. In the same decision, we also said there would be 170 to 270 wolves. However, as I read, something has happened along the way. The County Administrative Board says that it interprets a regulation in this way, with the consequence that it can live a small business owner in Kilafors who has a wolf on his farm over and over again without the authorities considering it a problem. Madam President, I would like Let's do a thought experiment. What if the same wolf was in Stockholm on a journalist-tight Södermalm? Does anyone think this wolf would not be shot? If so, it would have been right, and the wolf in Nacka was shot very quickly. Why should a small business owner in Kilafors not experience the same security? Or why should the sheep farmer in Vallsta work for free for the state to clean and keep a clean fence? This is what we are asking of small businesses. The state says there should be wolf, but then the state must also take full consistency responsibility for it, just as Sten Bergheden said. It is not reasonable for Sweden's small businesses to work for free for the state. It is not reasonable that a small business owner in Kilafors should be sleepless or awakened by the alarm from the camera and rush out to try to save his animals. But that is what happens when our authorities do not comply with the parliamentary decision we have taken.
i-0cbfa15924033340-199	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me refer to what the Minister said about his broad agreement and the concerns that are out there. That's good. However, there is a certain difference between us and the Minister, because it is the Minister and the Government who are responsible for this and can remedy the situation. It is not enough just to share the opinion and the concerns, but to act and do something about the situation. The wolf is not endangered. We have about 200 000 wolves in the world, and Sweden has about 450 wolves. We are talking about reducing the wolf population to the level that Parliament has said. The Moderates want to go even further and have a maximum of 170 wolves, but the government can start by reducing to 170 – 270 wolves, or at worst 300 wolves. Then 150 wolves will be removed, but the county boards have made decisions on 33 wolves, which is considerably fewer. The wolf tribe is still growing in Sweden. The authorities and the government must comply with Parliament's decisions, and it is not ministerial government to do so. In fact, it is more serious not to comply with Parliament's decisions. I also asked the question why the government has released the wolf tribe up to 450 wolves, and I did not get an answer to that. I know the Environmental Protection Agency thought there would be 300 wolves. While the government cannot keep track of the number of wolves in our country, the government is about to count cats. Instead, count the number of wolves and reduce the number to what Parliament has decided!
i-0cbfa15924033340-204	Madam President, I would like I am on the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the Minister for Economic Affairs also represents these issues. I would like Sweden to be able to produce its own lamb meat. The consumption of lamb is increasing all the time, and a good vision would be that Sweden should be able to produce more than 30 percent today. Sweden has 9 000 companies producing lamb and sheep meat in Sweden and 600 000 sheep. What if we could get up to 1.5 million sheep? I hereby propose to the Minister a policy measure. If we can triple this industry, it will provide better health, more jobs, a landscape with greater biodiversity and happier rural populations. The Minister of Industry will have a good political idea here, if he remains in office. This is a vision and a reform that would provide good and natural jobs and good public health and benefit us in every way. Of course, the size of the wolf population is an obstacle to this. Here you go. Here's a very good reform for the minister.
i-0cbfa15924033340-208	Madam President, I would like Members are well aware of the laws and regulations in force. However, youths, among other things, are in the gallery, so it may be appropriate to go through the matter. The order we have is for the Riksdag to lay down laws and the Government regulations. The Government then ensures that these can be implemented by the authorities. The person subject to the exercise of official authority has every opportunity to bring a case before a court if it considers that the authority has interpreted the law incorrectly. It has happened before and will happen again. For a minister, according to the Swedish constitution, it is strictly forbidden to interfere in the implementation of these laws against individuals – even more so when something is subject to judicial review, as in the individual case we heard about. That's the way it should be. There are countries where governments try to interfere in how courts should judge, and that is not how we want it in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Against this background, I have explained the basis of these laws and regulations. But of course I have a great deal of sympathy for the concern, and that is also why we are helping with preventive measures, such as wildlife fences, and with compensation when something has already happened so that the individual does not stand alone. Furthermore, when what is too much of a predator in this case, the county administrative boards have the opportunity to issue a licence hunt. Protection hunting may also be required if the predator acts threateningly against humans. Madam President, I would like I also share Lotta Olsson's desire to increase domestic meat production, not least as regards lamb meat. Just a decade ago, this meat was not entirely common, but now it is increasingly common in our restaurants. As Minister for Enterprise, I am of course happy to see that it is also produced in our sustainable way, not least in terms of environmental aspects, antibiotics and other things. I thank Lotta Olsson for the tip, and although I appreciate the hope that I will remain as Minister for Economic Affairs, this is probably on the table.
i-0cbfa15924033340-216	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely sure that Lotta Olsson wants both a new Minister of Economic Affairs, a new government and a new policy for Sweden. Madam President, I would like The breakdowns that the government has had in many different areas of society affect many people in Sweden, but the breakdown of predatory policy affects most rural areas. It is an important rural issue, and it is an important issue for reindeer husbandry. I know that Saila Quicklund, my colleague from Jämtland, is very committed to the conditions of the reindeer industry. I think it is a government's responsibility to act and take action when a social problem escalates, because it is a social problem. It is a social problem that a small business owner in Kilafors gets a wolf who walks on the farm night after night, which is filmed with a camera, and that the authorities interpret the regulations as shown by the County Administrative Board's reply, that it is an application and a guide. I believe, Madam President, that this is the way in which the Social Democrats have turned away rural policy and predatory policy to the Green Party. It is a cheap price to pay, but the consequences for Sweden's hunters, for Sweden's farmers and for the families living in predatory areas are terrible. That is why, of course, both the Hunters' Association and the LRF take each other in hand and rage over the fact that the withdrawal of wolf in Gävleborg is far too low in relation to the high predatory pressure that exists. I would have liked us to have an active government that saw the whole of Sweden, that acted on this issue and that made us never have to debate the wolf. If predator pressure were reasonable, it would not be a social problem. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: The word for the closing speech, which is possibly his last post as Minister of Economic Affairs, goes to Ibrahim Baylan. )
i-0cbfa15924033340-221	Madam President, I would like It is likely, but if you have been in politics for as long as I am, you should not exclude anything. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Members for the discussion. Of course these are important issues. Even if you do as Lars Beckman has done in a number of interpellation debates and in every corner you see conspiracy from the Green Party, which he obviously attaches to very great importance in this country – it certainly delights them – and he obviously wants to combat this, I still appreciate the debates. I believe, and have always wanted to believe, that in essence, although we have different opinions that are sometimes not as different as it sounds from the speaker's seat, there is a positive commitment to this country's welfare and woe, so also on these issues. Then Members are well aware of what I can and cannot do as individual ministers, not least in relation to the laws and regulations adopted here. I understand the concerns that exist in our country both in terms of the development we have, which not only concerns wolf but also other predators, and in terms of finding a balance in which we can both live and operate throughout our country and at the same time have a biodiversity that we can be proud of in Sweden. Let's keep working. We will continue to be active and do our very best. I am pretty sure, Madam President, that no matter who is the Minister for Enterprise in the next government, this will continue to be debated in this House. Thank you for this time!
i-0cbfa15924033340-227	Madam President, I would like Camilla Brodin has asked me, on the one hand, whether the introduction of the electricity market hub is still up to date, even if the ideas about the electricity trading centre model have been scrapped, and, on the other hand, how I assess the value of the hub related to risk and safety and whether I intend to take any initiatives in this regard. The establishment of an electricity market hub is important, among other things, in order to create better conditions for demand response and facilitate new market entrants and increase overall competition in the electricity market. The electricity market hub will therefore be a future tool for levelling electricity prices over time if prices will fluctuate more in the future. In June 2015, the Swedish Power Network was commissioned by the Government to develop and operate an electricity market hub. This work is currently under way, and Swedish power networks focus heavily on security issues in this work. The government, for its part, is working to develop a product with proposals for necessary constitutional changes to introduce the electricity market hub. Security issues and issues related to total defence are high on the government's agenda and are given great importance in the work on constitutional changes. Unfortunately, work on this product is delayed. The work on an electricity trader's cent risk model is suspended while waiting for an electricity market hub to take place. However, in order to avoid misunderstandings, it should be pointed out that an electricity market hub will be built as a fully independent system, and it will not be possible to influence any installations via the system, unlike the case of Coop, for example, to which Camilla Brodin refers in its interpellation.
i-0cbfa15924033340-232	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Ygeman for his answer. During the current term of office, everything related to electricity has become increasingly the focus, for both positive and unfortunately also negative reasons. On the positive side, we have the fact that fossil-free electricity is a key to coping with the climate change of our country and that electricity is an enabler that we should be able to find a broad consensus around. On the negative side, we can talk about running electricity prices, increasingly unstable conditions for companies and a stress in the system. The early phase-out of Ringhals is increasingly noticeable, and the margins are no longer the same. I believe that both the opposition and the government parties want the electricity market to function satisfactorily. The electricity market represents a huge challenge. In 25 years, the electricity system will double. The actors in the electricity market have a long list of measures that are much more prioritised than the hub. If we are to succeed in the energy transition, we must give priority to policies that support this development. The hub doesn't lead there. We are some opposition parties that have for years marked against the risks of the electricity market hub, and I am a little worried that the government is not listening. In fact, the work has cost a lot of money and the hub invites spying. Nor does it solve the real problems in the electricity market. I assume, however, that the Minister carefully followed the cyberattack against Coop and the criticism that followed the incident. We are talking here about Sweden's second largest database of personal data, if the project with the hub takes place. If this is to be launched, the safety issue must be quite clear. The analysis of Swedish power grids is not enough to make us Christian Democrats and other parts of the opposition secure on this issue. We can't take any chances for nothing. I note that the Government's response refers to the fact that the hub is planned to be a completely independent system, that it will not be possible to influence it via any facilities and that my example with Coop is not comparable. It goes without saying that it will be a secure system. But the hand on the heart-- do we really have any reason to worry? Sometimes it feels like we're a little too naive in this country. Madam President, I would like Instead, my party and several others in the opposition are in favour of a renewed political reform being replaced by proposals that really increase competition in the electricity market and strengthen the position of customers in the market. If the Minister really wants to solve the problems in the electricity market, we are very much in favour of contributing, but together let us bury the issue of the electricity market hub and the electricity trade centre model. The industry needs a response on this issue, and we look forward to a solution-oriented dialogue focusing on the best interests of the electricity market.
i-0cbfa15924033340-241	Madam President, I would like This is an old reform. A hub would fit hugely well in a centralized model for the electricity market that we in Sweden have had before. We have had nuclear power and hydropower and large lines from the north, and then we have distributed it, and the same thing has happened to nuclear power in the south, which has also gone through large pipelines. But now that's not what the future looks like. The future is based on completely different things. It is based on a diversification, which we in Sweden promote and think is very good, both of renewable sun, wind and water and of nuclear power as a base. If you have hydropower and nuclear power in the portfolio you also have more opportunity to expand much wine and solar electricity, which are more mobile energy types. Furthermore, as Mr Brodin says, it is a great security risk that we gather all the data from all our energy production and consumption in Sweden in a hub. It's the spy's Christmas Eve to get over this kind of data. Moreover, when we cannot actually benefit from it, it only makes us vulnerable. The winnings aren't in this hub. This is something that has existed before, but the future will surely go more and more toward me producing my own solar power on the roof of my apartment or house and using it in my electric car. Much will be locally produced, and the larger industries will receive electricity from larger plants. Then a hub is an old product, simply. Producers are also consumers, and consumers are producers, which means that we will need to be able to measure at individual or organisational level what we do and do not do and thus be able to extract data on how we can improve the efficiency of our electricity use and behaviour. It will also contribute to increased competition and flexibility. To then build into a large, unwieldy and actually safety-dangerous hub I can't see the finesse with. Not only do we need to look at Coop, but we can look at previous scandals as we have encountered problems in Sweden in cyber security issues. Minister Ygeman knows what it can mean when Sweden cannot keep the IT systems safe, and it is a greater danger than anything if all our electricity production and our electricity consumption are collected in a database.
i-0cbfa15924033340-248	Madam President, I would like One wonders whether the interpeller and the co-debater have read at all what is at the basis of this. I can inform you that this is a Nordic project that was launched by the Alliance Government when the ministers came from the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Liberals. It has been introduced in Denmark, Norway and Estonia, and Finland plans to implement it in the near future. You're referring to this with words like security threats, spy threats, and the spy's Christmas Eve. Are you really saying that this is what it looks like in our neighbouring countries?
i-0cbfa15924033340-251	Madam President, I would like We have heard Minister Ygeman say that we think our neighbours accept spying and so on. I think it's quite astounding. I'll try to explain a little more what it is that we actually want to see instead. We're not 15 years back in time, we're here and now, 2021. What, then, do we want, who are critical of the whole idea of the electricity market hub and the electricity trading centre model? What alternative proposals do we have? I don't think Ygeman has read what we've written about this before. It is quite justified that concrete proposals should also be made when you want to do something else, and I am happy to take the opportunity to develop this a little. One example is that we want to abolish the directives. A relatively large proportion of electricity customers do not make an active choice of electricity companies and in most cases are assigned to an agreement that is more expensive. I believe that this form of contract should be abolished now and that customers should instead be allowed to choose an electricity contract in the same way as for broadband and telephony. This change would reduce costs for customers. Another example is the strengthening of the regulatory framework for switching suppliers. The customer's position and right to change electricity companies need to be strengthened, and fair commercial practices should be rewarded. The Swedish Energy Market Authority believes that we should be tasked with developing developed rules for supplier switching, including more clear and secure proxy management and clarity towards customers around terms and conditions. This change would also strengthen the role of customers in the electricity market. Then there is the question of the simplified electricity bills, which were once referred to as the job of the hub and the power-trader-centre model. Many customers today experience electricity bills as quite messy, which makes it difficult to be active as a customer and to choose electricity companies. We Christian Democrats do not want to see a forced common invoice handling as with the electric trading centre model. On the other hand, we want to see an industry-wide dialogue initiated. If voluntary work is not successful, we do not exclude others and perhaps more binding measures to simplify invoices for customers. This change would strengthen the role of customers in the electricity market. We therefore see no need for either the model or the hub. But the big question remains. Could the government bury the issue of the hub? Neither the industry nor we from the opposition parties want this issue to continue to be debated for another decade. I am quite sure that the government would rather focus on other energy issues, such as how to shorten lead times for necessary government decisions and how to phase out all fossil-based electricity from the Swedish system, while at the same time developing a secure, stable and weather-independent electricity generation that ensures both our welfare and climate. I would like the government to put all its strength into it in the future.
i-0cbfa15924033340-261	Madam President, I would like The proposals presented here by Mrs Brodin are also supported. There's a lot more to do than centralize the whole system. I am a little disappointed by Minister Ygeman, who responds in such brief terms to these serious questions. There is nothing so important that we can secure our country's security. If I make myself totally dependent on electricity and put all this in a hub, it may be that the whole of society stands still, both our industry and our transportation, and therefore I think it would be nice if Minister Ygeman could problematize this and explain why there would be such a great value in creating this particular hub. Instead, I believe that we can do a great deal in terms of how we, as consumers and small producers, can become more flexible and create much smarter systems. With all due respect, I would also like to say that a great deal is happening in this area, as we have said in previous debates. It is difficult to keep up with the enormous development that is taking place. It's a matter of being proactive. It is not always we can see 10 – 15 years into the future, but when we already see that this is a product of another time, I think that this project should be scrapped.
i-0cbfa15924033340-265	Madam President, I would like I understand that Lotta Olsson and Camilla Brodin devote all their speaking time to talking about anything other than what the interpellation is about. I would have done the same if I had stood up for the statements made by Lotta Olsson and Camilla Brodin. So it was the alliance government, the parties you represent, that initiated this. It is located in Denmark, Norway and Estonia. You call it the espionage's Christmas Eve. Did the alliance government – the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – take the initiative for the spy Christmas Eve? Did Norway introduce the spies' Christmas Eve? Has Denmark introduced the spy Christmas Eve? Has Estonia introduced the spy Christmas Eve? Is that what you're saying here? Finland, Madam President, is about to introduce this. Are they about to introduce the spies' Christmas Eve? Lotta Olsson says that I will develop how this can affect the entire electricity production in Sweden. I did it in my first answer: not at all. There is no link between the electricity market hub and electricity generation. That's what I said in my interpellation response. Why should I have to develop it again? Madam President, I would like Our intention is to complete what the Alliance Government has begun and what all the countries in our neighbourhood are doing.
i-0cbfa15924033340-270	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your speech! I feel a little saddened by not even getting a response to the issues I have. I'll still come up with a solution instead of what this hub would mean. It is quite right, as Minister Ygeman says, that the hub was initiated by the alliance government. But it's been a long time. Progress is continuing, and when you see developments, you need to take these problems seriously instead of trying to get a hold of a failed project. I am definitely the one who can actually say that we may not have thought the whole idea through. But then we didn't have all the facts on the table either. It shouldn't take this long. And regardless of whether our neighbours have come up with the brilliant idea of completing this project in their own way and thinking that they will do so as safely as possible, we Christian Democrats do not believe that it is possible to implement the reform with the hub in that way. I regret that we do not seem to be coming closer to a good conclusion on this unwanted eternity machine, because it has taken a very long time. Surely I had hoped that we could hear a small opening from the Government and that it was realised that the electricity market hubs are not being demanded by market players, nor by large parts of this House. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to ask my questions. I am sure we will have reason to come back to this issue at a later date.
i-0cbfa15924033340-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for the interpellation! Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for the debate. I note that, despite many contributions, you were unable to answer why what works well in Denmark and Norway and is to be introduced in Finland would be a major problem in Sweden. I think that's where the shoe squeezes. It works perfectly well in these countries and does not represent the risks that you claim it would pose here. In this sense, there is good reason for the participants in this interpellation debate to update their social analysis with how this actually works in our world. With this, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-0cbfa15924033340-277	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me two questions. The first question is what I intend to do to strengthen the ownership of the country's landowners when new management streets are planned and will be built in Sweden. The second question is whether I intend to take some kind of initiative to force electricity companies to build more ground cable instead of new air lines. Ownership is constitutionally protected, and it is of course important that the owner of land can safely dispose of it. At the same time, it may sometimes be necessary to restrict the individual's ownership if it is necessary for urgent public interests. Electricity is often considered to be of such general interest, and therefore there are rules in the Expropriation Act and the Code of Conduct that allow access to electricity lines even if a network company would not agree with individual landowners along the licensed route. Sweden is facing a great need for increased access to electricity in the future through both increased production and capacity in the electricity grid, which means that new plants will have to be built. At the same time, it is of course important that they are built in the right place and designed appropriately to reduce conflicts between an installation and opposing interests, such as private landowners. It is the Swedish Energy Agency and the network companies that plan and operate the electricity grids in Sweden. According to the rules of the Electricity Act, the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate examines applications for network concession for higher voltage lines. Airline and ground cables both have their advantages and disadvantages, for example in terms of operational aspects and different types of environmental impact. However, at higher voltage levels, overhead pipes offer several benefits that are desirable. They do, of course, generally lead to a larger ground breach and may have a greater impact on some opposing interests, but overhead pipes are very safe and, above all, considerably easier to troubleshoot and repair when any problem arises. Air lines also have a longer technical service life, and they are easier to make changes to, for example, if the voltage needs to be increased or the stretch adjusted. Moreover, they are often cheaper to build, which ultimately leads to lower costs for consumers. Of course, the question of which technology should be used for a given management and the extent to which it should be drawn must be determined in each case on the basis of current circumstances and possibilities and also assessed against how management affects its environment. The use of ground cables or overhead lines may vary in different situations and environments, and it should therefore be up to the network owner and testing authorities to determine what is most appropriate in each case. According to the Environmental Code, activities must be located at the most appropriate location and the best possible technology reasonably required should be used. The landowners concerned have the right to speak in the planning and application process. The Government considers that the current regulation effectively provides protection for landowners and the opportunity to express their views on an activity while at the same time providing the necessary tools for the development of socially important infrastructure. The design of this infrastructure should be left to the operators of the networks and to the licensing authorities.
i-0cbfa15924033340-283	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, although it was not the answer I would have liked from a government that has a clear mission to strengthen property rights. It is good that the Minister states that property rights are constitutionally protected. But in its practical work, the government does not seem to care about that very thing, because the Minister actually also says in his reply here in the speaker's chair: the government believes that the current regulation effectively provides protection for landowners and the opportunity to express its views. That's what the minister says in the answer. The Minister continues: the design of the infrastructure should be left to the operators of the networks and to the licensing authorities. It is not a word about strengthening the property rights of those who actually own the land, over which the pipelines are supposed to be drawn. This was really the reason for the interpellation, not to get an answer to what the network companies want to do and that the government has not planned to do anything about the situation. Madam President, I would like The government apparently believes that network companies and authorities can continue to run over landowners and ownership rights around the country. The government is currently, if not done, in negotiations on property rights. I had hoped that the Minister here today would have had a better proposal. I had hoped that those negotiations would have resulted in something that would have caused the Minister to change and adjust his response today. Madam President, I would like Ownership is constitutionally protected. Then the landowners should have better legal protection and help in disputes. Society should better explore which options the draw requires and what other options are available to bring management forward. According to the environmental code, you should choose the best technology, i.e. more ground cable than overhead cables. It is intended to reduce protection distances and intrusions. Today, it is preferable to build overhead pipes. You have different reasons for that, but one thing is that it's simple and that it's a little cheaper to build. It has also been claimed that this is less of a concern, which is not true. Compensation for the affected landowners should be substantially increased. Some of the tough negotiations are just appeals and legal disputes that drag off. It is clear that landowners are run over when you come in and pick up land from them and, moreover, pay no more than perhaps 1.25 of the value, which is eaten up quite quickly, in a number of years. Nor are there any pipelines in state forests and state reserves. Because they're protected. But they are not constitutionally protected, as the property rights of individual landowners are. The state, county boards and others must not drag through the state's forests and land. However, you can walk around the reserves, so that more individual landowners are affected. It's okay. You just threaten the landowner: Okay, either you agree to this or we'll run you over in court, because we'll always get right in the end. Nevertheless, I hope that these proposals will be included in the ownership agreement that may be presented shortly and that ownership rights will be strengthened, as was the demand from Parliament. The Minister also claims that there will be less damage to air lines. That, according to a report from ENTSO-E, is not true. Ground cables have fewer errors per kilometre than air cables and also have higher availability. I recommend that the minister read the report. In addition, Denmark has decided that all new lines should be built with ground cable. There are certainly exceptions also in Denmark, but Sweden should perhaps look at what Denmark is doing on this issue.
i-0cbfa15924033340-294	Madam President, I would like Just as the interpellier himself said in the speaker's chair, Sweden has strong protection for property rights. As the interpellier also mentioned, over time we have increased the compensation to landowners who are exposed to landmines due to urgent interests. Sten Bergheden believes that he knows better than Swedish power networks how to draw the lines, he knows better than the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate how to draw them and he knows better than courts how to draw them. The evidence of Sten Bergheden's almighty wisdom in this area is a dissipated figure from a report. There are a variety of factors that make overhead lines a better option for those who draw a high voltage line. It is well documented in the research. There are also a number of indicative court decisions on this issue. This is therefore not something we need to discuss in the Parliament's pulpit. I have two questions for Sten Bergheden. It is the case that Sweden is electrified. We're going to expand new power generation, we're going to make a climate shift and we're going to build battery factories, maybe even in Sten Bergheden's own constituency. For all these projects, electricity lines are needed. Today it takes between 8 and 15 years to build a power line. How much longer does Sten Bergheden think it takes to build a power line with his proposal? And how much longer will West Sweden have to wait for a new battery factory to be built or for new electricity production to come into place? I also have another question for Sten Bergheden. Around Sweden, moderate municipal politicians have stopped wind farms and other new electricity generation. Power lines have been stopped. Can Sten Bergheden mention a single moderate-controlled municipality that has not stopped a power line?
i-0cbfa15924033340-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's a little strange that I'm gonna stand here and explain to the minister what happened. It is clear that you have problems in building new lines from the north down to the south. You turn off two nuclear power plants in Ringhals and create problems throughout southern Sweden with huge increases in electricity prices and other things, and then you stand and raise the issue to us. You have created this problem. You have created a shortage of power in southern Sweden. Now you expect to draw new wires, which is necessary for many different parts. However, when drawing up the new pipelines, consideration should also be given to landowners and property rights. But you're the one who created the power shortage. It is you who have created the great need to draw the great pipelines through the country. I also know from my own constituency how the government and authorities are actively working to shut down small-scale hydroelectric plants. They don't produce much, but they still contribute. It is clear that you get problems if you shut down power and to draw new power from northern Sweden and then try to blame the old government. And you should have problems when you behave in such a way and put the country in such a situation. When I have studied this, I have also learned something strange. We're buying ground lines from Korea. But we in Sweden cannot repair the ground lines ourselves, but we have to wait in Koreans who come to Sweden by plane to fix the lines. It is clear that it takes time and that it creates costs in the case of land pipelines. There's one thing the minister could check right away. Why can't we have wires in the ground that we ourselves can manage to manage and repair at the required pace without having to get personnel from Korea to Sweden? It is also a shortcoming if we find ourselves in a crisis situation and cannot get people here to repair our pipelines. This should be dealt with immediately by the Minister. I also made another point. County administrative boards and municipalities can say no to electricity lines, but the landowner is the hardest hit in these situations. You even go around the reservations because the government refuses to let pipelines through state forests and state reserves. It's easier to run over the landowners. As for me knowing better than the power companies, it is clear that the power companies are keen to keep this. You pay a relatively low compensation and run over the landowners. It is the landowners who bear the cost. Then I ask the Minister what he intends to do to strengthen property rights in Sweden, which is constitutionally protected. But the Minister does not have an answer, but refers to the power companies, to the fact that they are the ones who solve this. The government sits in the gallery and watches as they run over one landowner after another. It's serious. Madam President, I would like I would like an answer from the Minister. How does the Minister see being able to draw power lines through reserves, state forests and other things? Are they protected from taking responsibility now that we need new electricity lines due to shut down electricity production but also because we need more electricity and more networks in Sweden?
i-0cbfa15924033340-307	Madam President, I would like Let me first correct Sten Bergheden when it comes to a rather important matter. We have an electricity surplus in Sweden of about 35 terawatt hours. In 2010, when the Moderates led the government, we had a shortage of electricity. Then we were dependent on imports. Today we export electricity. Sten Bergheden should be pleased about that. Sten Bergheden further pretends that he does not know what the nature reserve is. I don't think I need to tell Sten Bergheden that the goal of nature reserves is to protect nature from interference. That is why nature reserves are being set up. I do not think that we and the Moderates have different views, even if Sten Bergheden pretends that this is the case. Sten Bergheden asked me a question about ownership. I'll be happy to answer it. We have the sharpest protection you can have for property rights. It is constitutionally protected, and it is tested in an independent and perhaps one of the best legal and judicial systems in the world. It is not being tried by me and not by Sten Bergheden, but by independent courts in a legal society. It's a system that I think we should be happy about. Madam President, I would like I note that Sten Bergheden does not answer any of my questions. That's why I'm going to repeat them so that Sten Bergheden has a chance to answer. It was probably just an oversight on the part of Sten Bergheden, because he is so keen that I will answer his questions. My first question is: Is there a single moderate-controlled municipality that Sten Bergheden knows that has not stopped the construction of a power line? The second question is: how much longer will it take with Sten Bergheden's proposal to build the electricity lines that are needed for West Sweden's battery plants? It is electricity lines that are also needed to expand new energy production, for Northvolt to build Europe's largest battery factory in Sweden or for Hybrid to make the world's first carbon-free steel. Companies and industry need to know how much longer they need to have in their planning horizon if Sten Bergheden's proposal risks going through.
i-0cbfa15924033340-313	Madam President, I would like Of course we need more power lines, but that is precisely what my interpellation today has as its purpose. I wanted to hear from the Minister how he had intended to strengthen ownership when new lines are to be drawn through Sweden, but then the Minister referred to the network companies and the authorities and said that he trusts them. This is what the landowners out there realized. They sit themselves in trials and have no chance of coping with these parts. It is quite reasonable that society has to move forward in certain situations, but what protection do landowners have for their stuff? What compensation do they receive for their land? What constitutional protection do they basically have for their lands? Madam President, I would like I also received a reply from the Minister that the nature reserves are protected. Thus, a land or air line cannot be allowed to pass through a larger nature reserve, as it is more valuable than all privately owned land around the entire reserve. Is it not reasonable for the government and society to take some responsibility and contribute to this situation rather than burdening the country's landowners with more trespassing? It is possible to add more ground cable, but the Minister refrains from doing so and hands it over to – precisely that, Madam President – authorities and network companies to solve. The Government does not intend to protect the landowners or strengthen ownership even though this was a commission from the Swedish Parliament to implement. So the government does not intend to strengthen ownership.
i-0cbfa15924033340-317	Madam President, I would like Three times Sten Bergheden had to answer two simple questions. He couldn't even answer a question. I have answered all of Sten Bergheden's questions. I guess that says a little bit about how strong his argumentation is. Madam President, I would like Although Sten Bergheden wants to make the time for power lines longer, even if he pretends to have a different process from that of the government and even if he pretends that constitutional protection is not constitutional protection, he does not have a very different policy. His proposal will extend the construction time for wiring by, I know, maybe two or three years. Sten Bergheden himself could not answer that question. However, he wants the proposals to be examined in the same court because he wants them to be examined on the basis of the same criteria. The Moderates do not want the Riksdag to make technology choices for electricity lines, nor does Sten Bergheden want the Riksdag to make technology choices for electricity lines. This is something he pretends to want, Madam President, when he stands in the Parliament's pulpit and thinks he can easily meet the demands of the electorate in the constituency.
i-0cbfa15924033340-320	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson has asked me three questions. The first question is what the decisive criterion was for the government to judge the appeal in the case of Ekhyddan – Hemsjö to the favor of Swedish power grids. The second question is what assessments I think it is reasonable to make in a socio-economic cost-benefit assessment in the construction of main grids for electricity and on land use, future production on the ground and human habitat were included in the socio-economic calculation when the government decided the appeal. The third question is in what way I believe that the Government has taken into account the conditions and views of the Energy Market Inspectorate in its decision and how they are reflected in the government decision. The management that Anders Åkesson has asked questions about is divided into two cases: one for the Ekhyddan section to Nybro and one for the Nybro section to Hemsjö. The reasons for the government's assessment are set out in the decisions, and I answer the questions on the basis of what the government has said there. In both cases, the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate has rejected the application of the Swedish National Agency for Swedish Power Networks as the inspection has assessed that Swedish power networks have not shown that the operations meet the requirements for suitable location in combination with the best possible technology. The inspection concluded that the Swedish power grid could not demonstrate that a partial site or a part other route would be technically or economically unreasonable. In the decision for the management between Nybro and Hemsjö, for which the government annulled the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's decision and notified the network concession, the government made a different assessment than the inspection. The Government considered that the material included in the Swedish power grid was sufficient to demonstrate that the air line in the requested range is the best possible technology that can reasonably be required in the present case. The government will return the case to the inspection in order to establish the necessary conditions for the construction and maintenance of the management. For the stretch between Ekhyddan and Nybro, the Government agreed with the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's assessment that the species protection inventory was insufficient. Otherwise, the Government considered that the basis was sufficient to make an assessment of the application. The Government therefore decided to return the case to the inspection for re-examination after the Swedish power grid submits a complementary species protection inventory. The project for the lines between Ekhyddan and Hemsjö is classified as a project of common interest for the integration of the European energy market and constitutes an important strengthening of the Swedish transmission network. As regards economic profitability assessments, the Swedish Energy Market Authority submitted a report in spring 2018 on what such assessments should include for investments in the transmission network. As stated in the Government's proposal Modern permit processes for electricity grids are intended to clarify in the Decree what socio-economic analyses Swedish power grids should do, based on what the inspection writes in its report. This work is currently under way within the Government Office.
i-0cbfa15924033340-327	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Ygeman, for your answer! Interpellation is prompted by an extremely important and urgent construction of a power line in southern Sweden. It is very extensive, and it happens as part of a core network line through Småland and Blekinge and is done under the direction of Swedish power network. Madam President, I would like A modern society and its inhabitants have demands for new and functioning social infrastructure. There are very few, if any, who question the construction of power lines, roads and railways or the cabling of fibres. However, there are demands for participation in the planning process ahead of construction, and there is a demand that you be heard, that reasonable consideration be taken and, of course, that modern and resource-efficient technology be used. This does not constitute any exception whatsoever to the construction of power lines. Since 2014, a project has been ongoing in parts of Småland and Blekinge. The land ingress is approximately eight square kilometres. It is slightly smaller than some of Stockholm's nearby municipalities, but it is still a significant land area. The case has recently been the subject of Minister Ygeman's and Government's review when Swedish power grids tried and won the government's response to the demand that the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate had made for the project. Madam President, I would like There is, of course, an expectation when it comes to a social developer, in this case Swedish power grid, that modern and resource-efficient solutions are used and that you are responsive. Of course, people affected, such as landowners and residents, have the expectation that modern technology, which in parts of the route is buried and which would mean a minor land invasion, seems a reasonable alternative. The designer Swedish power grid, however, constantly claims that it is impossible even in parts of the stretch to use other technology than the standard one, i.e. traditional air-hung line with a large land use. What surprises many of those who follow the issue and who are committed to it is the lack of responsiveness shown by the projector Swedish power grid and shows in the dialogue with those concerned, whether it concerns municipalities, regions, landowners or individuals. Madam President, I would like My assessment, which I believe the Government shares, is that if it is even to be possible to build the necessary social infrastructure – such as we need – anyone who projects and runs such things on behalf of Parliament and the Government must be much more responsive and open to constructive dialogue. Otherwise, we will have huge lead times that very long court proceedings can result in. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed this and concluded that the assessment mechanisms that Swedish power networks previously applied were not good enough. Therefore, the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate was commissioned to give a second opinion on the economics that Swedish power networks claimed existed when building. The Energy Market Inspectorate was given a good and necessary role to judge alongside. That is why the surprise was great, Madam President, when, following the appeal by the Swedish power grid, the government ruled against the decision of the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate on the favor of Swedish power grids. I have several questions. What was the crucial criterion for the government to judge the appeal to the benefit of the Swedish power grid? What Swedish power grids in particular tried out was that they had not been able to find an appropriate location in combination with the best possible technology.
i-0cbfa15924033340-335	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answers so far. These huge challenges in the social infrastructure are many of us who are inspired by. The current issue of power management through Småland and Blekinge I have encountered in several contexts, as I come from Kronoberg County. I haven't encountered anyone who's against the investment itself. Everyone understands the need. But I see obvious risks that the resistance to the intended technical solution is so strong. Yesterday, for example, the municipal councillor in Tingsryd stated in the local newspaper Smålandsposten that he is very concerned and does not want the Swedish power network to have permission to enter the municipality's land. This is a bit of what my colleague Åkesson was into. We are stuck in discussions and in a technology solution that can lead to it taking longer than we all really want. I'm not a strong current technician and I don't want to get involved in a technical discussion. But in addition to listening to and reading Svenska Kraftnät's clear argumentation for its technology choice, I have also taken note of the expertise in the field that is held by Hitachi in Ludvika, former ABB, for example. They say something else: that a low-ground technical solution is possible. Then I have to say that I am surprised that two such large players can have such different views. It is not up to me to judge it, but I cannot allow myself not to think about why this is happening. In addition, these technical solutions of burying into land, as I understand it, are being used in Denmark and Germany to a greater extent than in Sweden and especially Småland. My question to the Government will be: How does the Government see that it is done as it is done in our neighbouring countries but cannot be done so in Småland, Blekinge and other places in Sweden?
i-0cbfa15924033340-338	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Åkesson and Per Schöldberg for the interpellation and questions. I think the discussion shows what Anders Åkesson is also concerned with: the importance of being clear about the advantages and disadvantages of different technology choices and the importance of being sensitive to the different local interests. In all cases of this kind, there will be different societal interests on both sides. It is not a matter of cake or ice cream, but perhaps rather a balance between plague and cholera – both options are perceived as having serious disadvantages. Ground cable installations are perceived by the projectors as more expensive and, above all, more difficult to maintain and repair. I think the latter is more important than the previous one. The great advantage is that they provide lower land penetration, although there may not always be lower environmental impacts. They are then perceived to make the land still usable. The advantage of overhead pipes is that they are economically cheaper but also significantly more reliable. This does not mean that one technology or another is impossible at any time. But the stronger the current you have and the more important the electricity line is for many people, the more important it becomes for the operator that it is built as an air pipeline with the ability to quickly fix it and restore the electricity. It is easy to imagine that anyone who has, for example, a steel mill, where every second of the interruption costs many millions of crowns, is very keen that the electricity line be drawn in air. However, if you are going to draw a pipeline to an individual wind turbine in Denmark, for example, a second or a minute break does not mean the same impact. Then the calculation also looks different. This is probably the main reason why different assessments are made on different occasions in Sweden. We are also building ground cable in Sweden. That is also, I believe, the reason why different assessments are made on different occasions in our neighbouring countries. It is not black and white in that way. With that, I think I answered Per Schöldberg's question. Anders Åkesson's question remains, namely which was the decisive reason. I wish I could give a very clear answer to that question. But the rather sad political response is that it was a balanced assessment and that the socio-economic benefits of air traffic control outweighed the disadvantages in this case. I have a few seconds left on my speaking time. Madam President, one might well wonder whether it would not be important for the state to make it clearer when and under what voltage levels and circumstances it is reasonable to proceed with overhead lines and below which voltage levels it is more reasonable to proceed with ground lines. It is possible that this would lead to less conflict and increase the possibility of dialogue. This would perhaps also avoid disputes and make it possible to build wires faster.
i-0cbfa15924033340-344	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is therefore an overall assessment. I would probably have responded in a similar way if I had been in the role of the Council of State, because that is how it is done. Let me repeat, Madam President, my question No 2 in the interpellation! It reads as follows:.What assessments does the Government consider reasonable in a socio-economic cost-benefit assessment for the construction of main grids for electric power? Is land consumption, future production on the ground and people's habitat part of the socio-economic calculation when the government settles the appeal? In his reply, Minister Ygeman refers to the proposal Modern permit processes for electricity grids, which the Riksdag supported here this spring. However, Madam President, it is mainly about electricity grids with tensions and scope that are far below what is the case in the core network that Swedish power grids are responsible for building and about which the current interpellation is concerned. I therefore believe that the Government needs to develop the answer a little more on this point. In addition to referring to a proposal which, in any case, I do not really consider to be relevant to the present case, how does the Government see us in this case cleaning up eight square kilometres of land? It is forest land, arable land, people's living land and people's living environment that are affected very much, Madam President. Has the Government at all assessed and evaluated other technologies than conventional ones, which I feel some are concerned about the exploiter, state-owned Swedish power grid, so stubbornly clings to? The national economy must not be confused with the business economy. It is clear that from the perspective of Svenska Kraftnät it is cheaper to get over relatively cheap raw land for 1.25 times the market value with a very long concession period and a relatively cheap technology compared to doing a much less land penetration and using a more expensive technology. But then there is the socio-economic perspective. What the Riksdag decided after the announcement of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, Madam President, was that the socio-economic assessment should weigh more heavily. And Swedish power networks would not be allowed to do it themselves, but the Energy Market Inspectorate would do it. When the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate does so and finds that the Swedish power grid has not made a good enough application, the Swedish power grid is overtested, and the government will then judge it as if the old system were in force. That is what amazes people in the countryside very much, Madam President and the Government. I share the ambition of the Government and everyone else that we must get the pipelines in place faster than quickly. Otherwise, we have extraordinary problems in our society.
i-0cbfa15924033340-350	Madam President, I would like I think that all the things Anders Åkesson asks me if they can be included in the socio-economic assessments could be included in some way. Socio-economic calculations in all areas of infrastructure are constantly evolving. But even with a highly developed socio-economic model, there will probably not be any escape from the two basic factors here, namely that one technology will be more suitable for certain voltage levels, and the other technology will be less suitable for certain voltage levels. I believe that whatever model is being developed will be the basic hypothesis. Then there may be exceptions for certain stretches or certain places where you get a different outcome. Then Anders Åkesson asks me if it is reasonable for so much land to be used for socially important management infrastructure. My simple answer to that question is: Yes, it is a prerequisite for us to be able to have reliable social infrastructure and to be able to make the green transition that Sweden and the whole world are facing. As in all the issues that we as politicians have to deal with, we rarely choose between two really good alternatives or between one that only has upsides and one that has bottoms. If you're going to have electricity, you have to have wires. If you're going to have a lot of electricity, you have to have high-voltage power lines. The higher the voltage level of the wires, the more appropriate it is to draw them into the air line and thus the less appropriate to draw them into the ground line. Should we, however, choose to drag long distances in ground lines with high voltage levels, we build into uncertainties in our energy system that are at risk of creating large costs. Anders Åkesson also asks about the balance between business and economics and says that we cannot allow business economic assessments in Svenska Kraftnät to stand against the socio-economic assessments. That's right in isolation. But the business economy in the Swedish power grid, how to build socially important infrastructure in a good and cheap way or cost-effective way, also creates the national economy. If we choose a ten times more expensive electricity line, it is the electricity grid consumers who have to bear that cost. If we choose a technology where interruptions take a lot longer to troubleshoot and fix, it is the electricity grid consumers who are affected by the longer interruptions. Also seen from the horizon of the Swedish power grid, it becomes important for the national economy to make the real technology choices.
i-0cbfa15924033340-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this, Minister Ygeman! I had three questions. The government has responded to all of them, but I am lifting them up again. The Government has the opportunity to develop its answers a little in its closing speech. My third question was: in what way does the Government believe that in this decision taken by the Government, the Government has taken into account the views of the Energy Market Inspectorate and has weighed them into the Government's decision? The Government replied that part of the project, the northern one, had been referred back, on the grounds that the inventory was not properly done. Madam President, I would like I dare to ask you a question. Eight square kilometres is only slightly smaller than Sundbyberg's municipality, which happens to be the home municipality of the head office of the Swedish power network. When Swedish power grids were to build a corresponding line in central Stockholm, the company acquired a huge drilling unit and is currently drilling under Stockholm. It must surely be categorized as a cablification. It's not a dig-in, it's actually a front-end wire. It is reasonable, Madam President, because it was already realised in advance that people's living environment will be difficult to understand, that people have views, that it is expensive land and that it is possible to count home. It's a huge drilling machine. I think it's one of the world's largest drilling machines for its purpose. Madam President, I would like There are also good examples from southern Sweden. There it was the same company that built the last piece of the management called Swebalt and was going to connect us with the Baltics. There they initially wanted to walk with an air line across the plains of South Sweden. But it was quickly continued as a land - laid line. So the technology, the Government, was mixed between air and ground. Vips was the landowners up and said: Go up here, and we will help. It came into place quickly. I would just like to conclude with a good and opportunity-oriented example of how I believe our jointly-owned company could act.
i-0cbfa15924033340-364	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the example! We need to gather good examples of how we can deepen the discussion with landowners and residents, but without making excessive compromises on the operational safety and cost-effectiveness of our systems. There's a risk of getting mad afterwards. I can understand that it may seem provocative to drill a tunnel in central Stockholm and at the same time cut down forest to make a lead street in southern Sweden. At the same time, there is a difference if there are 1 million people living in residential buildings in one place or if you pull out the management of forest or arable land. I believe that all parties in the Swedish Parliament realise that there must be a balance between them. We would simply not be able to afford electricity in this country if, over long distances, we were to extract the electricity in the way we have done in the inner city of Stockholm. The cost of using this technology over long distances would simply risk becoming astronomical. With that, I would like to thank you for a good debate and constructive input from both the interpeller and the co-debater. Thank you very much.
i-0cbfa15924033340-368	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to take steps to ensure that fuel prices in Sweden are at least in parity with prices in the countries with which we are competing. Like Thomas Morell, I note that the prices of petrol and diesel have risen sharply in recent months. There are several reasons for this, including the recent rise in the price of crude oil and the growth in the economy following the pandemic and demand. Some refineries also shut down operations during the pandemic and it takes time to reach normal production capacity. This means, as Thomas Morell says, increased transport costs for hauliers and their customers. However, it is not unique for Sweden, but costs are also increasing for the haulage industry in the rest of Europe. It is worth noting that no part of the price increase during the year is due to increased fuel taxes. The last time an active decision was made to change fuel taxes was when the so-called bnp indexation was paused for 2021 and 2022, which means a lower energy tax. There should be order and order on Swedish roads regardless of the level of fuel prices. Since 2014, the government has tightened the legislation and taken a series of measures to create order on the roads and decent conditions. Not least, the government has been a leader in the work on the so-called mobility package, which was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council last summer. It will take effect throughout the EU in February 2022, which means better working conditions for professional drivers, fair competition and increased road safety in the transport sector in Europe. We need to switch so that we can use other than fossil fuels in our vehicles, such as electricity or sustainable renewable fuels. The government is working towards a transition that means that greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector will in principle have to be zero by 2045. Strong action is needed in the areas of transport efficiency, electrification, sustainable renewable fuels and energy efficient vehicles and ships to switch transport to fossil freedom and to achieve Parliament's climate targets.
i-0cbfa15924033340-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have a diesel price today that is all-time-high, you might say. The price has risen by just over 30 per cent this year alone. True, this is largely due to the rise in world oil prices. But we also have a different situation in Sweden, namely that we have a higher reduction obligation than the rest of Europe has. This means that we get up quite a lot above the price that is normal in Europe; the difference is somewhere between 2.50 and 3 crowns gallon. For a competitive market – which both the haulage industry and the country's farmers have – this is a huge cost to take. It must, of course, somehow be pushed out on consumers. That means we get higher food prices. It is also more expensive to buy clothes, to collect medicine and such things because the transport costs are pushed into the goods that we buy. As far as farmers are concerned, I have quite close contacts with transporters who drive for farmers. Today, many people testify to farmers who are prepared to stop their production, whether it be meat production or traditional agriculture. You don't make it go around. Fuel prices have increased, electricity prices have increased and fertiliser prices have increased. This reduces the margins or actually passes on the negative side. Many are thus prepared to close down as important a part as our food production. Of course we can say that we can import food instead. But does it get so much better? After all, we have a good agriculture in Sweden. Agriculture is well adapted to climate change, and we have animal husbandry that is good in relation to other countries. Shall we put it down and import food? It's a little backwards. That's a little bit so the government works on soon to say every question: You run backwards into the future. The ambition to control our transport to more environmentally friendly alternatives has the opposite effect when Sweden is so high in price. It removes the conditions for a large part of our industry and our agriculture, and it becomes counterproductive when we have such high diesel prices. Aftonbladet has today an article. The situation is so critical that more and more Swedish farmers are thinking about whether they have the right to produce food at all. In an up-to-date estimate, the LRF can show that the costs for us farmers in recent months have increased with unimaginable SEK 4.1 billion on a yearly basis. Today we have around 15 000 full-time farmers in Sweden. To increase these 4.1 billion on top of all other running costs is both unreasonable and unsustainable in the long run. This is the absolute consequence of the high fuel price. So the LRF writes in Aftonbladet today. It would be interesting to hear what the Government's thoughts and ideas are so that Sweden can land at a level of our fuel costs similar to that prevailing in Europe. Then we can find ourselves in a competitive position at least balancing.
i-0cbfa15924033340-381	Madam President, I would like I agree with Thomas Morell. Prices on the world market, our dependence on diesel and our dependence on fossil gas must be reduced. In this way we can reduce the costs of our agriculture and increase food production in Sweden. Instead of doing like Thomas Morell and buying a new diesel car, you can buy a car that can be driven on renewable raw materials from Sweden's fields and forests. Instead of relying on oil sheiks in Russia or Saudi Arabia, one can make oneself dependent on the peasants on the Plain of the Skara. That's what the future looks like. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats have voted against virtually every option to make the transition to increase the production of Swedish fuels and reduce costs for Sweden's consumers.
i-0cbfa15924033340-384	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Ygeman for his answer. Since the ball was recorded here just before the stop, I guess I'll have to answer that. If you're going to talk about Members of Parliament's choice of car, you might want to acquire enough knowledge, otherwise it might hit you back. The car selection made at home has the latest cleaning technology, Euro 6d-Temp. The car runs perfectly well on HVO. I still have the range, can drive all over the kingdom and don't have to worry about where I'm going to refuel because the car goes just as well on diesel if it's not possible to get fuel. This is therefore the latest treatment technique. The reduction in nitrogen oxides and particulate matter is 97 - 98%. So it is a car that is climate neutral from the first meter you drive. The next time the government is going to race over car choices, maybe he should read on a little bit first. I shall go back to the real issue, namely the price of diesel. If you look at what it looks like in Europe and what you pay for the fuel you see that the price in Belgium is 16 SEK per litre, in Denmark 17 SEK, in Germany 14 SEK, in the Netherlands 16 SEK and in Norway 17 SEK. Then we come to the interesting. In Russia the price is SEK 6 per litre and in Ukraine it is SEK 9 per litre. The high diesel price that we have in Sweden risks pushing even more of the transport carried out on cars driving here illegally. There are fuel depots around the country where fuel is smuggled in from Russia and Ukraine. It's definitely not an MK1 fuel. We have a situation with high diesel prices that knocks away our transport in Sweden, which I claim is done with environmentally friendly and good vehicles from a purely technical point of view. Transport moves to poorer vehicles driven on poorer fuels. We risk putting our own business, both in the haulage industry and in agriculture, at a risk, with this high diesel price. I would argue that this is unjustified. What the government must do is land in setting the price so that it balances with the price that is in the rest of Europe, so that our farmers and hauliers can compete on equal terms. As it is now, two important industries in this country are being knocked away. If the Government is interested, I can arrange for him to go out and look at these illegal fuel depots where fuel is smuggled in. That is what is happening, that is, moving to this poor fuel quality. That can't be the purpose, can it? In the last round, just before the break, the Government said that it is important that we replace the old fossil vehicles with new ones. I agree; it's very important. But the alternative is not on the track. So far, there are no electric tractors, and there are no electric harvesters that can be used in agriculture. It is the usual honest combustion fuel used. Then it can of course be HVO, but then the price shaves even more to well over 20 crowns per litre. This makes the situation even worse for our farmers.
i-0cbfa15924033340-393	Madam President, I would like Of course there are, Thomas Morell, electric tractors. SLU in Uppsala even has self-governing tractors, so that they go out with satellite access to GPS depending on where the most optimal conditions are. And of course there are electric trucks. Volvo recently received the world's largest order for electric trucks. So they exist. But there are also tractors and lorries that go on biofuels, as I mentioned in the previous debate, so that they can be driven on fuels from Swedish forests or on fuels from Swedish agriculture. It is not taxes and reduction obligations that drive up the price of diesel or that have driven up the price of petrol in the past, but international demand has done so. It is our fossil dependence on Russia, Saudi Arabia and other countries that drive up Swedish fuel prices. If we are then to solve this problem, we must free ourselves from this dependence. Today it is a bit more expensive to refuel diesel in Sweden than in the rest of the Nordic countries. But it is a little cheaper to refuel petrol than in Norway, for example. This varies with refinery capacity and with world market availability. But we agree that as low prices as possible for Swedish agriculture and for Swedish transport is good. But we can only achieve this if we also change fuels; otherwise we sacrifice the climate and future competitiveness of the other values. In this light, it will also be very strange, as I mentioned in my previous speech, that the Swedish Democrats have counteracted so many of the measures that enable us to change fuels, reduce costs and future-proof our transport industry and our agriculture.
i-0cbfa15924033340-396	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is said that the international market drives up prices, competition and so on. But it is strange that it only affects Sweden. I have picked up day-to-day figures before the debate. And the price difference is between SEK 2.50 and SEK 3. The competitive market must be as clear down in Germany and Belgium as in Sweden. There is something else that falls here and that makes us get this difference. The fact that Russians and Ukrainians have such a low fuel price is worrying for a number of reasons. However, the creation of an illegal market for the smuggling of fuel still means that we do not achieve the goals we have set ourselves. I get the feeling that the government does not have ground contact and does not know what is going on out there and what forces are in charge of this activity. At the same time, our entrepreneurs are struggling both in the field of haulage and in agriculture with excessively high costs compared to what it is like in other similar countries. There is no justification for the fact that we have a climate threat. If we turn away the bones of domestic entrepreneurship and move it out on others who are not as well counted, we have had a worse situation. You have to be in the game to be able to play the goal. So far, the government hasn't even found the field itself.
i-0cbfa15924033340-402	Madam President, I would like It is probably the case that the basic link is that the richer and more developed a country is, the higher fuel prices are. Then you choose to tax it instead of taxing other things. That is why Norway, Denmark and so on have higher fuel prices and Ukraine, Hungary and Russia have lower fuel prices. Then prices vary with season, refinery capacity and a lot of other things. But there is nothing in the policy of the Swedish Democrats that would drive down petrol or diesel prices so that we could compete with some illegal fuel depots. This problem exists and is real and must be combated policely. It is impossible to have market competition with someone who does not pay any tax and who does not do the right thing anywhere. This problem must be solved policely. Then I understand all the farmers who are having a hard time now that the price is high. I understand all those in the transport industry who are having a tough time now. However, their long-term problems cannot be solved in any other way than freeing ourselves from fossil fuels – that we free ourselves from Russia and Saudi Arabia. We need to start producing more and more fuel ourselves so that Swedish farmers and Swedish haulage companies can refuel fuels from Swedish fields and forests, not fuels from Russia and Saudi Arabia.
i-0cbfa15924033340-405	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me if I have taken any initiative for an analysis to examine the impact of the government's proposal to raise the interest rate on CSN loans. He also asked the reasons for the decision to raise the interest rate on CSN loans rather than to finance the conversion study aid from the State budget. He has also asked me whether I intend to proceed with the increase in the interest rate on CSN loans despite criticisms from several student organisations. I would like to begin by emphasising that Swedish student support is one of the world's most comprehensive and generous student support systems. The student support provides the opportunity for all, regardless of background and prerequisites, to continue their studies. The student support is constantly moving towards more people being recruited for studies; among other things, the total amount within the student funds in 2018 was increased by SEK 300 per study month. A new recruitment start-up support consisting only of grants was introduced in 2017 and is aimed at unemployed people with high educational needs. Increased student grants mean that the need for student loans is reduced, and it can also have a socially levelling effect on recruitment. A historical study aid reform is now being implemented with a new public conversion study aid to support workers to switch up and change during their working lives. It will be easier for people with work experience to learn with the help of the new conversion study support. The state's resources are not, of course, infinite, and in order to make this reform possible, student aid needs to be adjusted. The change in how the interest rate on student loans can be calculated is estimated to have a marginal effect on recruitment. The adjustment makes the management of student loans more consistent with the provisions of the Budget Act on government lending. The Government has announced in the budget proposal for 2022 that the interest rate on student loans should be reformed. A new interest rate model will mean that most borrowers pay a smaller premium on the interest rate. The interest rate is now 0.05%, which is basically a zero rate. The fact that the rise in interest rates may appear to be unusually large is, of course, due to the low base rate. Then even a small increase can be perceived as dramatic. But even with the mark-up, it is important to remember that the interest rate will be significantly lower than other interest rates, i.e. about half a percent in interest for 2023. Together with the comprehensive security rules of the study support system, the continued low interest rate will be an important part of our generous study funding system. The Central Board of Student Support has now been tasked with developing a new model for calculating the interest rate on student loans. In particular, the Authority shall highlight the impact on borrowers. CSN will report the mission by 15 April 2022 at the latest, and the proposal will then be prepared within the Government Office. As far as the consequences for borrowers are concerned, I have taken the initiative in the past that the Government Office, with the help of CSN, has produced initial data. They show that the change for the borrower will be small. For an average borrower who studied at post-secondary level, the change would mean an increased cost equivalent to approximately SEK 40 per month when the student loan is repaid. For an average borrower who has studied on a longer course over five years, the change would mean an increased cost equivalent to approximately SEK 70 per month when the student loan is paid back. For the vast majority of students with student funds, the repayment of the loans starts when the studies are completed. The proposed change therefore means that the individual's finances are normally not affected during the study period. For those with payment difficulties, there are generous security rules where in some cases it is possible to have their annual amount reduced. Finally, I would like to point out that Swedish student support will continue to be one of the world's most comprehensive and generous student support systems. Students today will very likely also have to build on their skills to change careers. The new public unemployment benefit announced gives people with work experience a chance to change during their working life. This increases the security of the individual worker and increases the adaptability of companies and employees in a rapidly changing labour market.
i-0cbfa15924033340-412	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. During the pandemic, it became clearer than ever how important it is for everyone to have the opportunity and access to education, Madam President – and that the thresholds are not high, but rather the opposite. Record numbers applied to higher education institutions and universities, polytechnics and folk high schools during this period. At the same time, we can see that the parents' educational background, class membership and social conditions are a factor that is increasingly important for young people's ability to be admitted to and cope with higher education. Recently, the Government presented a proposal for a new conversion study support, which the Government raised. Conversion support should make it easier for people with work experience to further train or study a whole new education to strengthen their position in the labour market. That's a very good idea; the Left Party thinks it is. At the same time, however, it is proposed that the reform should be financed by an extreme increase in the interest rate on CSN debts – from the current 0.05% to between 0.5 and 0.6%. This has met with great protests. There are very few people who have spoken out in favour of the reform proposed by the government. Tens of thousands of people are currently with Kronofogden because of debts due to problems in repaying student debts. The number of debtors has increased over the years, and reminder fees have also been increased for those who have not been able to pay their fees. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why the government in this situation chooses to raise the interest rate so much – it is shocked to raise it – and thus debt additional people, which among other things leads to raising the thresholds to higher education. With this, the government also chooses to set young people's opportunities for education against older people's opportunities to change in the middle of life. That is something we strongly oppose on the Left side. That is why I asked the Government a few questions, and I do not think they have been answered. The first question was whether the Government has taken any initiatives to examine the negative effects of the Government's proposals. The second question was the reasons on which the decision is based, and that is really the question on which I get the most stuck in the interpellation response. What are the reasons for the decision? If we now have a good system where it is basically zero interest– we have one of the world's most generous student support systems, as the Government itself mentions – it cannot be that we are going to worsen it in order to finance another reform. This is quite incomprehensible, and there are very few student organisations and other organisations involved in this that understand why the government cannot finance this through the existing budget. There comes the argument that the budget and state finances are not endless. Nobody claims to be endless, but if you do not have enough in the budget to be able to invest in a conversion study grant, perhaps you should ensure that this revenue is generated in a different way than by debting thousands more students.
i-0cbfa15924033340-419	Madam President, I would like The announced increase in interest rates runs counter to the ambition to reduce the unfair recruitment to Swedish universities. Sweden's generous study funding, with a grant part and a loan part with a low interest rate, has been and is an important part for the children of the working class to study further. In CSN's study on whether students should have studied without student funds, there were as many as 66 percent of the students with low-skilled parents and 44 percent of those with highly educated parents who probably would not have studied without student funds. Generous means of study are thus important for not only children of educated parents to be able to continue their studies. There are also studies that show that students are more likely to take out loans the higher education their parents have. CSN's 2020 statistics show that among those whose parents were pre-secondaryly educated, 46 per cent studied without student funds at universities and higher education institutions. For parents with upper secondary education, the share was 29 per cent and for those with upper secondary education the share was 24 per cent. Other studies from 2020 show that children of low-skilled and professional pupils in upper secondary school have a much more negative attitude towards loans. The loan version can therefore be assumed to contribute to the social mismatch. It is already common for students with short-educated parents to finance their studies through work. It is also that group that is less able to pass their studies. Work often has a negative impact on studies. The study aid system should make it easier for the children of the working class to study further, but now the government is choosing to make this more difficult. In its reply to Daniel Riazat, the Government said that the change in how the interest rate on student loans is assessed has a marginal effect on recruitment, without mentioning who it is that will refrain from borrowing. The marginal effect is likely to consist of children from unpaved homes who will refrain from studies of anxiety about falling into debt. When the government announced almost a year ago that the interest rate for 2021 would be 0.05 percent, Minister Matilda Ernkrans said in his press release: A year ago, a low interest rate meant that the student aid system was becoming more attractive, but today it has a marginal effect to raise interest rates. It is a quick glimmer of opinion by the Government. The interest rate on the student loan also follows the overall trend in interest rates, as it is based on the average borrowing cost of the state over the past three calendar years. An increase in the cost of government borrowing means a higher student loan rate. At a time when social disparate recruitment to the university is increasing, we should focus our policy on reducing unfair recruitment rather than increasing it further by making decisions that cause those who are reluctant to go into debt to refrain from borrowing during their studies. This could lead to an even greater misrecruitment. What is the marginal effect that the Government is counting on, and has the government analysed the effect on the misrecruitment?
i-0cbfa15924033340-428	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Daniel Riazat of the Left Party for raising a very important question on which I would otherwise have intervened. On the other hand, we may have a slightly different idea of how the conversion study grant can be financed. As the name suggests, the conversion study grant aims to give people the opportunity to change later in life and either re-train or re-train. The proposal itself is a good one, and I think it will win the approval of most parties. On the other hand, the proposal, which has already been discussed, raises the interest rate from 0.05% to between 0.5 and 0.6%. It is therefore more than a tenfold that is proposed. Here, Madam President, I want to be very clear about communicating that the Swedish Democrats are saying no to such an increase. In January 2021, I asked the Government about the SEK 395 million paid out in student loans to students who are at risk of leaving the country or going underground. The Swedish Radio Alert Report stated that the prospects for Swedish taxpayers to get their money back in that situation are considered to be very bad. In May, I again put the question to the Government because, in my opinion, I had not received a satisfactory answer. The sum had then increased to 490 million. Thus, it would have increased by 95 million in about three months, or about $5,000 a day if it were taken out over this period. In June, therefore, I had to ask the Council of State for the third time – this time via an interpellation – how she intends to ensure the reimbursement. Nor was I then given a more satisfactory answer than the Government's monitoring of the matter. Since last summer this sum has probably increased further. Starting from the rate of 700 000 SEK per day, we are now somewhere around 600 million SEK in the last row. It is therefore clear that the government does not have a financial plan for how this reform can be implemented without affecting decent students. Why does the Government not act to ensure that these funds, in total over half a billion SEK, are repaid to the Swedish people and thus can finance the conversion study grant instead of raising interest rates for those who remain in the country and actually make their payments?
i-0cbfa15924033340-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate on this subject. I have commented on the Government's proposals both at press conferences and in the media, but it is a good thing that there is also a debate on this in Parliament. I think it is important, because I think there are some upper words in the discussion on this. I am concerned that it contributes to increased concern about this, and I find that unfortunate. I myself come from a workers' home. I was the first in my family to have the opportunity to study at higher education, so I know the importance of the Swedish education system, together with our low-interest study aid system. This makes it possible today for nearly 400 000 people to study at higher education in Sweden. More people are studying with student aid – I think it is almost 560 000 people. For 2022, we plan to jointly spend about SEK 16 billion on student grants, SEK 78 billion on education at our universities and higher education institutions, as well as research and SEK 5.4 billion on adult education. I would argue that it is the party I represent myself, the Social Democrats, that has been at the forefront of the reforms that give everyone, regardless of their background, the opportunity to study further. It is our priority to greatly expand adult education and higher education, both in terms of the number of places of study and in terms of the number of higher education institutions, and to extend the study grant. This has greatly contributed to broadening recruitment to adult education and higher education, thus allowing ambition, talent and talent to govern – not just people's background. We are now moving forward with a historically large study aid reform relating to the labour market and the study aid system. The government believes that it was reasonable to review the entire study funding system. I would like to say once again that the change we are talking about here is a change from 0.05% to 0.5%. It is therefore a change of 0.45 percentage points, nothing else. What you have to pay is half a percent – 40 kroner or a little more. Half a percent is what you should pay for loans through which you have received education without any fees, living expenses during education paid and a study grant during education. Half a percent interest on the student loan is what the proposal is about. It is about half a percent interest on own loans that have given the person a job, a good income and security. With regard to the consequences for borrowers, I, together with the Government Office and with the help of CSN, have taken the initiative to develop initial tasks. The assignment is now with CSN to return to what this interest rate model should look like. The initial data show that the change for the individual borrower will be small. The ambition is, of course, that the borrowers' increased cost of the loan can in some cases be collected only through an extended repayment period and not affect the monthly cost. The government is working to broaden recruitment. We have carried out an increase of SEK 300 in the grant part. Through the Knowledgelift, we have added 160 000 new training places in Komvux, University of Applied Sciences, Folkhögskola, universities and higher education institutions. We are now putting in the budget proposals for reinforcements for those with disabilities and how they can gain better access to studies. We have permanent support for the Student Health Service. We have invested in improving the quality of distance education, not least for students who work at a distance. This is a government that stands for higher education and a strong and generous study aid system.
i-0cbfa15924033340-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. At one time social democrat leaders in this House were talking about how to ensure that more people could benefit from studies on equal terms through low interest rates, simply by having a study system that works for everyone. What the Government and the Government are trying to do here and now is to reduce the effects of what this will mean. Then nothing has been learned from the effects that have already been achieved, for example, by raising reminder fees. It has not been learned what it means that today we live in a society where the gaps are increasing and where people can actually not afford even the extra 50 crowns that the Government uses as an argument that this would not have any effect. Then the Government also forgets to mention that this is not something that you pay off in five months. This is something that you pay off over decades, which makes the debts very high and significantly higher than today. Nor have I heard the Government respond to what it intends to do to reduce the number of students in debt. It is said that there are opportunities for reduction and that the benefit part of the study aid has been increased. It should also be added that the Left Party's requirement for the budget to go through 2018 was, among other things, that the study funding should be increased by SEK 300. It was not something that came from the government. But we do not want to answer the question that we already have tens of thousands of students and young people who have completed their studies, who are in debt and who cannot pay off their debts and end up with the bailiff. Is the new Social Democratic policy to go from wanting to make education available to everyone to stand and re-raise from 0.05% to 0.5% and somehow try to paint the image that it would not have an effect? In that case, it would in itself be quite speaking for the development of the government party. As I mentioned in my last speech, today other countries, such as the United States, are looking at Sweden. It boasts that the system that Sweden has is a system for the future even there. We have organizations around the world that talk about no students being in debt and that you should write off the debts. In that situation, a Social Democratic government, which speaks warmly of the desire to make education available to the children of the working class, chooses that more should be indebted and that fewer should dare to take the chance to educate themselves. Why? Because you want to finance another reform that is good but which you do not have in your regular budget. I mean, I'm not seriously acting on this from the government. The Government may have developed its answers here from the speaker's seat. But the fact is that they do not solve the acute problem, which is that more people will be in debt. Does the Government have an answer to how it intends to do so?
i-0cbfa15924033340-452	Madam President, I would like It is positive that the government has put forward the same proposal that the Left Party has long been pursuing, for example on support for people with disabilities that the Government has now mentioned. However, as far as study funds and student loans are concerned, I note that the Government did not actually answer my question about how the effects will be on those who hesitate to go into debt. Will they be allowed to continue working alongside? And how do you work for the student loan to recruit more from the working class to higher education? I remember myself working at CSN and just working on payback issues. It was a few years ago now, but it was during a period when the interest rate was very high. The very high interest rate for very many years also raised the interest rate on student loans. Many who called CSN for advice, for a deferral and so on had ended up in the situation that their debts only increased and increased. Moreover, for many with large debts, the high interest rate meant that what they paid during the year did not even cover the increase in interest rates. By the end of the year, their debt had increased, even though they paid the fee they were supposed to pay. Now we have a low interest rate and are not in that position. However, as the system is structured, it means that if and when interest rates rise, the interest rate on the student loan is increased, and then it is added at 0.45%. I believe that the government must look to the future. Not only can we start from the current situation, but we must look to the future and see the consequences.
i-0cbfa15924033340-455	Madam President, I would like I am sorry to say that this time too, the fourth attempt in the order, I do not really get a proper answer as to how the Government intends to act to ensure repayment, although I believe that the Government thinks she has given me an answer. In my view, a reasonable answer might have been: yes, of course, these funds should be repaid. I have instructed the responsible authority to take the measures x, y and z, and of course no additional funds will be paid out until this is fixed. But no, instead of remedying the shortcomings of their policies, the interest rate for well-behaved students is raised. I intend to give the Government another tip on where funds can be collected so that the interest rate does not actually need to be increased, and I am talking about the start-up grant. The start-up grant is a form of grant that means that newly arrived individuals do not have to take out student loans and receive grants instead. The aid therefore constitutes an unequal distortion in the funding of studies. 6,300 people received study start-up support in 2019. Seventy per cent of them were students with foreign citizenship. According to an overall assessment, approximately half of them had studied even if they had not received study start-up support. For 2022, the government proposes 400 000 SEK for study start-up support, a reform that we in the Swedish Democrats believe should be phased out as soon as possible. We believe that not a single crown should be invested in policies that lead to distortion, create inequality or try to trixate with statistics. As I said, Sweden already has perhaps the world's most generous system, and we should not bribe people for them to start studying. Here you go, Prime Minister. These are two proposals that give the government about 1 billion more in the wallet and thus mean that the conversion study support can be implemented without the interest rate for CSN loans needing to be raised.
i-0cbfa15924033340-463	Madam President, I would like The last question from the Swedish Democrats should really go to the Left Party, because you agree that you want a conversion study support. You also agree that you want to reject the proposal put forward by the government to finance the first step. Then the question is not to the government, but rather to the Left Party if you want to use this alternative funding. I feel quite confident that this is not the policy of the Left Party, but the Left Party will have to respond to that. I think it is important that in this debate, as in other debates, we say as it is. The change that we are proposing from the government is that you pay half a percent interest on the student loans that you have already taken when you pay them back. The half per cent we spend on the change in interest subsidies strengthens the public purse by a billion, which we choose to put on a first step in the conversion study support. We should remember that when the conversion study aid is fully built it will cost up to 9 billion, so we will really have to make an effort forward in time and use the money wisely and well to continue to finance the conversion study aid. This first step is made possible by making a change in the interest rate model, and it is about half a percent interest to be paid on the student loans that have already been taken. There is no more debt, but the debts you have will have to pay half a percent interest on. For those students who are unable to repay their debts because of their poor finances, there are security rules, and they are also used in these cases. It's important to remember. With regard to the increase in the grant part of the study aid, it was good that the Left Party and the government could meet in raising it by SEK 300. But it is also an established social democratic policy. As late as at our congress this weekend, the Social Democratic Party took a stand and said that it should be a conversion study support but also an increase in the contribution part in the future. We are now presenting a historically large study aid reform with the conversion study support for already professionals, and we thought that we should also review the entire study grant and how we handle a change in interest rates. It is also about the provisions of the Budget Act on government lending that the Riksdag has decided on. It states that an interest rate equal to the State's expected cost of the loan, including borrowing costs and expected losses, should be charged. The interest rate on the student loan is currently subsidised because the State does not charge for the expected loss associated with the credit risk of the loans but only for the cost of borrowing. A changed interest rate model also means that the handling of student loans is more consistent with the Budget Act the Swedish Parliament has decided on.
i-0cbfa15924033340-472	Madam President, I would like We may be several parties opposed to this way of dealing with the conversion aid, but the Left Party does not do so for racist reasons. We are therefore not in agreement with the Swedish Democrats on the issue mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair. I would like to point this out. The increase in the contribution component, as the Government has just mentioned, the Social Democrats may be pushing the paper but have opposed it in negotiations. The Left Party had to push into the last to get it through. We wanted a higher increase, but I'm still glad you finally agreed to the 300 kroner. I am a little concerned when the Government says that this is more compatible with the Budget Act and the State's borrowing rules. Does this mean that the government has broken the law and the rules over all the years? If so, it would be really troubling. Of course, that is not the case. Of course, the parliament and the government should be able to subsidise. That's the purpose. We're paying for more people to study. We live in a society where more and more people need access to higher education, and so we need to create a world-class system. We do today, so why make it worse? When other countries that do not have as good systems look at Sweden and say that they want our system, then we say that we do not want it anymore but make it worse and tell them that it is about small sums. I mean, this is a blow to all those who want to study and study. This shock increase must be stopped, and the student organisations agree with us here. I hope the government changes its mind.
i-0cbfa15924033340-477	Madam President, I would like Today's interest rate is 0.05%, as I have previously stated, which in principle is zero interest rate. The fact that the proposed increase in interest rates to half a percent can be seen as dramatic is, of course, due to the fact that the basic interest rate is so low. However, it is important that we in the Swedish Parliament try to stick to the proposal that is on the table, and, once again, with this change in interest rates, you will pay half a percent interest. It is still a very low interest rate and significantly lower than other interest rates. Thanks to monthly study grants, comprehensive safety rules and continued low interest rates, Sweden will continue to have one of the world's most generous study funding systems – which we are now also strengthening with a new conversion study grant. I am proud of the public transition study support that we have announced and which gives people with work experience a chance to change during their professional lives. A floorer should be able to switch to an electrician with 80 percent of his salary as well as a nurse's assistant and a machine operator to a professional teacher. This is a fantastic reform, not least when we are entering a new green industrial wave and also want to continue to strengthen welfare. The state's resources are not infinite, but I am convinced that the new conversion study aid is absolutely necessary. It will increase the security of the individual worker and increase the adaptability. The Parliament can take a historic first step in this study support reform for professionals through the proposal that is on the table, and I hope that Parliament will do so.
