i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-4	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me what concrete measures I will take, in addition to the proposals presented in 2020, to equip Customs and Border Protection in the coming years and whether I intend to strengthen Customs with considerably more staff to ensure that control is strengthened at our borders to stop thefts and serious smuggling. Foreign crime networks should notice that Sweden does not accept that they come here to commit crimes. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard to increase the work towards the exit of stolen goods. The mission has, among other things, resulted in joint releases, a much more coordinated and increased exchange of intelligence, joint operational teams at border crossings, increased crime prevention work, increased cooperation with other relevant authorities and concrete results such as interventions, criminal reports, seizures and expulsion of criminal persons without the right to reside in Sweden. The Mission Authorities have indicated that they will further develop cooperation. The government has recently made proposals that will further strengthen Customs' ability in law enforcement activities. Since 1 November, the Finnish Customs has been able to investigate offences involving possession or use of narcotics, possession of doping substances and possession of dangerous goods, and since 1 December, increased penalties have been imposed for arms smuggling. This means that the Swedish Customs will be able to use more coercive measures in the field of arms smuggling. On 12 November, the Government also decided on a bill in which the Swedish Customs Agency is proposed to have increased opportunities to place postal barriers in the mail and courier flows. The proposal extends the possibility for the Finnish Customs to use postal barriers from previously only to include firearms, explosives and ammunition. In October, the Ministry of Finance also sent out a memorandum for a referral proposing that the Swedish Customs Agency should have increased opportunities to intervene in cases of suspicion of trafficking, money laundering or the export of stolen goods. In recent years, the Finnish Customs has received large increases in appropriations, both durable funds and one-off reinforcements. In 2018, the Government gave the Finnish Customs SEK 115 million permanently to strengthen the presence at the border, the largest reinforcement of the Swedish Customs Agency in ten years. In addition, Customs received a one-time reinforcement of SEK 72 million for the purchase of technical equipment and for increased controls in the mail flow. In 2019, the grant was increased permanently by SEK 90 million to be used, for example, to strengthen border protection and hire more customs officials. In 2020, Tullverket received a further sustained increase of SEK 110 million and also a one-off increase of SEK 10 million to increase its presence at the border, and in 2021 the grant will be increased permanently by SEK 127 million. Overall, the measures and initiatives taken by the Government have improved the Swedish Customs' ability to act at the borders.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-9	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by wishing the Minister of Finance a good continuation of the new year and thank him for his reply. The Minister for Finance answers that she intends to strengthen the Customs Agency with more staff – so far well. The question then remains whether staff will also be given greater powers to intervene. It is not enough to be many more if you are not allowed to do something. What has been the big problem for customs for many years is that they have only had to stand and watch, among other things in the ports, when they have come out with vans full of stolen goods. I asked Morgan Johansson, Minister of Justice, in 2019. He replied that the export of stolen goods in ports was not a major problem. During the autumn I asked the question Mikael Damberg, the Minister for the Interior. He took the matter very seriously and told the House that a bill was coming, a bill that we now see coming from the government. It feels like the government has turned the issue over the years. It was previously common knowledge that it was very poor control at our borders. For example, you see at Arlanda, when you come home, at best someone tollier but very rarely any border police. It's very open. Just go right through it. It is not, as when you come to other countries, that you get to show passports and so on. It is important to keep track of people at the borders. Not everyone is an EU citizen. Those who come by car to Sweden via ferry or Öresundsbron usually take the fever now in pandemic times. At the same time, they can have 40 kilos of cocaine hidden in the car without anyone even controlling the vehicles. That is the reality of the day. These are basically swing doors at our borders at the moment. This has created that we do not know who is coming to and who is in the country. Therefore, stronger border protection and biometric control at our borders should be introduced to ensure which individuals are in the country. Madam President, I would like To sum up, we note that border protection is under criticism and that there has been a sense of ease with the government over time. Welcome to the ATM country of Sweden! Here everyone is welcome to day one go and charge contributions of all kinds without compensation. Strategic intelligence work must also be strengthened. Customs must be allowed to develop cooperation with other countries, including non-EU countries. We have now heard the Minister for Finance say on a number of occasions in pandemic times that the state needs to be strengthened. Why do the Government and the Government want a stronger state but not stronger control at our borders? I think that question is justified. Today, international leagues operate in Sweden. They steal boat engines, finer cars, and more, and they break into villas as well as vacation homes. This is well organized by the leagues.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-19	Madam President, I would like I was asked why I do not want stronger controls at our borders now that I want a stronger state, but the question is completely wrong. I've worked hard to make sure we have stronger control at our borders. That's why we've given the biggest addition to Customs in over ten years. That's more than the Alliance government did in its day. In addition, we have made very extensive contributions to the police. We are now also making an historic expansion of the police, because the police have a very important role here. As far as theft leagues are concerned, we have just sent out a memorandum for a referral to increase customs powers. It is not that customs are watching today, but they call the police if they suspect stolen goods, and then the police will come. We now have a memorandum for a referral to see if we will further strengthen Customs' possibilities. But I think it's best if the goods are not stolen at all. It is therefore important that the police, who are supposed to curb crime, can prevent the crimes from being committed, but if they are committed, they will catch the criminals long before they reach Sweden's borders. That is precisely why I have worked hard during my years as Minister of Finance to make extensive efforts on customs and police so that we can keep order at the border and keep track of our belongings and so that the police can catch the criminals.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-22	Madam President, I would like In my home district in Roslagen, the leagues often come from the other side of the Baltic Sea, from the Baltic countries in plain text, and raid sports and residential areas. They also steal a lot of boat engines on laps, which in autumn and winter are relatively unmanned. With cutting burners, they cut away the boat engines, and the whole aft mirrors are gone. They load the stolen goods in vans and then go home. On occasion they have been discovered on the ferry home. Staff have then stopped the ferry in the middle of the line and called for the police who came and arrested the thieves. However, it is rare. These gangs operate freely today and despite the strong suspicion that they have stolen goods in their vans can go home without any problems because there is virtually zero check at the ports. That is why we very much welcome the new law. My suggestion is that customs be given the authority to open and inventory all vans, every single one of them. In addition to boat engines, there may be other and bigger things in them, such as nice sports cars and the like. We must put an end to this, and make the international leagues understand that it is not possible to wreak havoc in Sweden. We must have much better cooperation between border police and customs. As I understand it, the Tax Committee will consider the new bill on Thursday. But why has the government not listened to us Moderates before? We have been arguing about this for years and years on, but everything has been rejected in this Chamber. We are disappointed, for this should have been taken seriously long before. These thefts have been going on for a long time now, for at least 10 to 15 years. Customs resources need to be strengthened, both in person and with greater powers. It will be interesting to see what powers come. Will Customs have police stationed? Or should they call the police when they've opened a car and found stolen goods? It will be interesting to see the application and how it will work. Australia is culturally similar to Sweden but has extreme control at its borders. The Australia Border Guards programme shows how all goods entering the country are X-rayed and also baggage at airports. In this way, they stop a lot of drug smuggling and the like. Perhaps we should try this in Sweden. Control at our borders is limited. At Arlanda, for example, few people are stopped for control. This means that, among other things, drugs and illegal weapons flow freely into Sweden.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-31	Madam President, I would like I share Kjell Jansson's view that theft leagues have been a problem for some 10 to 15 years. The question then arises as to why the Alliance Government did no more about this. Why did they hand over a customs service with far too little resources to the Social Democratic-led government? At the same time, we took over large deficits in public finances, so the first few years it was difficult to strengthen the Customs Agency. But as soon as we got state finances in order and had the resources to start building and strengthening society and thus increase security, the Customs Agency, together with the police, was a priority area for the government. I find it difficult to understand the Moderate's obsession with stopping the stolen goods at the border, because it is better to stop the thieves before they take the goods. That's why we started a major expansion of the police. But because of the alliance government's dismantling of police training, there were not many police officers to hire. That is why we have more than doubled the number of training places so that we can hire more police officers and stop the theft leagues before they steal the goods. Kjell Jansson points out how it looks at Arlanda. But Customs is working a lot of intelligence-based. They try to keep track of which planes and individuals to go on, instead of looking for a needle in a haystack. Customs has developed this method and considers that it is the most effective way to stop the illegal introduction of drugs, for example.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-35	Madam President, I would like Let us start with Sweden's economy. When the bourgeois government ended in 2014, the economy was very good. The Minister of Finance may remember that we experienced a difficult financial crisis in 2008. But former Minister of Finance Anders Borg handled it exemplaryly, yes, so well that the whole of Europe looked at what he did and gave him a lot of awards. So the economy was not as bad as the Finance Minister claims. Even then, we had public debt and amortised. However, during the financial crisis, it was right to borrow money to save the welfare sector – as now during the pandemic when providing support to municipalities and regions. Of course, it's good to take the thieves before they get to the border. But there aren't enough cops around to do this. It is quite unreasonable for them to be out in every bush in free-time residences and residential areas. It is a wishful thinking that is disproportionate to reality. For many years customs, export and import have been lighthearted. That is why I welcome all the reinforcements that are being made, but it is too late and too little.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-38	Madam President, I would like I share the view that it would have been much better if we had worked more actively against the theft leagues already during the alliance years. But now the government is making many measures to change legislation, strengthen the police and give customs additional powers and resources. Kjell Jansson says the police shouldn't be out in every bush. I don't mean that either, but with more cops, more people can work intelligence-based, which is the most effective way to curb crime. So to public finances. I have not criticised what the Alliance Government did during the financial crisis itself. However, in 2013 – 2014, public finances were lost, and when they were handed over, the structural deficit in public finances was significantly greater than in the financial crisis itself. I have criticised and found this problematic because it meant that, for the third time out of three possible countries, a Social Democratic Minister of Finance had to start by restoring order and order in public finances after a government with Moderates. I did, and after that, we were able to free up resources to invest in customs and police.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-42	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me if I can explain how many more jobs the tax policy proposals in the budget contribute to. He has also asked me why I have chosen to implement tax reductions which, according to him, have no or marginal employment effects rather than tax reductions which have a clear positive impact on employment, such as job tax deductions. We are currently in a pandemic that has hit society very hard. We see a major decline in economic activity, and in order to get Sweden out of recession as quickly as possible, a balanced expansionary fiscal policy is needed. Research shows that the most effective ways of rapidly increasing growth and employment in a recession are through increased public consumption and investment, which is also a very large part of the 2021 budget. A smaller proportion consists of tax cuts for households, which are directed mainly at those with relatively low incomes. Targeting tax cuts on these households is a more effective fiscal stimulus and also has positive distribution effects. Overall, the actions in the 2021 budget are assessed to contribute to increasing employment in both the short and long term and to providing 75 000 more jobs. An additional job tax deduction, as proposed by the Moderates in their budget exercise, is an expensive reform that primarily supports those who still have a job to go to. The fact that only people in work benefit from the tax reduction not only means supporting those who have done relatively well through the crisis, but also that it is less effective from an incentive perspective.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-46	Madam President, I would like It has been a different crisis management in many ways. The normal thing when it comes to crisis management, although not everything is normal in crisis management, is that the government makes proposals and that the parliament then deals with them. The management has now been different in that Elisabeth Svantesson and the Finance Committee have had to go at the front, and then we have had a good cooperation with the Social Democrats. I am, of course, grateful for this and for the fact that the government has backed up and met many of the crisis proposals that we have put on the table. Magdalena Andersson is right that an expansive fiscal policy is needed to face crises, and both fiscal policy and monetary policy have been and continue to be expansive, with an increase in public debt, not only in Sweden but globally. It is in line with a balanced fiscal policy that this is the case. Of course, each incentive can be discussed separately. The interpellation raises more questions about the long-term impact of policy. In such polarised times as we live in, Madam President, it is good to emphasise that we actually agree on a great deal. I and the Minister of Finance agree that we should have a well-functioning welfare, a jointly funded health care and a jointly funded school, that we should try to ensure that we have classrooms where you make class trips and that all people should receive the care they need, regardless of the size of the wallet they have. Then, of course, we can discuss and have different opinions about who best delivers according to the ambitions, but we share these ambitions. However, there is one thing in which the Minister for Finance and I have very different views. It's about the value of working. Those who listen to the debate just heard the Finance Minister stress that it is an inefficient incentive policy to reward people who work and that this should not happen and that it is wrong to direct reliefs, incentives and driving forces to work. My view and that of the Moderates, Madam President, is quite the opposite: there is nothing more important to a society than people working. It is difficult to understand the Minister for Finance's criticism of the fact that it will pay more to work. Magdalena Andersson is clear that it is wrong to target tax cuts to those who go to work in the pandemic: carers, nurses, nurses, doctors, bus drivers and everyone else. I think this is a moral that is very difficult for the Swedish people to understand – that it absolutely must not pay off to work. The issue in the interpellation focuses on the employment effects. My assessment is that it is very important that those in charge of the country report what they consider to be the impact of the policy, because only then can citizens and, for that matter, research institutes and others review the policy. The Minister of Finance said in the speaker's chair that her budget creates 75 000 jobs. Okay, what part of the budget and which of the proposals? If you read the budget, that is not clear. It's plus and minus in a table, about – with all due respect – like when you learn to count in primary school. There is no qualified assessment by the Minister for Finance or the Ministry of Finance of the impact of the individual proposals and therefore it is not possible to evaluate them ex post. And, Madam President, my suspicion is that this is the point.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-53	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman wonders why I want to exclude those who have become unemployed in the crisis or long-term illness in covid from tax cuts. Because that's the other side of what he's saying. He wants tax cuts aimed only at those who still have a job to go to and who have not been hit by covid and become ill during the crisis. Niklas Wykman thinks I find it difficult to explain this to the Swedish people. No, I haven't. The question is how Niklas Wykman will explain why it is so important that the bakers in Älvsbyn and those who are now long-term ill in covid, as we have heard, should not take part in the crisis measures that we are now taking. Niklas Wykman is asking about the estimates in the budget in terms of employment effects. We have discussed this many times over the last six years. When I became Minister of Finance, I abolished the alliance government's way of accounting for each reform. As I have said many times in this speaker's chair, we removed it because such calculations are very uncertain, and some of them have also proved to be grossly wrong afterwards. This means that my assessment is that accounting at that level does not clarify but risks becoming more misleading, and that is why since I became Finance Minister we have instead presented summary assessments. 75 000 is the summary assessment based on all the measures we take in the budget, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. This is taken together, including the fact that it is an overall stimulus. With the size of the budget, there is an employment effect in this.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-55	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance is in the speaker's chair and says that you do not need driving forces to work or at least that it is wrong to strengthen the driving forces to work. The Minister for Finance says something strange about the fact that it would be reasonable to dismantle the work line, that it would pay more to live on subsidies and so on. She says that it would be difficult to explain this to people who currently need sickness benefit or cash, but it is not. Everyone understands that if there is to be any security on the day you need it, if there is to be any medical care on the day you need it and if there is to be a school for the children we have in society, people need to work. And it will pay off to work. The Minister of Finance is a frenetic opponent of lowering taxes for those who work. All other types of tax cuts go well, but not to those who work. It seems to be the most important priority for the Finance Minister in fiscal policy that it must not pay off working. The question to the Minister for Finance is: is there any contribution that the Minister of Finance does not want to raise if she gets the chance? What transfer or what contribution would the Minister of Finance not raise if she had the chance? What is the big problem with social democracy and has been it for quite a long time and has built up, among other things, a great alienation and a great segregation in Sweden, not least when many people have come here, is that one does not see, appreciate and understand the value of work, not only for public finances but also for people's health, well-being and perceived pride in accomplishing something in society. It is therefore not wrong to reduce the tax on labour, Magdalena Andersson, but it is the most fundamental conflict in Swedish politics. We want it to pay off to work. The Minister of Finance does not want to reduce taxes on labour and believes that benefit income should pay more relative labour income. That is not how a successful society can be built. Madam President, I would like This is probably also why Sweden entered this financial crisis with unemployment among the EU's highest. Magdalena Andersson had promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Instead, we received unemployment rates which were among the highest in the European Union, precisely because the Minister of Finance does not believe in a working line and that it must not pay off to work. Magdalena Andersson correctly describes that she abolished the accounting in the budget proposal for the impact of the reforms. Social democracy has such a history. In the past, ESO, for example, has been shut down, which would evaluate, review and come up with fresh new ideas in economic policy. Various ways have been tried to conceal the effects of economic policy. The Minister of Finance refers to the fact that it does not want to do this type of accounting, as it has been shown that they are sometimes wrong. Madam President, I would like That's the point, that is to say that you should account for what you do, why you do it and what you think it has for effects. And if it does not have these effects, one should be able to get criticism for it and be forced to back down and answer for it. It is the very idea – transparency, democracy, popular governance, transparency. That is exactly what the Minister for Finance just stood in the speaker's seat and said that she wants to avoid, namely that one should be able to examine whether the government's policy has the effect that the government itself believes. Now a figure is being pulled out – it could be 200 000 jobs or 25 000 jobs – but it cannot be verified afterwards, because nobody knows why the Finance Minister thinks these jobs are being created. That is why we are constantly looking for more transparency. Why is the Minister of Finance against it? It's not so bad to be wrong. We are not doing this to be right, we are doing it for Sweden.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-64	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely in favour of it always paying off to work. SNS, which is not directly a socialist think tank, examined just what it looks like in Sweden with driving forces to work and differences between benefit income and labour income. They concluded that there were strong driving forces for work. Niklas Wykman says that I do not want to lower taxes for those who work. It's completely wrong. After all, we have such proposals in the budget proposal that was put on Parliament's table. Therefore, the tax is reduced in connection with the green tax shift. The question is not whether I do not want to reduce taxes for those who work. We've done that. The question is why Niklas Wykman wants to exclude the bakers in Älvsbyn, the long-term ones in covid-19 or cancer. Why is it so important? Niklas Wykman says it's about driving forces. It may not be such an appreciated argument for the nurse who is now long-term ill in covid-19 that it is because of the lack of driving forces that she still has symptoms.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-68	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance himself makes clear the great and long-term line of conflict in economic policy. There is much that we agree on. We're going to have medical care for everyone and school for everyone. Of course, the exact design can be discussed. But what we do not agree on is that in Moderate Sweden it should always pay off to work. It is always better to work than to rely on different types of benefits and transfers, not only because it is better for the whole of society but because it is mainly good for you with a job with coworkers. The Minister of Finance wants to talk about those on sick leave. It goes without saying that there should be security for them. But that is not the main problem with the finance minister's subsidy policy. In Sweden there is a very large exclusion, largely consisting of people who have come to Sweden and never entered the labour market. It is also for these people that there are no strong driving forces to work. Study on this can be recited after study. If we are to tackle exclusion, with segregation, with integration problems and with recruitment to gangs and criminal activities, these people need to enter the labour market and be able to be in a context with others, so that we can dismantle and break the alienation that the Finance Minister has built up with his grant policy. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Minister for Finance does not want to answer why she does not want to present an assessment of her policy. I understand that the Minister of Finance may be in danger of being criticised afterwards. She herself has enjoyed criticizing the alliance government the times it misjudged. But it is at the heart of democracy and a transparent society that one should be able to criticise and that one should be able to withstand criticism.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-71	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman and I have had repeated discussions over the last six years on how to account for employment effects in the budget bill, and we have different views. There are good opportunities to review government policy. But to present figures in the budget proposal that I consider to be qualified guesses, I do not think, with my research background, is serious enough. Niklas Wykman is talking about his job tax deduction. It has been tried for many years under the alliance government. The idea is to lower taxes for me and other high-income earners, but also for others, and that this will bring new arrivals to work. It was not a brilliant result in this regard. It is not the case that many new arrivals have come to work because of the job tax deductions, but other measures are needed. It is about education and labour market policies. The question is really: why should the long-term ill in covid-19, the cancer sufferer, the unemployed baker in Älvsbyn – who is unemployed because the bakery burned down – or those who have become unemployed now during the Corona crisis be penalised financially by Moderate policies because new arrivals find it difficult to get to work? That is the question of the Moderates' economic policy.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-74	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me if I am prepared to refrain from going forward with the new tax on clothing and shoes given the amount of problems that referrals and experts establish that the tax brings. Removing dangerous chemicals from our everyday lives is a high priority for the government, both for health and for the environment. According to the January agreement, a strong green tax shift will be implemented with increased environmental taxes being exchanged for reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. There will also be a tax on dangerous chemicals in clothing and shoes. The government commissioned a special investigator to analyse and make suggestions on how a tax on harmful chemicals in clothing and shoes could be designed. The purpose of the tax was to reduce the presence or risk of exposure and the spread of hazardous substances from clothing and footwear in a cost-effective manner. The substances involved include certain carcinogens or allergens, certain substances that are very stable in the environment and certain substances that contribute to the development of antibiotic resistance. As I have said before, referrals are currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-79	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to wish Mrs President and the Minister for Finance a good continuation. I hope you've both had a much-needed rest. In the midst of this raging pandemic, the government intends to move forward with a tax on clothing and shoes, the so-called fashion tax. It is a tax that will hit hard both at work and at companies in an already very difficult position for trade and for the whole economy and will also impair the competitiveness of an entire fashion industry in Sweden. The proposal originates in paragraph 35 of the January Agreement, which includes the introduction of taxes on dangerous chemicals in clothing and footwear. These include, for example, carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction and allergenic substances. Madam President, I would like The ambition to reduce the presence of these substances in clothes and shoes is commendable, and I share the government's view that it is important to remove dangerous chemicals from our everyday lives. But, Madam President, according to the study, 84% of all clothes and shoes sold in Sweden do not contain any of the dangerous substances that the tax intends to reduce. Despite this, it is proposed that the importer or manufacturer should pay SEK 40 per kilogram of chemical tax on all clothes and shoes. Even eco-labelling products that ban these substances – Good Environmental Choices, Swan and EU Ecolabel, to name but a few – are included in the proposal and are to be taxed. Then the importer or the manufacturer should be able to recover the tax afterwards if the clothes lack the dangerous substances, but then only 95 %. The proposed chemical tax will therefore, albeit to varying degrees, become a tax on all clothes and shoes, whether or not they contain dangerous chemicals. There will be 5% excise duty on clothing and shoes, no matter how dangerous or non-toxic they are. Then I think like this: Is it not as if all beverages, from wine and spirits to milk and water, would be subject to alcohol tax – and then the bubble manufacturer or Arla would be able to recover the alcohol tax afterwards, but only 95%? That is why I wonder, Madam President, whether the Minister for Finance cannot agree that, despite the legitimate purpose, the proposed approach is taken from Absurdistan.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-83	Madam President, I would like Tax policy in the country must, of course, be conducted in a very serious way, because it determines how we will be able to finance our common welfare, our defence and our police. Many people would think that tax policy is too important to sit with clutter between parties, write January agreements with each other and land in a tax policy that simply does not measure up. We have seen how volatile tax policy has become, with very uncertain tax revenues. The Treasury Minister's plastic bag tax is one such example. According to the Minister for Finance, it would be possible to reduce the tax on labour, but that is not the case because it has been shown that the tax does not draw in the money that it was intended to do. The idea of the green tax shift means that you become dependent on tax revenue from things that you try to phase out of society, and it simply does not last. All people understand, after a little thought, that one cannot make the public sector dependent on tax revenues that should come from things that in the near future should preferably not be left behind. We are certainly right now to agree that clothing is something we should continue to use, so it certainly remains a relatively stable tax base. However, the environmental benefits of this must be questioned. Helena Bouveng was aware of this, but it is still interesting to get the Minister of Finance's perspective on the views of the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. As I understand it in these authorities, especially the Chemicals Inspectorate, the chemical tax is an aggravating factor in phasing out dangerous chemicals. Does the Minister of Finance see any difference between this tax and the tax on refrigerators, stoves, mobile phones, computers, game consoles and any other electronics that the Minister of Finance favors? It simply did not manage to introduce a tax on chemicals, but instead it became a tax on the consumption of all these commodities. This is something you can imagine appreciated by, for example, the Green Party and other parties who do not think that you should have economic growth and development and who generally think that society is better if as many ordinary people as possible can afford to buy as little as possible. However, it is not usually the policy of the Social Democrats; on the contrary, the policy of the Social Democrats tends to mean that all people in society should have a good chance of living a good life, consuming, having a good welfare and so on. Now they are in government with a party that has a different view of that, and I understand that it needs to have some room in fiscal policy. But what fundamental differences does the Minister of Finance see between the clothing tax and the chemical tax? It has already been established that the chemical tax does not have an environmental impact, but that it is a clean consumption tax on everything that is bought. It does not encourage people to buy more environmentally friendly products or anything, but it is the same tax on everything based on how many kilos something weighs. As a result, there is no environmental impact. It's the same with the clothing and shoe tax: they don't have an environmental impact, but it's simply a tax per kilo of stuff you buy – no matter what they contain. I wonder how the Minister for Finance sees this. Does the tax have an environmental impact, or does the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate have a point in that it has no environmental impact – that it is not possible to call this a green tax shift? Of course, you can talk about changing the tax base from work income or something else to clothing. If so, is it the best tax base the Minister of Finance can imagine, or does the Minister of Finance have any doubts that this is a good, balanced, secure and stable tax policy? Is there any seed of doubt in the Minister for Finance about this?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-91	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has established Swedish environmental policy, which contains 16 environmental quality objectives. That is the backbone of our environmental policy. One of the goals is a non-toxic environment, and it is against this background that the government has made proposals to reduce toxins in our environment in different ways. The goal of a non-toxic environment is that substances in the environment should not threaten human health or biodiversity, and to achieve this goal we need to do more on the political side. One of the opportunities the government has looked at is the clothing tax. The aim is therefore to reduce toxins in our environment. The tax has been investigated and been out on a consultation session, and we are currently in the Government Office and studying the referrals carefully, of course. What we will draw conclusions from it is too early to say; I will be able to tell you when we are finished. However, I would like to point out to Niklas Wykman that the chemical tax can therefore be reduced if it is not toxic in the goods you buy. It is therefore different tax depending on what the products contain.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-94	Madam President, I would like This is the timing, and it is not something that the current government can be said to be fully known for in these times. In the midst of the Corona crisis, we are presenting an investigation into a new tax on trade – an industry characterised by layoffs, notice and bankruptcies. It would have been stupid no matter when the investigation was presented, but now it's so stupid that I have no words. One such suggestion is to slap all Swedish traders. This is a tax that drives jobs out of the country and the fact that the investigation is now being presented is only a fact that is really bad timing. The quote comes from Mats Hedenström, Head of Enterprise Policy at the Swedish Commerce Federation. Madam President, I would like According to the study, approximately 700 jobs and 100 companies will be eliminated because of the tax. Nor is this chemical tax the first that the government wants to introduce – Niklas Wykman mentioned the famous tax in his speech – but there has actually been one for electronics since July 2017. According to an evaluation carried out by HUI Research, up to 1,400 jobs were lost in only one year. Speaking of the previous interpellation debate, when we were talking about the highest or lowest unemployment, it is perhaps no wonder if we are soon on the highest unemployment rate in Europe if we continue along this path. On 1 August 2019 the government chose to raise the tax further. According to a study by HUI Research, this would mean that up to 500 more people would lose their job. Don't we need more jobs – not less – in these times? In fact, no evaluation by the government has been made. Is not the least one could ask the government in any case to examine the consequences of the tax before choosing to increase the chemical tax on electronics and white goods and to carry out an impact assessment before the government proceeds with a similar tax on shoes and clothing? In the midst of a pandemic, how clever is it to even think about introducing a tax on clothing and footwear that risks both jobs and businesses and where socio-economic benefits and environmental benefits are not?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-100	Madam President, I would like I would like to add my voice to what Helena Bouveng has said. I think that the Minister for Finance should give the Swedish people an insight into her reasoning. We live in times of very rapid change. Many traders and small entrepreneurs are having a tough time in the competition with online commerce. Not only do they, but this has been speeded up by the pandemic that prevails. Although not all of us are as conservative as the Prime Minister when it comes to shopping online, we are certainly many who find it nice that there are still shops where you can feel the clothes you want to buy in advance, get some taste advice and so on. Is it not unfortunate timing, the Minister for Finance, to introduce taxes on clothes and shoes that further drive up costs and make it more difficult for companies to remain, not least outside the big cities? Is it not unfortunate timing with tax on take away coffee and take away food, which is also planned or which the government has even promised to introduce? Is this really the right time for this? All this has already been asked by Helena Bouveng, and I am sure that the Minister of Finance will now answer that question – anything else would be very unworthy of those who are now struggling and toiling. What I am asking also has to do with public finances and with the so-called green tax exchange. How does the Minister of Finance judge this to be the case? How solid is it to rely on the removal of taxes from secure tax bases – VAT, capital tax or whatever – and replace it with tax revenues from more volatile sources, such as things that are to be phased out completely from trade? Is it responsible to do this in the long term?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-104	Madam President, I would like There is perhaps a certain irony in the fact that a man who represents a party who with great enthusiasm reduced the tax by 140 billion – much of it unfunded – wonders whether the green tax exchange that we are now engaged in is responsible. The aim is, of course, to reduce taxes on, for example, labour income, as we are doing now, and to increase taxes on things that are environmentally dangerous. One of the aims of increasing environmental taxes is, of course, that people should use them more. There, the plastic bag tax has been very successful. The overall assessment we make at the Ministry of Finance is that public finances are sustainable in the long term even with the tax exchange that we are now implementing. We had much bigger problems with the deficits that we had after the Moderate tax sinker'stusm between 2006 and 2014. As far as the clothing tax is concerned, we are preparing this at the Ministry of Finance right now. I have no answer to give, but I will be able to give an answer when we are done with the preparation. Of course, we are currently analysing carefully the referrals that have been received. Right now the Moderates are saying that things are bad timing, but it's not that the Moderates had been for any of this otherwise either. On the contrary, the Moderates have a policy in which, time and again here in the Swedish parliament, they propose strong cuts in the environmental and climate policy that the government is pursuing – the last time they wanted to cut nearly 3 billion in this particular area in this year's budget. Unfortunately, however, the environmental and climate problems that we have are not taking a break because of the Corona crisis. What Sweden does not need is a strong reduction in ambition through a reduction in appropriations in these areas. On the other hand, we are going to conduct a balanced and long-term responsible policy, which is why we are currently analysing referrals.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-110	Madam President, I would like I think the difference between us and the Social Democrats is that we want to have a very good environment for the money and that we do not want to call it an environmental tax, but that it is actually useful. There, I think we differ quite a lot. The proposed tax has already met with very harsh criticism. As Niklas Wykman said, the criticism comes not only from the Swedish Chemicals Agency but also from the fashion industry and companies – I just received an email from Postnord – as well as from authorities such as the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency. Words such as distortion of competition are used. It is also said that this is not cost-effective, that it imposes a great administrative burden and that it does not mean any environmental benefit. As I stressed at the outset, Madam President, I share the view of the Minister for Finance on the importance of phasing out harmful chemicals. They do not have in Sweden to do, they do not have in Europe to do and they do not have on the surface of the earth to do. But if the government really wants to achieve environmental benefits, we need to bring other countries with us. Meeting a global problem with national taxation cannot be the way forward. I would like to say this to the Minister for Finance: let us work together to combat chemicals effectively in REACH and other EU regulations. I appreciate good cooperation on global taxation – why not do the same in this case? I call on the Minister for Finance: the chemicals tax must be thrown into the wastebasket for the sake of jobs, businesses and the environment. The chemical tax on clothing and shoes without dangerous chemicals belongs in Absurdistan.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-115	Madam President, I would like Here, as usual, we have heard moderate excuses for not enforcing environmental policy. That's bad timing! It's inefficient! For Moderates it is never the right time to change Sweden in a more sustainable direction. No, says the Moderates, we are not going to do anything here in Sweden. It will be done in other countries – internationally and in the EU. Let other countries do things; this is not the time for Sweden. But this is where the future lies – in the green and in the climate-smart. The business community has understood this and is now making major investments, not infrequently supported by the government's efforts, to re-set Sweden. Industry sees the green as the future. We have fantastic examples in Sweden, for example when it comes to what we do in the mining industry and when it comes to what we do in Hybrid with producing fossil-free steel. But the Moderates aren't there. They're not where the jobs of the future are. They say no, not now, that it is bad timing and that it is ineffective. They say: Let more be done in other countries! However, that is not the answer. We will of course be the world leader in climate change, because that is how we secure jobs and development in Sweden in the long term.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-120	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me when I intend to present in Parliament the new proposals to combat the problems of coordination numbers and whether I am prepared to review the possibility of recalling all coordination numbers as well as linking coordination numbers to biometric data. She also wonders whether I intend to take any concrete and decisive steps to ensure that the use of false identities and the creation of multiple identities lead to more tangible consequences than today. Coordination numbers play an important role in society as they meet the needs of public authorities for an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden. The function of the coordination numbers is also important for people who are staying in Sweden for a not very short time and who have a strong need to have a functioning identifier in order to manage their everyday lives. However, the coordination number system has shortcomings, and the Government and the Swedish Tax Agency have therefore taken a number of measures. The Swedish Tax Agency is continuously working with other authorities to ensure that coordination numbers are assigned in an effective and legally secure way. In addition, within the framework of a government commission, the Swedish Tax Agency has developed a service that recognises whether the same identity document is used on several occasions in cases concerning the allocation of coordination numbers. The service is used continuously in the Tax Agency's handling, and in addition to preventing misuse with identity documents, the data will eventually be used as an indicator to assess the extent of the problem. In order for our registers to contain accurate and up-to-date information, it is also necessary to tighten up the regulatory framework for coordination numbers. At the same time, given the need to avoid confusion and to retain historical information, it is important that changes are made in an orderly manner. The Ministry of Finance has therefore referred a memorandum with proposals aimed at tightening up the coordination number system. The proposals are currently being prepared in the Government Office and will be presented when they are ready. In addition, the Government has set up a government investigation to review the entire coordination number system. The mission of the investigation includes, among other things, proposing how the verification of a person's identity should be designed in order to make the allocation of the coordination number more secure. The assignment shall be presented by 1 April 2021. I intend to allow the investigation to complete its mission and await its report. However, we are not sitting still in the boat until then, but we have the memo that has been out for a referral that I mentioned and which we hope we can soon be in port with.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-127	Mrs. alman! This is an important issue for our country. Today, the state lacks control over how many people are in the country. 900 000 coordination numbers have been issued during the 20 years they have been in existence. Under the current rules, a coordination number is eternal, and persons who have been assigned a number cannot today be deregistered. For several years, the Swedish Tax Agency and the police have been alerting the systematic abuse of these numbers. Criminals and others want to obtain coordination numbers to exploit society and obtain false permits or ultimately improperly infiltrate our welfare systems and exploit them or just acquire a place in Swedish society that they are not really entitled to. When we live in a country where we no longer know who is who or where you can certify that you have multiple identities, it becomes difficult for the state to keep track of. It will then be difficult to keep track of who is responsible for different companies and grant payments. And although, as very often pointed out, coordination numbers do not immediately provide access to a lot of welfare benefits, it is a gateway to Swedish society that is often the first step if you are to cheat on benefits, be able to exploit the systems and hide justice with multiple and false identities. In the end, you get into the systems and you can commit welfare crimes and such things. Everything is connected in the criminal cycle, which unfortunately becomes easier to spin around in when the state lacks control to curb cheating and crime. And too often it starts with a coordination number. Madam President, I would like An administrator at the folk register tells about events when men – because it has been about men – want to change personal identity numbers because the number belongs to a time when there has been trouble and trouble. Now that the man is about to restart, he wants to request a new social security number. The conversations can be really threatening. I would like to give examples of how fraud can be done. If you have a coordination number, you can start a business. The manager brings countrymen to his company on the coordination number, and support from the Employment Service is paid out. When controlling the company, the people are not there, nor are they in Sweden. The Moderates have put forward proper proposals to tackle the problems. The Moderates want a personal cancellation to be required in order to obtain a coordination number and also to retain a coordination number. The Moderates want biometric d ata to be used, as with passports. For example, thumbprints work in all countries. The Moderates also want a genuine census and will add half a billion for this. We have done so in the budget for the year. Madam President, I would like I therefore ask the Minister for Finance: does she see the importance of getting to the coordination numbers for real and of the numbers in front being linked with biometric data such as a thumbprint? The Moderates suggest physical presence when issuing the coordination number. Is the Minister also prepared to review the possibility of including a photo on the holder? The third question is: does the Minister intend to take any concrete and decisive action so that the use of false identities leads to tangible consequences? The Moderates' proposal has been rejected by the government. No one has really understood why. Perhaps free years, building subsidies and plastic bag taxes have taken up too much of the minister's and government's time.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-141	Madam President, I would like I was going to anticipate the next intervention by the Minister for Finance, because it usually follows the same pattern that everything is the fault of the Alliance Government and that if the Social Democrats had only always had power in Sweden, there would have been no problems. But that is not really the case in reality. In this matter, it is probably particularly important that all of us politicians are a little humble. There may be no reason for anyone to throw the first stone. The problems piled up in Sweden quickly and in one, because the political system has to say, surprisingly quickly. Several governments could have done more. But that more has not been done before is never an excuse not to do anything now, and not to throw the stone is not the same as not to lay the first stone for a better building of society. There we are. The Moderates were very strong in the demands for more order and to sort out the coordination numbers in the Parliament's Tax Committee, and we took a parliamentary initiative for this. Only after that did the government choose to act. The day before our initiative was to be approved, I believe it was, the government finally launched an idea of its own on how to try and restore order and order to the coordination numbers. My question to the Minister for Finance is of the same nature as it was then. Why do you just jump halfway across this cliff? We have been very clear that all coordination numbers should be withdrawn and that those who want to retain their coordination number should verify it by showing up or by other means beyond reasonable doubt ensure their identity. This has been deleted by the government in its part of the proposal. Madam President, I would like I will not explain in detail to everyone who listens how the government's proposal is designed. But if you want to be kind to the government's proposal, you can say that in five years it solves the problems that have arisen. Our proposal solves the problems in one year, five times as quickly for those who want to go into the head count. Now that the proposals are going to begin to roll out, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether our original proposal would not be desirable: that all the coordination numbers be verified. Why is the Minister of Finance opposed to this, in favour of his own five-year model, where the numbers will gradually become correct? Does the Minister of Finance not consider that the situation in Sweden is still relatively acute when it comes to problems of order and to remedy them? We have quite a lot of such problems, not least in many social democratic display municipalities such as Malmö, Borlänge and Södertälje. There are serious problems with the fact that neither the state nor the municipality has any control. Social democrats often accuse us and sometimes mock us Moderates because we want order and control of support and such things. But in Borlänge, Malmö and such municipalities, which have had a more easy attitude to constantly paying support, even to people who do not exist in Sweden, they have had even more serious problems with this. Both the state and the municipality have retreated there. In well-managed moderate municipalities, such as Solna, where the municipality has been responsible, some form of control has been maintained, since the municipality has been in control when the state has backed down. But in the social democratic windows, such as Borlänge and Malmö, where people have not wanted control of the support, it has become even worse. The question to the Minister for Finance is: Should we not go to the Mothers' original proposals and verify all the numbers directly?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-150	Madam President, I would like As Sofia Westergren in her post mixed social security number and coordination number quite healthy, I think it is important to start by making it clear that there is a big difference between social security number and coordination number. Personal identity numbers are given to people who are registered in Sweden and who live here, while coordination numbers are given to people who authorities need to have an identifier for one reason or another, for example because they work in Sweden for a short time. But it may also be because they have a completely different contact with a Swedish authority without ever staying in, coming to or having any connection to Sweden. It is also important that the police can have an identifier of people who, for example, are suspected of a crime but do not live in Sweden or have a personal identity number. The authorities' need for an identifier is therefore the basis for having a coordination number. It is also important to point out that the coordination number itself does not give any rights whatsoever. You do not have the right to stay in Sweden because you have a coordination number. You do not have the right to receive any grants or other benefits in Sweden. Nor does it have the right to work in Sweden because it has a coordination number. It is important that authorities such as Försäkringskassan ensure that people who receive payments from our welfare systems are entitled to it and that a coordination number is not used. Of course, it is also important that all employers know that a coordination number does not give anyone the right to work in Sweden. It is important that we keep track of our records. The government has done several things to strengthen the coordination number system. Sofia Westergren asks what the government has done. We have, among other things, done much to enable the authorities to coordinate their work with the coordination numbers in a better way. The Swedish Tax Agency has trained and informed the other authorities about what applies. A specific computer application has also been developed to prevent false identities, i.e. the same identity document, from being used repeatedly. It's important. In addition, we have worked on both a more long-term and a more short-term track. The long-term track is the major investigation of both the population register and the coordination number, because we need better control of the population register and the coordination numbers. Incorrect census accounts can often be one reason for the wrong access to grants. The report will be presented in April this year. In addition, we have been working on a fast track. The memorandum that has been consulted is now being prepared in the Government Office, and we have come a long way in that preparation. It contains, inter alia, proposals for cancellation if there are specific reasons, address requirements for coordination numbers and personal cancellation requirements for the applicant for the coordination number himself. There will therefore be a requirement for personal cancellation if you want a coordination number yourself. However, it may be an authority that needs a coordination number on a person who absolutely does not want to have any contact with Sweden himself, for example if you are suspected of a crime. Then it is not possible to require personal cancellation. But it would be difficult for the police if they could not have an identifier. The proposal also includes the automatic cancellation of persons with old coordination numbers. This means that all coordination numbers issued before 2016 will be deleted by the end of 2021 unless there are specific reasons against it. Why don't we delete all the coordination numbers? This is because we consider it difficult for the authorities. It is the authorities that need the numbers to be able to work, and removing everyone could lead to chaos on our authorities. I have replied to Niklas Wykman several times before in Parliament's pulpit.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-159	Madam President, I would like I have good order of social security numbers and coordination numbers. The reason I mentioned it in my previous speech is that I think it will be confusing for those who switch to a personal identity number that they can no longer choose a new number, which they are used to with regard to coordination numbers. Madam President, I would like When I was Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board in Stenungsund there was a pensioner couple who lived a quiet life – let's call them Kalle and Asta. The first time they got mail for a name they couldn't pronounce, they thought the mail was wrong. They contacted the postman, Postnord and also the Swedish Tax Agency. The IRS told us that it was not possible to write off the new person from the address because the person was missing another address. For obvious reasons, the pensioner couple had no contact details for him. Another example of fiffles with addresses is an apartment where 100 people are registered. 80 of them are convicted, including a carnivore. Cold facts also showed in a program that 500 people were written at the same address. Already three years ago Anders Björkenheim, an expert on fraud prevention, personally warned Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson about the systematic cheating with temporary social security numbers, i.e. the coordination number. "It is under all criticism that nothing has happened" said Anders Björkenheim. Madam President, I would like Here's how it works: You can buy yourself an address; it's for sale for a few hundred bucks a month. Then the mail can be picked up weekly. This is usually done by people with coordination numbers. You can also only use one address, as happened with Kalles and Astas. Those who already live at the address do not need to know and do not accept that this is happening. The Swedish Tax Agency has paid attention to the phenomenon and has developed a service on its website where you can check who is written at an address. If someone does not belong in the household, there is a button on the website where you can register this. However, if no grants are linked to the case, it is low-priority and ends up at the bottom of the pile. An administrator at the agency wants a cloud service where these people can be overwritten immediately so that ordinary people will not be affected. The same administrator wonders why the service has been developed on the Swedish Tax Agency's website when it is not a priority to help ordinary people with the problem. Madam President, I would like I want to tell the Minister for Finance that the pensioner couple Kalle and Asta felt very bad during the time this was going on. They felt observed and wondered on a daily basis who the person was who sent their mail to them. What age did he have? Was he a criminal? Was he violent? What would happen? Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Finance, who has previously been Director-General of the Swedish Tax Agency and worked a lot on these issues, if she sees the need for, for example, a cloud service in order to be able to quickly write off people who do not belong at an address. An administrator at the Swedish Tax Agency's Population Accounts Department wishes that there had been a commission in the Government letter to the agency to check the authenticity of identity documents. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she sees a need for it and whether this mission can be given to the Authority.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-168	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance for a long time now. That's over six years, isn't it? As a result, she is responsible for the overall situation and gets increasingly difficult to blame on other parties and forces for what the situation is like in Sweden. I understood the Minister for Finance's annoyed, disproved or tired answer that she thought she had answered that question from Niklas Wykman before. Magdalena Andersson is welcome to call me an optimist, but I always think that people can get better and can come to new insights. I am therefore going to ask again: is not the Moderates' proposal that all the coordination numbers in Sweden should be verified in their place? We have largely lost control in our country. Borlänge, Malmö and Södertälje– yes, around the country and not least in social democratic shop window municipalities where control of the support has been non-existent there are very big problems with not knowing who is who and who lives where. This is not at all how Sweden was supposed to work. The Minister of Finance has already opened up for such controls. But why wait over five years? Why can't we get this control right now? The Minister of Finance says that it would cause chaos in the authorities, but that is just a pretext for doing nothing at all. Of course, the coordination numbers deemed necessary by the authorities should not be withdrawn. If the Swedish Tax Agency, the police or someone else says that a certain coordination number is needed, it should not be revoked. But why can we not recall the coordination numbers that the authorities judge are not needed and which we do not know who is behind it? Then we can make sure that those who want to keep these numbers need to verify them. We cannot use the fact that the authorities want to retain certain numbers as a pretext for doing nothing about the other perhaps 850 000 numbers.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-173	Madam President, I would like All coordination numbers will be checked. However, this will happen at a pace that we believe the authorities can cope with while they can fulfil their other important tasks. The police are here an important authority, and they have quite a lot to do. I would warn against believing that a review of the coordination numbers will solve the problems that we have with incorrect censuses. Persons with coordination numbers are by definition not registered in Sweden. Nor are there problems of overcrowding or mispayments from welfare systems being addressed. Many people with coordination numbers have no payments from these. A government investigation has been looking at mispayments. It estimates that undue payments linked to coordination numbers are of marginal importance. We should have the coordination numbers in order and it is totally unacceptable if people with coordination numbers are wrongly paid out by our welfare systems, but that is not what solves the problem of cheating and falsification in benefit systems. There we need other measures. An important measure is to have better control of population records. I really understand that for an elderly retired couple there is a great concern if an unknown person who does not live in the household has signed up there. This leads to a great deal of anxiety and can absorb a great deal of and worsen the fine years you can have as a pensioner. I, too, believe that errors in population records are a major problem. Therefore, we have taken steps to improve the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to work against errors in the population register. An important part of this has been to reintroduce the civil record crime that the Alliance government abolished. That would of course give the IRS new opportunities. It also makes it possible to get much higher up the piles on the desks of officials than when it was not even criminal to be wrongly registered. In addition, we have, on a number of occasions, contributed resources to the Swedish Tax Agency in order to be able to work with the population register, among other things. This is, for example, about 45 million specifically for the population register in 2020. For next year, there will be 43 million, and then there will be 20 million permanent. I therefore fully share the view that it is important that we have control in the population register. But again, it should not be confused with coordination numbers, because people who have coordination numbers are by definition not registered.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-180	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Magdalena for the answers. I never heard if she answered the question about cloud services so that we can get a quick solution for the pensioner couple. I would like an answer to that. Co-ordination numbers are often associated with so-called car goalkeepers. The coordination number itself has an important value, but it is misused in various ways, says Tobias Wijk at the Swedish Tax Agency. In total, there were over 36 000 vehicles registered on the coordination number, according to the police Linda H. Staaf. In 2018, the Swedish Transport Agency concluded that these 36,000 vehicles were registered on 700 coordination numbers. These are vehicles that are in all likelihood used by theft leagues for organised crime. It is striking that the government does not seem to give priority to these serious problems. Many of these cars leave Sweden. The Swedish Kronofogden in Malmö tells about a person with a coordination number who has debts of just over SEK 104 million. The City of Malmö had earlier problems with less than half of the parking tickets being paid. They have taken hold of the problems and now almost 90% are paid. Having said that, it is important to tackle the problem. Authorities can do that, but they need more tools. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance what reasons she believes there may be that three people have usurped 38 different identities.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-184	Madam President, I would like Thank you for highlighting an important issue here! It is important that we keep order in our registers and that we keep track of our coordination numbers and folk records. Having multiple and false identities is often part of the beginning of a criminal chain, which then commits a wide range of crimes, such as welfare, tax and other crimes. It is therefore important that we work hard to give our authorities the tools to act against this crime. We also need to allocate the necessary resources. Car targets are often part of a crime chain. The government has action here. I do not know whether they have already been taken or whether they are in the pipeline; that is not my responsibility. I know, however, that there has been an active effort to tackle the problem. There are also a lot of interesting local examples in Malmö and Skåne of how they have been able to work against car goalkeepers. If I had still been Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency, I would have thrown myself directly at the issue of cloud services. I believe, however, that this is more a matter for government management than for governance from the Ministry of Finance, but I will take it with me. What IT services an authority usually has is usually a matter for the authority and not for the government or parliament.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-187	Madam President, I would like Eric Westroth has asked me what environmental benefits I see with the waste incineration tax and what financial needs arise in the municipalities as a result of tax funds being sent from the municipalities to the state. Angelica Lundberg has asked me what kind of work is going on right now at the Government Office to address the problems that have existed since the introduction of the tax, in addition to the tax office's review. The tax on waste incineration applies from 1 April 2020. The aim of the tax is to achieve in the long term a more resource-efficient and non-toxic waste management, but also to meet the Swedish parliament's goal that Sweden should take the lead in climate and environmental matters and become a fossil-free country for example. The government already announced in the bill that it will evaluate the effects of the tax and analyse the need for change. The tax on waste incineration is generally not assessed as being passed on to waste reception fees. Thus, municipal waste management costs are not affected. On the other hand, a large part of the energy companies affected by the tax are municipally owned. The results of the companies thus affect the municipal revenues of the municipalities that own energy companies with waste incineration boilers. The proportion of the tax cost passed on to the price of district heating and the proportion of the costs incurred by the companies depends on local market conditions. At the time of the recent introduction of the tax, there is currently no information on how the tax was passed on or charged to companies' performance. A commission to the Swedish Tax Agency to evaluate the effects of the tax on waste incineration was submitted already on 19 December 2019, and the Swedish Tax Agency must report by 1 October 2021. How an analysis of the need for changes to the waste incineration tax is to be carried out is now being prepared within the Government Office. The analysis will focus on measures to adapt the tax so that it can more effectively achieve the objectives and improve the conditions for recycling.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-192	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by wishing the Minister for Finance a good continuation of the new year and thank him for his reply. Sweden already introduced a tax on waste incineration in 2006. Although it was different in design, it was barely introduced before an investigation was set up to analyse it. The investigation suggested that the tax should be abolished as it did not steer cost-effectively towards relevant policy objectives and had had a modest effect on recycling. Therefore, the tax was lost in 2010, just over four and a half years after its introduction. A new waste incineration tax was introduced on 1 April 2020, despite the objections of heavy consultation bodies. The main justification was that it was not considered that the tax steered towards the objective of increased recycling. Some of those who rejected the proposal were Waste Sweden, Energy Companies, Konjunkturinstitutet, the Swedish Competition Authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Energy Agency, Svenskt N äringsliv and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. T il and the Swedish Tax Agency rejected the proposal. The Swedish Democrats voted as the only party in Parliament against the introduction of the new waste incineration tax, as we also do not believe that the tax is moving towards the goal of less waste and more recycling. What was also lacking in the bill were figures on the environmental benefits that the tax would bring. The tax acts primarily as a fiscal tax on waste incineration with an unclear application for the industry. We think, of course, that it is a good thing that the Swedish Tax Agency has been given the task of evaluating the tax, but giving the task of an evaluation just over four months before the tax is introduced can be a sign that the issue is insufficiently prepared. The Swedish waste incineration plants are very efficient and technically well developed. As a result, other countries' waste can also be received to incinerate it. In 2017, about one third of the incinerated waste had been received from abroad. This proportion is also likely to increase, as Swedish consumers' waste sorting is becoming increasingly efficient. Now I do not think that the alternative to burning waste in Sweden would be similar to waste management in Indonesia, where we read that 30 to 60 tonnes of waste are being washed up every day on the beaches of Bali. On the other hand, they would have liked to have had their own waste incineration plant of Swedish dimensions. Then it would not have taken even a morning to burn up the waste that is now washed up on the beach every day. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister what is the most significant change in the new waste incineration tax compared to the old one, so that it would be more direct towards the objectives of less waste and a higher proportion of recycling.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-200	Madam President, I would like On 1 April 2020, the tax on waste incineration began to apply in Sweden. Given the design of this treasure, it seems mostly a bad April joke, but unfortunately it is not. The tax works as such that the waste that comes to a waste incineration plant is weighed and taxed at SEK 100 per tonne, which will increase to SEK 125 next year. The tax is then reduced for the tonnes of waste taken out of the plant. Even before the tax was introduced, there was strong criticism of it. The tax has no environmental impact, and the report produced by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in April shows that it does not affect greenhouse gas emissions. The Government also states in its own budget that the tax will not have a significant impact on greenhouse gas emissions, and the environmental reasons given by the government for introducing the tax are therefore not real. Apart from the fact that the tax has no positive effect on the environment or climate, there are many other problems with it. One problem is the ash generated by combustion. If the ash is placed on landfill within its own plant, and therefore is not removed, the waste incineration tax on this amount is not reduced. If you choose instead to transport the ashes out for landfill on another plant, which is definitely not better from an environmental point of view, the tax will be reduced. Furthermore, the ash is already taxed under the Waste Tax Act and is thus subject to double taxation. Furthermore, the tax has unreasonable consequences when it comes to waste water that is taken into account and used in the process. This is also taxed, although it largely leaves the plant in the form of harmless water vapour. The alternative, using clean water in the processes, would create a major environmental problem with waste water that cannot be handled in ordinary treatment plants and increase unnecessary use of clean water. There are also problems with waste that contains a lot of moisture. Wet waste weighs more. But even if the moisture itself will also leave the plant as a water vapor, the tax will be higher per tonne for wet waste. In addition, an ill-considered design of this tax helps waste companies to redirect their activities in order to avoid an excessive tax burden rather than focusing on environmental and resource efficiency. In its November report, the Energy Agency notes that cogeneration is very important, especially for the future extension of electrification, and that the problems of fossil waste cannot be addressed through measures in the energy sector. The Authority also proposes to carry out a review of the instruments affecting cogeneration and to change them if necessary. Even when the tax was introduced, it was found to be urgently needed to be evaluated, which in itself raises the real reason why such an ineffective tax with so many problems was introduced. In response to a written question, the Minister for Finance says that an analysis of how the need for changes in the regulatory framework is to be implemented is ongoing at the Government Office. The aim of the tax was to achieve more resource-efficient and non-toxic waste management and to contribute to increased recycling. None of this is achieved by the tax, of which the government, like the rest of us, should of course have had an insight at the time of its introduction. My very straight and simple question to the Minister is therefore: Why was this tax actually introduced?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-209	Madam President, I would like Why was this treasure actually introduced? There are several reasons. One is that it clearly indicates that the waste hierarchy should be followed and thus has an important control function as a control signal. We also aim to achieve net zero emissions in Sweden by 2045. If we are to do that, we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. The purpose of the tax is to contribute to reducing emissions in the long term. Unlike other fossil fuels, waste is entirely tax-free if you do not have this tax. That is why the tax has been introduced. We have a commission at the Swedish Tax Agency to look at the tax and evaluate its effects. We are currently looking in the Government Office at how we should work to see how we can improve the tax. There, several of the aspects raised by the interpellants will certainly be part of the Swedish Tax Agency's analysis or the analysis that will be done through the Government Office.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. With regard to the waste hierarchy referred to by the Minister for Finance, it is a question of trying to tackle the problems as far up the chain as possible. The waste incineration tax goes down at the bottom, last in the waste hierarchy, which makes it quite inefficient. We have had clear indications that it has not reduced the greenhouse gas effects, but it is tough as usual. Adding additional tax burdens to Sweden's waste incineration plants can be problematic in a longer perspective. My colleague mentioned the problem earlier, but I will bring it up again. Double taxation problems arise when non-burnt materials or ashes from incineration are deposited within the plant's area. It will be double-taxed, i.e. it will be both waste incineration tax and landfill tax. This has led to the transport of ash and non-burnt materials between different plants in order to reduce their tax, but with more transport and greater environmental burden as a result. The water in wet waste and dirty process water used to control the combustion and leaving the plant in the form of clean water vapour in the chimney is also subject to a waste incineration tax as well as soil used to reduce the slag in combustion. Furthermore, since taxation is based on the weight of the waste and that plastic in the waste weighs less and contains more energy than the biological material involved, the tax per unit of energy will be lower the more plastic contained in the waste. This should, in principle, counteract the aim of the tax to reduce the proportion of plastic combustion. The capacity of installations to compensate for increased taxes is limited to district heating customers and, where possible, with increased reception fees and increased waste rates for residents as a result. Electricity generation in waste plants is modest nationally, but it is still an important player for the energy system and the local balance of power. However, the electricity produced is traded on the Nordic electricity market, which means that no part of the tax can be paid on their electricity customers. The risk will then be that, in cases where the tax increase cannot be fully compensated for, the tax will burden producers' economic performance with a lower profitability. On 30 November, the Energy Agency published a report, a comprehensive assessment of the potential for heating and cooling, which warns that low profitability could lead to underinvestment in cogeneration. As a result, installations can only invest in hot water production, which is considerably cheaper and technically easier, which risks a fall away from an important electricity resource. In 2019 combined heat and power accounted for no less than 9 per cent of Swedish electricity production, which is not far from the share of wind power, which was about 12 per cent. In addition, please add that cogeneration is independent of external weather factors, unlike the heavily subsidised wind power. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance how it is considered that the waste incineration tax reduces the profitability of operators and restricts their ability to invest which could improve the efficiency of the plants. And how does the Minister of Finance see a reduction in incentives for the further expansion of important electricity generation in favour of cheaper hot water production?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-223	Frau President! Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. I appreciate the fact that the Minister of Finance has had a rather long day in this House, but I am afraid I did not understand everything in her reply. However, what I heard was that we are aiming for a net zero emission. I therefore have a question. If this tax does not reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it will not contribute to the net zero emission target. Then I understand even less why you have this tax. The Minister of Finance also claims earlier in his speech that the tax on waste incineration will not affect municipal waste management costs. That assessment is incorrect. Just before the coronapandemy broke out, me and Member Westroth plus another fellow Member of Parliament were out on what we called a plastic trip. We visited various companies that work with plastics and recycling to see how the government's so-called environmental taxes work in reality. It is a journey that I also recommend to the government and its representatives to make before deciding on more inefficient taxes with the environment as their cover. During the trip, we visited stores to see how the plastic bag tax has affected and what the packaging that consumers buy looks like. We talked to waste collection companies, and we visited recycling facilities and producers of recycled plastic articles. One of the places we visited was a combined heat and power plant. When we were there, we asked how the waste incineration tax imposed by the government would affect them. The unexpected response was: not at all. They entirely paid the cost to the municipal waste company, which in turn passed the cost on to us consumers. This is not the only facility that acts that way. A round-up suggests that many companies will pass on the cost to households, either through increased waste tariffs or, if you have a lot of imported waste, through increased charges for district heating – thus, contrary to what the Minister of Finance says here today. Again, the government shows that it is not in contact with reality and that the assessments it makes do not reflect the actual facts. So it was the single mother of young children in Jönköping who paid for the government's ill-considered tax. What, then, is the cost to the consumers in Jönköping because we have a cogeneration plant that ensures that the garbage that cannot be sorted and recycled in other ways is recycled and becomes electricity and heat for about 30 000 households? This year the tax is SEK 100 per tonne, which corresponds to approximately 14 million in tax for the heating plant in Jönköping. Next year it will rise to almost 18 million. That is about $5,000 a day in tax for a single plant and in order to recover things that cannot be recovered otherwise rather than put on landfills, as is done in other countries. Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the impact of the waste incineration tax on ordinary consumers, families with children who sort waste and do their bit? If not, why is this treasure still there?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-233	Madam President, I would like Since Angelica Lundberg does not really seem to have understood what I said in the answer regarding how the tax can affect municipalities or households, I repeat how I replied: The tax on waste incineration is generally not assessed as being passed on to waste reception fees. Thus, municipal waste management costs are not affected. By contrast, a large part of the energy companies affected by the tax are municipally owned, and the results of the companies thus affect the municipal revenues of the municipalities that own energy companies with waste incineration boilers. The proportion of the tax costs passed on to the price of district heating and the burden on the company's performance depends on local market conditions. So it can look different in different parts of the country. At the time of the recent introduction of the tax, data on the way in which the tax is passed on or charged to companies' performance is currently lacking. Of course, this is the case with all the new taxes introduced; we do not know in advance exactly how taxes will be passed on to different parts of society. It is important to point out that the waste incineration tax is part of the green tax exchange. This means that we are lowering the tax as much as we are raising it. Tax revenues from waste incineration tax are refunded to households, among other things, in the form of the general tax reduction that was part of this year's budget. Some also take the form of forwarding future green tax exchange revenues. We did that because of the Corona crisis. In the case of municipalities, which of course can also be affected by the tax, the government has made historically large contributions to municipalities and regions to ensure that they have the resources to cope with the economic crisis that we find ourselves in. These contributions result in many more than any loss of revenue for the municipal energy companies as a result of this tax. These are considerable amounts that we have secured. The Swedish Democrats have many detailed views on the tax. This will, of course, be part of both the evaluation carried out by the Swedish Tax Agency and the analysis work that will be done on exactly how we set this up from the Government Office. This remains to be seen. However, I do not hear so much from the Swedish Democrats about how one imagines that we will achieve net zero emissions or maintain the waste hierarchy. It is also important to say that the waste incineration tax is intended to steer towards reduced emissions in the long term.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-242	Madam President, I would like We look forward to the preliminary amendments from both the Swedish Tax Agency and the Government Office when they arrive. It is interesting to hear the Minister of Finance here talking about the green tax shift when the Minister of Finance has previously denied in debates that the so-called new green taxes should finance certain income tax cuts, such as the removal of the defence tax. As the Minister said, there is no need to go beyond the fifth point of the January agreement on reduced labour tax and green tax shifting, which states that the defence tax will be abolished on 1 January 2020 and that the share of environmental taxes in tax revenues will increase. A strong green tax shift will be implemented with increased environmental taxes being exchanged for lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. But already at the end of last year, the Swedish National Audit Office in a report criticised the government's failure to analyse the long-term effects of increasingly relying on revenues from environmental taxes that are intended to lead to behavioural changes and, by extension, revenue reductions as behavior changes. In the Government's proposal for a tax on waste incineration in 2019, the net public financial impact of the tax in 2021 was estimated at SEK 420 million. However, in the Government's budget for 2021, the tax's outcome is estimated to be as much as SEK 540 million, i.e. just over 30 percent higher than what was calculated in the bill. Finally, I would therefore like to ask the Minister how the sharp increase in income from the waste incineration tax will affect the government's assessment of the environmental benefits with it.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-247	Madam President, I would like The companies themselves thus contradict what the Minister claims in this House. They say that they transfer the tax on the municipal waste company, which in turn places it on the customer. In this case, I trust that the entrepreneurs they talked to in this round actually know how they handle their own companies. The tax thus leads to consumers being punished for something they do not have a chance to influence, and the principle of polluter pays is completely lost. Instead, it will be the single mother of young children in Jönköping and pensioners who find it difficult to get the pension to be sufficient to pay when the government steams up with its inefficient and counterproductive taxes, which at the same time greenwashes when trying to get the public to go for the scam that this would be an environmental tax. What should be done to reduce emissions? Of course, measures should be taken that have an effect. The government itself says that this tax has no effect on greenhouse gases and emissions. Then it is certainly not a good tax. Surely the Minister of Finance must agree that it is a rather absurd tax – in fact, in my view, one of the most bizarre things we have had in this country, apart from the plastic bag tax and the clothing tax that is under way. Why does the government do this if not to cover the gaps in the budget that arise when trying to appease its cooperation parties, the Center and the Liberals? Can the Minister of Finance not admit that this is merely a fiscal tax without any benefit to climate change? More importantly, can the Minister of Finance here and now promise that she will significantly change or completely abolish the waste incineration tax? The single mother of young children in Jönköping deserves an answer to that question.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-251	Madam President, I would like The single mother of young children in Jönköping has received a tax reduction this year. One of the reasons why she has been able to get it is the income we get from the waste incineration tax, but also other parts of the green tax exchange. There I have been very clear all along: The tax is not part of the green tax exchange. There are other income taxes we have reduced through the green tax exchange, for example the large tax reduction that will go to households, mostly those with lower incomes, around the whole of Sweden. This tax reduction is possible precisely because we have increased the tax on, for example, waste incineration. The chemical tax is another such example. This, the green tax shift, is part of the climate and environmental policy pursued by the government. We want to increase taxes on things that are hazardous to the environment but on the other hand be able to lower taxes for ordinary households all over Sweden. Having said that, we are open to developing the waste incineration tax so that it becomes more accurate than it is today, and of course we are also looking at the negative effects that the tax should have. On the other hand, I can safely say to local councillors around Sweden that the contributions that have been received in recent years and will receive in the coming years will more than cover any municipal reduced income or increased costs due to the waste incineration tax. This does not stand in the way of secure welfare. On the other hand, it is one of many steps to have good climate and environmental work in Sweden. It is necessary, because it is in the green transition that future jobs exist. Unfortunately, the policy of the Swedish democrats is not at all in line for what is the future of employment policy.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-254	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I can explain the financial support measures presented during the year and their impact. The pandemic has hit the world and Sweden hard. People's lives and health have gone bad, and the world economy has entered a deep recession. Since the virus outbreak, the government, the Center Party and the Liberals have presented historically large measures to, among other things, limit the spread of infection and mitigate the effects on jobs and businesses. The measures have made a big difference. Without going into detail on all the measures, I would mention a few. Together with considerable effort from employees and substantial financial contributions, sufficient capacity in intensive care has been maintained, despite the strained situation. The fall in employment has been curbed by short-term lay-offs, reduced social security contributions, conversion aid and substantial subsidies to the local government sector. The levels of unemployment benefit have been temporarily increased and the regulatory framework has been adjusted to allow more people to qualify for benefit. The impact of restrictions on the cultural, sports and media sectors has been mitigated by the substantial contribution of these sectors. For 2020, the Government has presented crisis measures with an amount of SEK 200 billion in clean expenditure, i.e. in addition to 250 billion in guarantees and 335 billion in liquidity enhancements. In connection with this autumn's budget work, this work continued, with record investments of over 100 billion. Several of the crisis measures have now been extended and adjusted in the winter, increasing the scope further. The crisis measures involve large amounts of money, and it is important to monitor the impact of the measures, to prosecute abuse and to learn lessons. We know that only short-term lay-off has so far involved around 590 000 employees and 73 000 companies, which has probably saved tens of thousands of jobs. At the same time, the strengthening of unemployment insurance has given greater security to those who, despite the measures, have lost their jobs. Today, over 15 000 more beneficiaries receive 80% of their previous income from unemployment insurance compared with previous levels. The pandemic is not over, and more evaluation will be needed. That is precisely why the Corona Commission and several relevant authorities have been asked to look at this very point. I look forward to hearing the conclusions. Edward Riedl has also asked me to what extent measures have been taken and reshaped because of the initiative and actions of the Moderates in Parliament. It is gratifying that Edward Riedl and the Moderates seem to be so pleased with the government's emergency measures that they now want to take credit for them afterwards. We are in a serious and unpredictable situation. The government and the cooperation parties have followed developments closely and continuously with new proposals, most recently today. We have shown that we can come up with new measures in a short time if necessary, and we are prepared to do so again. At the same time, I am pleased with the constructive cooperation with the Riksdag, where it has quickly dealt with a large number of crisis measures.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-263	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Let me begin by saying that Sweden is unfortunately one of the more affected countries of covid-19, with very many deaths and many who have become ill. We have healthcare professionals and people working in the care of the elderly and in many other places who are struggling and doing a fantastic job in these very difficult conditions. I think it is important that we should all emphasise this in this House. What my interpellation is about, Madam President, is some part of the management of the pandemic and, above all, the economic management. When we introduce restrictions to reduce the spread of infection, it has an effect on both jobs and businesses in this country, and the question is how best to help ensure that we have jobs and jobs left after the crisis. Before Christmas, the government tightened the restrictions. The high rate of infection we have was necessary. When you tighten the restrictions, it threatens jobs and businesses. Hardly pressured companies in the industries that are most affected got it even tougher. This government, Madam President, chose to first announce stricter restrictions and then go on Christmas holidays – without telling us how to ensure the situation for all those who then became worried about their jobs. We Moderates did the opposite. When the government was on Christmas break, we sat down and began to think about what measures are needed to ensure that jobs are not lost in the Swedish economy. After we had worked out the proposals at Christmas, we Moderates called together the Finance Committee and put forward the proposals there. We do not have time to take up all our proposals in the short debate here today, but one of them was an increase in the level of compensation in turnover and conversion aid to 90%. This morning, when we in the Committee on Finance were to take a decision on this, the government, together with the cooperation parties, presented a proposal for precisely 90% compensation in turnover and conversion aid. That is a good thing; let me say it, Madam President. That's very good. It will save jobs and businesses. However, what I am opposed to is the description given by the Minister for Finance both in response to my interpellation and when she is speaking in the media, where she and the government are trying to take credit for this. It is very possible that the Minister for Finance and the Government will also consider support and other measures. Nevertheless, I wonder with what precision the same coincidence has happened time and again throughout the crisis: the Moderates are putting forward proposals in the Committee on Finance, and the government is then putting forward a similar proposal two or three weeks later. It is good that we get through good and necessary policies, but it is petty with a finance minister pretending that she has done the job although she has been on vacation. It is petty, Madam President! My question to the Minister for Finance is: Is this a correct description of what has happened? It is possible to follow it in the Minutes and so on. Is it true that it was actually the Moderates who tabled the proposal, the same proposal that the government and the cooperation parties presented this morning? This has been the case with crisis support after crisis support: the Moderates put forward the proposals and get them through, and then the government stands and tries to take credit. I think it's petty trying to take credit for things you don't actually do. But it's good that we get through good politics.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-273	Madam President, I would like It has been hard work at the Ministry of Finance during the Christmas and New Year holidays. I want respect for those officials who have worked extremely hard over the past year and have now been ordered additional overtime to work during the weekends so that we can present new support. To say that the government has taken Christmas leave is very disrespectful to them, not only the non-political officials but also to many others, I myself included, who have worked over the weekends so that we could present new support today. We have worked extremely intensively all the way since the start of the Corona crisis and have taken historic steps to ensure that municipalities and regions have sufficient resources for health care, care for the elderly and public transport and that we can help viable companies to overcome this crisis. Of course, we have also worked for the weekends. I've had a lot of conversations and meetings during the weekends. Having said that, we already presented a long series of extensions of aid in December. We also presented much of this before some of the new restrictions came. Among other things, we doubled the possibilities for tax deferral, extended short-term lay-off until June and extended the conversion aid. Now during the weekends we have been working on further changes, and some of them we were able to present this morning. Of course, we will continue with the work we have done during the weekends. We have not finished everything, and it is clear that there will be further measures that we will be able to present in the future. This has been possible because we have worked during the weekends. . Smallyness is perhaps not the best word to use, Edward Riedl, when you try to give the impression that all those who have worked now during the weekends have been lying and lazy.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-278	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that what the Minister for Finance thinks is disrespectful is that we claim that the government went on holiday. But that is exactly what happened! The government took a vacation and chose not to present solutions to save jobs and companies when presenting tightened restrictions. That is what the criticism is about. I have not criticised any non-political officials at the Government Office, but I have criticised the government. The government presents stricter restrictions and then goes on Christmas holidays and chooses not to come with support. We Moderates are working on proposals during the Christmas and New Year holidays, calling together the Finance Committee and presenting the proposals. Then the government comes back and puts forward exactly the same proposal as its own! It's great that we get through good policies to save jobs and businesses. However, my question to the minister in the interpellation relates to the pattern: the Moderates produce proposals that they put forward and push through, many times together with the government, and then the government stands afterwards and pretends to have done the work itself and produced the proposals. This is what the Minister for Finance writes in his reply. If something is disrespectful, Madam President, it is a Minister of Finance who comes to Parliament and claims that she has done work that others have done. I find that disrespectful. But let's take another question. Can the Minister of Finance answer what happened when the turnover aid for individual firms was produced? I can tell you what my picture looks like, so may the Minister of Finance please give his version of how that support came about, one of the many subsidies that we have received in place. My picture, and it can also be traced back in everything that is documented here in Parliament, is that the Moderates put forward a proposal for a turnover support for individual companies because individual companies had not received any support. We also got all the parties to support the Moderates' proposals here in the Swedish Parliament. The Parliament addressed an announcement to the government in June, and then many had lived without pay for several months. The Parliament said to the government: "Return to the Riksdag without delay with proposals for this!" Again the government followed the same pattern: They went on vacation and took summer leave. It will once again be the Moderates who will have to press. In August, we called the Committee on Finance again to fast-track this. At that time we threatened the government that we would do this in Parliament if the government did not want to do what the parliament had asked. At that time the government began to participate in the work to develop such support, and we got it together during the autumn. That's good, but it was months too late. This is my picture, and it can be followed in the documentation from the Swedish Parliament. Then my question is: does the Minister of Finance have a different picture? When she answers my interpellation in the way she does, she must have a different picture of the reality, and I would very much like the Minister of Finance to explain it. I still find it petty to take credit for things that are not actually done. But I am very interested to hear the Minister of Finance tell me how the turnover support for individual firm came into place.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-288	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl is quite wrong when he says that the government took Christmas leave after we presented the new measures. If we had done so, it would not have been possible today to make the proposals that we have now put on the table of Parliament. Today we presented a new legislative referral, and we also presented extended conversion aid. It wouldn't have been possible if we'd gone on Christmas vacation. There will also be additional measures presented which would not have been possible if we had been on Christmas leave. It's a completely false reality statement that Edward Riedl gives. There's a difference when you're in opposition compared to when you're in government. We need to present proposals that are concrete and feasible. There are other demands on the proposals presented by the government compared with those presented by an opposition, such as greater support for self-employed workers. There's a difference, and it's natural. It is the government that governs the kingdom. The opposition does not have the same device we have in the Government Office. But this also means that when I present proposals, they need to be thorough. It is quite correct that it was an announcement from the Riksdag that we should produce additional support for self-employed workers. However, further support for self-employed workers is not something that is being swept out of hand, but requires some work. That's why it was working on it during the summer, and we were then able to present this in the autumn. It was not that there was a concrete proposal from the Moderates that was easily feasible, but that we were required to work in the Government Office to produce such a proposal. It affects a great many people, so we also had a rather hard job of finding out how to deal with this in practice, which authority could accept the applications and which authorities had the capacity to pay out the aid. After all, the most natural authorities, both the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Agency, were fully engaged in paying out conversion aid and support for time lay-off. For me, it is important that the description of reality is correct. There has been work at a high pace in the Government Office and in the Government during the Christmas and New Year holidays to be able to present, among other things, the proposals we have presented today.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-293	Madam President, I would like I listened to what the Minister for Finance said in the last speech. I think you should interpret each other favorably, so I'll try to think that I've misunderstood the interpellation response. I understood the interpellation response as if the Minister of Finance thought it was the government that had developed and done this. But now I understand that the Minister of Finance's picture is this: If the Moderates make proposals, put them on the board of Parliament and get them through and the Riksdag gives instructions to the government to return to the proposals – that's how the division of work between parliament and government looks – does the government since what the Moderates have proposed. That's right. That is a perfectly correct description from the Minister for Finance. When you agree in the Swedish Parliament on what to do, the government must then do that work. There are non-political officials doing this at the Government Office. Then I have one last thought I would like to raise with the Minister for Finance, Madam President. If this is the case, my picture is correct. Then it is correct in that we have only misunderstood each other with regard to all that I have asked the Minister for Finance. It is in this way that the Minister of Finance is not trying to take credit for presenting these emergency aid. In that case, what the Minister for Finance has meant is that the government has done what the Riksdag and, above all, the Moderates have made proposals about. It's been done practically since... just so we understand each other and what we mean. If it is otherwise, I do not understand what the Minister of Finance says in his interpellation response, Madam President. There you almost get the impression that the Finance Minister thinks it is she and the government that have done this job. It is not an accurate description of reality. That is why I have been trying to get answers from the Minister for Finance to concrete questions – we have not received that.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-297	Madam President, I would like The truth is: Quite often when the Moderates have put forward a proposal, we have come quite a long way in drafting that proposal. Looking at a time line, one can also see that we have presented proposals at a concrete level that would not have been possible if we had not had a longer preparation time than the time from the Moderates said that something should be done to the government presenting a concrete proposal. But there have also been times, for example, when it comes to turnover support, where the Moderates have demanded something in the Riksdag and the government have then gone home and done the job. So it has been both. The truth is that we have had a pretty good dialogue and a pretty good cooperation during this crisis. At least that's my assessment. I value the discussions, the cooperation and the contacts I have had with Elisabeth Svantesson. I think she's an honorable and good person. But what situation are we in now? The Government Office is working hard to develop new support. We've also been working on Christmas holidays. However, we have now taken time to produce the basis for this interpellation debate. Members of Parliament, of course, have every right in the world to ask interpellations. It is an important instrument, of course, to be used. But Edward Riedl has called me to Parliament to debate who was the first to claim to be in favour of this or that proposal. Then Edward Riedl calls me petty in the same interpellation debate. I don't have to say much more than that. I think this speaks very clearly to itself.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-301	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I can explain the purpose and the idea of the proposed bank tax and whether the motive is to increase or reduce financial stability in the banking sector. Financial crises are costly. Both Sweden and other countries have experienced it. The socio-economic costs of financial crises may be direct or indirect. Direct costs are incurred when the State has to take measures to ensure financial stability, and indirect costs arise when the economic cycle folds as a result of the financial crisis. The regulatory framework that surrounds credit institutions, such as the regulatory framework on capital adequacy and resolution, is primarily aimed at promoting financial stability by imposing requirements on the resilience of credit institutions and, in the case of resolution, also being able to deal with failing credit institutions with a specific procedure. By strengthening financial stability, these frameworks contribute to reducing the risk of both direct and indirect costs to the State in the event of a major disruption of the financial system. However, despite existing regulation and supervision, it cannot be excluded that financial crises will arise in the future and that costs will arise as a result. The risk of a credit institution causing significant indirect costs to society in the event of a financial system disruption or a financial crisis varies according to the size and importance of the institutions. Large institutions are such an important part of the financial system that their actions may affect the functioning of the financial system, for example regarding access to credit for households and businesses. Therefore, if they are seriously disrupted in their activities, it may have negative effects on the economy as a whole, resulting in indirect costs for the State. Therefore, credit institutions which, due to their size and importance for the functioning of the financial market, risk causing significant indirect costs to society in the event of a financial crisis should pay the risk tax. The aim of the risk tax is to strengthen public finances and to keep public debt at a lower level, thereby creating scope for coping with a future financial crisis. With stronger public finances, Sweden is better equipped to meet challenges and implement the necessary measures in a crisis situation.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have asked the Minister of Finance what the rationale for the bank tax is – now it is called risk tax, quite correctly – and, above all, whether the aim is to increase or reduce financial stability. I have asked that question from two points of view. One is that the January parties presented this already in autumn 2019 as a way to finance increased defence grants. This has also been part of the criticism along the way with this tax. So you have picked a treasure and you do not intend to use it for what you say. That is one perspective: what you use the tax for. The second point of departure is, in fact, what the Finance Minister describes in his reply: how we safeguard financial stability. It should be remembered that this tax hits 7 of the 125 banks that exist. You can then look at the foreign banks, which is interesting from a different perspective, i.e. when it comes to competition neutrality. My guess is that both I and the Minister for Finance want us to have banks left in Sweden with all the jobs and tax revenues that that entails. Of the 35 foreign banks, 2 will be covered by this. This means, Madam President, that competition is being distorted very much between major Swedish banks and foreign banks and those which, so to speak, are not regulated in the way that we might wish for. The banks that will be hit by this will have an increase: in principle, the cost corresponds to an increase in corporate tax from just over 20% to almost 30%, an extreme increase in corporate tax if you put it that way instead. There are huge consequences for these banks, and that is the distortion of competition that needs to be understood. Counting on this, we are talking about 6 000 - 7 000 employees who need to be rationalised out of the banking system. I do not doubt the Social Democrats in this, Madam President, but I believe that we want citizens to be able to get in touch with their bank accounts when it comes to cash management and much more. However, about 20% of employees in the banking sector would have to be rationalised off if the banks are to take this, and the truth is, unfortunately, that these costs will to a very large extent be passed on to customers, that is, to us citizens. Unfortunately, the effect is that unregulated operators and foreign banks have a competitive advantage vis-à-vis those who are most responsible. I do not think that should be the point of this. The Bankers' Association condemns this, and it would be unreasonable for them to land in a different conclusion in view of the high costs that they are to pay. However, all three expert authorities that we have in Sweden, i.e. the Riksbank, the Swedish National Debt Office and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, also condemn this with similar criticism. I believe that the National Debt Office even goes so far as to say that this risks impairing financial stability. The Bank Association, the authorities of experts and, I believe, even some of the members of the Finance Minister's party working in Kommuninvest have said that this is not good. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: are they all wrong to warn against the risks to financial stability if they do this?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-314	Madam President, I would like If we are to talk about party colleagues, both the Financial Supervisory Authority, the National Debt Office and the Bank Association are actually led by former moderate state secretary, and when they were moderate state secretary, the Moderates were for a bank tax. I don't know if the Moderates have turned completely here. I need to read the Moderate Budget Movement again; I don't have all the lines. So you were against the bank tax in the budget bill, yes. Now, of course, we look at the referrals that have come in and analysed them carefully. It may also be that we at the Ministry of Finance make different assessments of the effects of a tax than the authorities and perhaps also industry organisations and others do. A trade association financed by those who are supposed to pay the tax may have some other glasses on it when doing the analysis than when, as the government does, it represents the interests of taxpayers and the general interest. The reason that it is the large credit institutions that are meeting is that in the event of financial crises, the financial sector is usually able to impose huge costs on the national economy. It is a reason why we believe that we should be able to levy such a tax. It is above all the large institutions that are causing costs. If a bank has to pay the tax, it is not about being Swedish or foreign, it is about how big it is in Sweden, and many of the big banks that we have in Sweden are also Swedish. As I said, the aim is to strengthen public finances and thus have a better chance of coping with future crises. I also think it is important to point out that we have reduced corporate tax in several stages in recent years, and this has been financed by broadening the basis of corporate tax. Thus, corporate tax has not been reduced, but it has broadened the base so that we will have fewer exemptions and then be able to reduce tax levels. However, this basic expansion has not affected the financial sector; on the other hand, it has been able to take part in the tax reduction, so we have actually reduced the tax on banks in recent years. I think that this is a reason why these banks should be able to pay the tax without being affected by some of the consequences that are claimed, among other things, by professional organisations.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-319	Madam President, I would like You don't usually thank me twice for the answer, but I guess I do, because I think it was a constructive tone. I believe that the Minister for Finance and I fully agree on the importance both of the banks being strictly regulated in the way we see today and of ensuring that the banks are involved in paying their share of the costs in society over time. When it comes to reduced corporate tax, it is basically good if we get companies to want to pay their taxes in Sweden, and that was probably the point of my comparison. The tax now imposed on very few of the banks operating in Sweden means that the banks and credit institutions hit by this tax will have a corporate tax increase from approximately 20.6% – the Minister of Finance will certainly have better control of this tax than I do – up to almost 30% in practice, while the foreign unregulated operators in particular will not have this tax entirely. This means, as far as I and the consultation bodies can judge, that people who are outside our control are rewarded. I do not think this should be the aim of the tax which, if I interpret the answer from the Minister of Finance correctly, also aims to strengthen financial stability. Then we should rather reward those banks or at least ensure that you pay the same kind of tax, risk premium or how we want to put it. We should not penalise any of the major Swedish banks. As I said in principle, the bank hit by the tax has an increase from around 20% to almost 30% in corporate tax, while everyone else who is unregulated or chooses to reduce the customer stock at the turn of the year – which is also a popular way of avoiding this type of instrument in other parts – will not be involved in contributing. I think that is wrong, Madam President. Me and the Moderates are basically not against this in any way. During our government years, we were also very tough against the banks linked to the financial crisis and other things. Of course they should be involved in paying over time. The problem with the creation of this tax, and this is what the consultation bodies are also warning about, is that there is a real risk of worsening financial stability, even if the aim is reversed. Then my thought is: Is the government prepared to reconsider this? It is not a question of banks not being involved in contributing; that is not what my question was about.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-325	Madam President, I would like I apologise if I was unclear: the purpose of this is not to strengthen financial stability. We do this with the existing regulatory framework, and much of that framework is decided at European and international level. There have been significant increases since the financial crisis in order to strengthen financial stability. Instead, the aim of this tax is to strengthen public finances so that we can have better opportunities to face future crises, precisely because we know that the financial industry has historically caused huge costs to the national economy. We will have better opportunities to face this if we can strengthen public finances, and we will do so by levying this tax. In addition, this tax charge is not far from the tax cut that the financial sector has had in recent years. This leads me to believe that there are reasonably good opportunities for the industry to pay this tax without the costs having to be passed on to customers or that it needs to have a major impact on employment in the industry. It is not that we saw significantly lower costs for our customers when we got the big tax reduction. Unfortunately, I do not think so many people have experienced it that way. It is quite correct that the Moderates were sharp against the banks during the financial crisis, but it was above all in what they said and how they sounded. It was not very sharp measures in the form of, for example, an increase in taxation, but it was a high tone. On the other hand, there was a good and urgent tightening of the regulatory framework at EU and international level. But otherwise it was mostly a loud tone from the Moderates, to be honest.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-330	Madam President, I would like I am not going to go into all parts of whether there was empty rhetoric or content in this. It is possible to find out for anyone who is interested. My thinking concerns the proposal that lies here and now. The final question I am trying to get an answer from the Minister for Finance is whether it is prepared to reconsider the proposal, given that it distorts competition and possibly impairs financial stability. I do not think so, Madam President. Nevertheless, I think that is a good thing; that is not the point. The referral authorities are warning that these things can happen. I have full respect for the fact that the Bankers' Association, which will represent the banks, has views on increased costs – that is perhaps one thing – but also our expert authorities in the area of financial stability warn of the same things. There may be reasons for the Minister to listen to the criticism. Madam President, I would like Can the Minister of Finance consider other ways, if financial stability is impaired, for the benefit of foreign banking operators over the benefit of the Swedish and those who are unregulated over those who are regulated? I think it would be unfortunate if this were to happen, given that both I and the Minister for Finance think it is good that the banking sector is regulated and is involved in contributing. Now we risk doing exactly the opposite.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-334	Madam President, I would like Of course, we analyse the referrals received from industry organisations and, of course, from our authorities. We can then return to the Riksdag with what conclusions we draw. I can already say that it is not obvious that we will draw the same conclusions as the Financial Supervisory Authority. We make a different assessment than Finansinspektionen of the consequences of the tax, but we can return to that more precisely. I have made it clear that our assessment is that the financial industry can contribute more. There are huge profits in that industry. In addition to making huge profits, it has also benefited from large, substantial tax cuts in recent years. Against this background, there are good opportunities to tax the industry. The main reason for the tax is that the financial industry has historically, time and again, caused very high costs to the national economy and ordinary citizens due to crises and imbalances. Then ordinary employees will have to take the fall. We think it is reasonable for those who own the banks to contribute a little more to the public so that we can better protect ordinary people on the day of crisis. That is the policy of the Social Democrats. The Moderates are against this.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-338	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked me what Sweden, preferably together with others, can do to further mark against the People's Republic of China in terms of its action against Hong Kong. Furthermore, Mr Wallmark has asked me how I view the risk of escalation in the region, where what is happening to Hong Kong today can be followed by further pressure and extreme military violence against Taiwan. Finally, Mr Wallmark has asked me about the events of recent months – with measures aimed at Hong Kong and a long-term threat to Taiwan – in some way alters the government's strategic stance and vision towards the People's Republic of China. Let me begin by emphasising the seriousness with which I and the government look at developments in Hong Kong and the introduction of the new security legislation there. The democratic space in Hong Kong has been reduced, and the enjoyment of human rights by individuals is being increasingly curtailed, which is very worrying. We in Sweden have on several occasions presented our view to the Chinese authorities. It was urgent that the EU raise the issue with the Chinese leadership at the EU-China summits in June and September. In July, EU Member States agreed on a number of Council conclusions on Hong Kong which set out a series of concrete measures in response to events, including continued EU presence in trials against representatives of the democratic movement. It is important that we act in agreement, and a discussion will be held on the way forward. The government is working towards continued clear EU-wide action. I have also had meetings and direct contact with democracy activists from Hong Kong to get firsthand information and express my support. It is regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's freedom of movement. Controversies between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan must be resolved peacefully and in a manner consistent with the will of the people of Taiwan. A little more than a year ago, after constructive discussions, the Parliament adopted a letter n on the work on matters relating to China. It shows that the government will strive for the EU and like-minded countries to cooperate and act jointly on the security and defence challenges posed by the increased Chinese global influence. The government will first and foremost, through the EU and in cooperation with like-minded people, demand China to comply with its international legal obligations, including human rights commitments, and take responsibility for rule-based multilateral cooperation.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-343	Madam President, I would like I will try to be as condensed and clear on this fundamentally serious issue as the Foreign Minister was in his reply. Madam President, I would like There are a few points to make. Defined events in 2020; this was the year of the pandemic. But I believe that in the history books 2020 will also be marked by writings about what happened in Hong Kong with the draconian security laws and the darkness that, at a terrible rate, sank over Hong Kong. I am convinced that the Foreign Minister agrees with me that it has gone faster and has been more serious than anyone could have anticipated. We see how democracy activists are arrested and how books are cleared. We saw that the planned elections to take place in autumn 2020 were cancelled in Hong Kong. Just a few days ago, when some fifty democracy activists were arrested, over a thousand police officers in Hong Kong hit 72 places. They arrested some of the most famous representatives of democracy and freedom in Hong Kong. Added to this is the harassment suffered by newspaper magnate Jimmy Lai, who is one of the central representatives of democracy in Hong Kong. Let me make two points. I think we should put great hope in the new American administration. What you can hear from incoming President Biden and his team is that you want to form the alliance of free states and democracies. It would be valuable, and it could be a clear front and a flank against the People's Republic of China, which is ultimately exerting this threat and these abuses against Hong Kong. I saw in connection with the arrest of the 50 democracy activists some day ago that a joint statement was made by the governments of the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and the United States. It is extremely important that Europe – the EU – coordinates with the four. They are the countries that can stand up for the rule of law, democracy and freedom globally – not only in Hong Kong but precisely in Hong Kong. Madam President, I would like If 2020 was a defining year, not least in the case of the pandemic and in the case of Hong Kong, 2021 hides the fact that it was a hundred years ago that the Chinese Communist Party was formed. I believe that we will see various things that the Communist Party wants to manifest in connection with it. In 2049, the People's Republic is 100 years old. What I am concerned about is that Taiwan, with the will to incorporate it militarily, could be seen as the crown jewel in that celebration. That is why I think it is important to focus on and observe what is happening in Taiwan. The best way to do that is to keep talking about Taiwan, to say that democracy, the rule of law and media freedom are possible in Chinese because Taiwan is such an area, and to ensure that Taiwan can be included in international contexts in all ways and in all contexts where possible.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-351	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Mr Wallmark that it is important to raise Taiwan, to talk both about what is happening in Hong Kong and about the risks that exist for Taiwan and to discuss it in this House. China's stronger position affects more and more questions. For the Swedish part, it is important that the EU and Sweden, with the China strategy adopted by the Riksdag in 2016, maintain a broad consensus with China. I think it is a good thing that we are united in this House, and I think it is a good thing that we, both in the European Union and together with the countries mentioned by Mr Wallmark, are trying to influence China – even when bad things are happening. It is important that transatlantic cooperation is strong also in China. There, as in many other matters, I hope for the new administration and that we will be able to work together well. There is uncertainty about medium- and long-term developments in China, but it is quite clear that China is trying to increase its global influence in different ways. At the same time, China has a number of internal challenges, and it has a political system that cannot resolve internal conflicts. What is happening in China will then have global consequences and repercussions in large parts of the world. China is a multilateral and very influential player. I also think that when the United States withdraws, China has moved forward in several multilateral organisations – not least the World Health Organisation, which is particularly active now because we have a pandemic. Like Hans Wallmark, I am concerned about Taiwan's position. We have had a good exchange with Taiwan for a very long time, under both Social Democraticly led and moderate-led governments. Last time we received the Taiwanese Minister for Research here in Sweden because it is a good exchange. We think it is important for the people of Taiwan to have an influence on their own situation. Having said that, the government continues with the so-called 'one China' policy with the other EU countries, which, of course, places certain limitations on formalities.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-357	Madam President, I would like The 25-year-old, very attentive student activist Joshua Wong writes on Twitter: Temporarily in prison, the account is handled by friends. This is saying something. It is emblematic of the situation in Hong Kong at the moment, and that is why it is extremely important to react and act. That is why, and I share that view with the Foreign Minister, coordination and coordination are crucial. The European Union is extremely important here. It is also important for the EU to coordinate with key actors such as the US, the UK, Australia and Canada. In the light of this, it is also essential to discuss the investment agreement between the EU and the People's Republic of China. Such an investment agreement must not be regarded as or be seen in the light of any form of legitimisation or appreciation of what China is doing. On the contrary, we must be extremely clear about the People's Republic of China. What is also a problem is that the People's Republic of China obviously does not comply with agreements reached. In the context of the return of Hong Kong to China by the UK, an agreement was signed between the countries based on one China two systems. But that agreement is not worth anything with what we are now doing with the draconian security laws. This makes me think that it is important to recognise increasingly what the People's Republic of China is to deal with. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs also refers to the Chinese letter. I am one of those who are proud that we in the Swedish Parliament over all eight parliamentary parties were able to negotiate in the Foreign Affairs Committee a unanimous report. This is a difficult and important issue, and the unity, coordination and coordination that I would like to see in the European Union, I think has been good on such issues in Sweden as well. But it is clear that one comes to a point where one has to adjust, renew and reform previous letters, and in any case, for my part, I have to say that the strike a few days ago against more than 50 democracy activists, with 1 000 policemen storming into 70 places, is a serious sign of how the twilight goes over Hong Kong. That is what requires reaction and action from the outside world.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-363	Madam President, I would like The government's starting point in the work with China is what we have reported to the Riksdag in our letter last autumn, Work on issues related to China. The government states there that the EU is a cornerstone of the government's work on China-related issues. It is of central importance for Sweden that the EU pursues a common, strong and clear China policy. The government will primarily through the EU and, in collaboration with like-minded people, demand China to comply with its international legal obligations and assume responsibility for rule-based multilateral cooperation. This concerns the serious developments in Hong Kong as well as the behaviour of China in Taiwan. The government takes a very serious view of the situation in Hong Kong and, as I have previously pointed out, is in favour of continuing clear EU-wide action. The government will also continue to support Hong Kong's self-governing position. Sweden, like the other EU Member States, has recognised the People's Republic of China. This means that we are all following the so-called 'one China' policy. It is regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's freedom of movement. Sweden and the EU have an interest in securing Taiwan's participation in international organisations, including international expert bodies such as the WHO. The contradictions between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan must be resolved peacefully and in a manner consistent with the will of the people of Taiwan. Taiwan is a well-developed democracy with good respect for human rights. Finally, it is of great importance that neither China nor any other state undermines the rule-based world order. The government's position is clear in this respect.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-367	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me how to work towards a clearer definition of nuclear weapons in the Convention, whether I am prepared to act in order for the Irish definition to become a reality, what resources the Ministry of Foreign Affairs allocates to the work to comply with the Convention, whether I and the Government will ensure that Sweden, as an observer, has the right to make proposals and how I and the Government will act during the forthcoming political party meetings. N defence and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons remain a central foreign and security policy priority for the government. The Stockholm Nuclear Disarmament Initiative, the establishment of a knowledge centre for nuclear disarmament research, our membership of the IAEA Board of Directors, our work on Iran and the JCPOA nuclear agreement, and Sweden's commitment to a more peaceful and safer Korean peninsula are an expression of this. I note that, to date, 5 1 countries, including 3 European countries, have ratified the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW), and that the Convention will therefore enter into force on 22 January. The States which have ratified the Convention are thus bound by international law. Following a careful examination, the Council announced in 2019 its decision not to sign the Convention in its current form. At the same time, the intention was announced that Sweden should become an observer in TPNW – an issue that is now being raised with the forthcoming entry into force. The Government's intention remains that Sweden should become an observer to the Convention once it has entered into force. Several of the questions asked by Håkan Svenneling concern how Sweden, as an observer, will act in various respects. Overall, there is still considerable uncertainty as to how the work under the TPNW will be carried out. This also applies to the role of observers in day-to-day activities and in the context of State Party meetings. Ultimately, however, it will be up to the State Party to take a position on TPNW's procedural rules. The government's general starting point is that Sweden, through active participation, will use the platform that the observership offers in order to influence the convention in the direction we want to see. This will be about trying to overcome the various shortcomings in the convention that Sweden highlighted during the negotiations in 2017. Among these was precisely the question of a clearer definition of nuclear weapons, which the questioner himself raises, and the question of TPNW's verification requirements.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-371	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply. I have put this interpellation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the occasion of the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in ten days' time. This happens when over 50 countries have signed and ratified the Convention, as happened in November. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Sweden is not one of these countries. This is actually the first time in history that Sweden is not part of a convention when it comes into force. This, of course, makes me fundamentally sad and disappointed. Sweden was an active party to the negotiations on the Convention and signed the final document. At the same time, Sweden was clear that it was not satisfied with the text of the Convention in all its parts. So a so - called explanation of vote was given, stating what they were critical of. However, although we have not ratified the Convention, the Swedish Government has declared its intention to become an observer at the meetings of the State Parties. This can be seen as a way for Sweden to influence development, with the hope that the criticism that we raised in the explanation of vote, among other things, can be met by the other states so that it can be possible for Sweden to ratify the convention. Sweden now has a great opportunity – partly by defining and shaping the observer role itself, partly by lifting its criticism and setting the agenda for Sweden to join the convention. One such point is the definition of what is nuclear. It may seem simple, of course, but the reality and modernisations that are now taking place demonstrate the need for a definition. Ireland has developed and adopted such a definition when drafting its legislation in connection with the ratification of the Convention, as I set out in my interpellation. That is why, in my interpellation, I have two questions with the Minister for Foreign Affairs relating to this: how the Minister for Foreign Affairs views the Irish definition and how the Minister intends to act as an observer in order to obtain a clearer definition within the framework of the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. In his reply to me, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as we heard, says:"The government's general starting point is that Sweden, through active participation, should use the platform offered by the observership in order to influence the convention in the direction we want to see. At the same time, she notes that it is up to the countries that have ratified the Convention to lay down the rules for Sweden's participation as an observer. Madam President, I would like With this interpellation, I would like to point out the importance of the government setting the agenda for its work as an observer to the Convention. In my opinion, you can be an observer in many different ways; you can be very active or relatively passive. I want the Swedish Government to be an active party which, in order to change these elements of the Convention, clarifies, for example, the definition of nuclear weapons so that one day it is possible to sign the Convention and we have a parliament that supports it. Sweden has historically had good contacts around the world in its work on disarmament. In particular, it has concerned countries such as Ireland, Austria, New Zealand and Kazakhstan, all of which have ratified the Convention. Austria has also been identified as a likely organiser of the first meeting of the States. This is due, among other things, to the fact that Vienna has historically been a bit of a centre for these issues. The Swedish side can now use these contacts to help shape the role of observer to the Convention. The government's flagship in the work on disarmament is the so-called Stockholm initiative linked to the NPT follow-up conference, i.e. the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Madam President, I would like I will certainly come back with interpellations about the NPT conference, so I do not want the Foreign Minister to focus too much on these elements today. But, of course, she will be happy to report on the meeting that took place last week in connection with the Stockholm initiative.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-382	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for raising the important issue of nuclear disarmament and the question of TPNW! Sweden has always had the starting point to engage in initiatives aimed at achieving a world free from nuclear weapons. Our belief in multilateral solutions as the most effective way to deal with global challenges was the basis for our commitment to the TPNW 2017 negotiations. Sweden came well prepared for the negotiations, and we took part with the aim of contributing to a robust and thorough text of the Convention. Unfortunately, we did not – and not the countries that were with us – reach all the way through the only four weeks that the negotiations lasted. The final text came to contain a number of key shortcomings, including the Commission's relationship with the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT, inadequate wording on enforcement – what is called verifications – and the lack of clear definitions. On the question of definitions, which Håkan Svenneling refers to, Sweden was one of the countries specifically involved in this issue. During the conference, we presented a concrete proposal for the definition of nuclear weapons in the working paper we sent to the meeting. Unfortunately, I can only conclude that our proposal did not receive any support. As a basis for the government's position not to sign or ratify TNW, the government had a detailed basis at its disposal. This included Ambassador Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin's report as well as the referrals received from various authorities, civil society organisations, industry and academic institutions. Security and defence policy aspects were also part of the government's consideration of this issue, and as part of this, of course, dialogue was held on this issue with our security policy partner countries. The central fact of the government's position, however, was the question mark of the Convention's ability to constitute an effective instrument of disarmament. The fact that, as far as the government was able to assess, the signature of TPNW lacked support in this House had to be taken into account. The TPNW will very soon enter into force. The government's position on this issue is solid. Accordingly, Sweden intends to become an observer at the start of its activities under the Convention. Sweden will use the platform provided by the observer mission to pursue issues that are in line with our overall foreign and security policy priorities. Among other things, it is an attempt to overcome the various shortcomings contained in the Convention.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-390	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that Sweden has been involved in these definitions and that you are clear about what you think is flawed and how you would like to have it yourself. It was sad that other countries did not agree with the concrete proposal that Sweden had for the definition of nuclear weapons when these negotiations were conducted in 2017. Now other countries have gone ahead of Sweden in some sense by ratifying the Convention, and they become more driving than Sweden becomes on these issues. Ireland's example of definition is one of the things that one would like to see the government think about: how does Ireland's definition relate to the one we proposed in 2017? Is this something that we want other parties to support? For my part, I do not know the details in such a way that I can answer what the differences are between these parts, but I think that the Foreign Minister and her ministry could analyse these things as part of the work to become an observer at the meeting of the States Parties. I also believe that the Foreign Minister could do a great job – she has a large network of contacts and she is chair of the OSSE during this year – when it comes to dialogue with other countries around Sweden wanting to be an active party and have a major role in the continued work when the state parties will have their first meeting. There is a huge difference between sitting and waiting for other countries to agree on procedural rules for a new convention that comes into force in ten days' time or having an idea of how to be part of the work that is actually at stake. I believe that 2021 will in many ways be a crucial year for disarmament. We have, on the one hand, the postponed NPT conference in August, and, on the other hand, a meeting one year after the Convention is ratified, which means that most of the arguments are that it will be next autumn that this first meeting of the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention will be held. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned, it is a problem that there is no majority to sign the convention in the Swedish Parliament. The Left is the party that has been most visible. The government partner of the Social Democrats The Green Party is pursuing some kind of double line where it has accepted that the government does not sign but at the same time says that it wants to sign. I hope that the Social Democrats will be even clearer, perhaps in your new international programme under development, that you see before you that Sweden needs to work actively for a nuclear-free world and that we can be more who are fighting for nuclear disarmament. But there is still a majority of other parties holding back in the Swedish parliament. I am sorry to hear that, but I hope, if the Convention becomes clearer in its definitions, that parties such as the Center Party could reconsider the kind of decision they have taken today. What I think is important for Sweden to do is to accept that it negotiates with other countries. After all, it is in negotiations that you do not get exactly what you want. This means that you have to have a negotiating position and a thought about what to do. Then it is important that Sweden clearly focuses on what the other states that have ratified the Convention have done or can do for Sweden to come along. Sweden has been a leader in this area for a long time, and if we sign it, it is also likely that other countries will join the course. Therefore, I think it is important for Sweden to put on the leadership shirt. Three European countries have already signed the Convention. Two of them are members of the European Union, and the third is the Vatican State. This would allow us to move forward on the European side by ratifying the Convention and pressing for changes in the directions that we want to see from the Swedish and European sides.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-400	Madam President, I would like I can assure Håkan Svenneling that Sweden continues to pursue an active policy for both disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. We are convinced, like Håkan Svenneling, that this work is best done together with other countries – by showing commitment and having an active diplomacy. Sweden has an ambitious and realistic approach, and it is about achieving concrete results. The forthcoming NPT Conference is an important milestone and opportunity. We now hope that it will take place in August, when it has been postponed twice. We hope that progress will be made on all three pillars, i.e. on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, on peaceful use and, not least, on concrete disarmament. One can also see something positive about the fact that the conference has been postponed and moved forward, and that is that we have had more time to prepare. But with that said, it is unclear which outcome we can expect from the NPT. The level of ambition of the various states parties varies. I hope that a new presidential administration will have higher ambitions for us to achieve with the NPT. We will do what we can to reduce the risks of nuclear use and to ensure that nuclear disarmament is high on the international agenda. Among other things, we do this through the Stockholm initiative, which I am pleased that Håkan Svenneling mentioned. It is an initiative that is a clear expression of our efforts to create good conditions for promoting the countries' disarmament commitment. The work has continued since we started it in 2019. Less than a week ago, I was in Amman, Jordan, at the third ministerial meeting. It was a very successful meeting that was meant to keep steam up, consolidate support and, among other things, to have continued political commitment at the highest level ahead of the review conference. The Stockholm initiative has succeeded in establishing itself as a key force in global disarmament diplomacy. There are not many such initiatives now. But that's one. That is why it was particularly gratifying that the UN Secretary-General was also involved. Despite different political climates and different conditions, we now have, in addition to the 16 countries that were involved, a number of new countries: Belgium, Luxembourg, the Philippines, Azerbaijan, Denmark and Iceland. And there will be more. It is not without feeling a little like activists when it comes to trying to convince more countries to join. Of course, there is ongoing dialogue with the nuclear states. The UK and France have expressed interest in the initiative. But we have received reservations from the United States and Russia. China has not responded. These are very concrete things that are included in the 22 proposals. I can come back to them later. However, I would need more commitment to this and not just to TNW. Get out and work to get more countries to sign!
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-409	Madam President, I would like It is nice to hear that the meeting in Amman was so successful both from the Swedish side and for all the country groups. This also applies to the great commitment of the UN and the presence of Guterres. I absolutely believe that there is room for more countries to get involved. A couple of the countries that are part of the initiative, Kazakhstan and Austria, are also signatories of the TPNW, that is, the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. So I think there is some interaction between the Stockholm initiative and the United Nations Nuclear Weapons Convention. If more countries are to be included, I believe that many of them are among the signatories to the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. After all, it is a strong collection of countries. We all welcome the fact that the United States has a new President in this Parliament, in principle. But it also provides an opportunity to put pressure on the United States once again on nuclear weapons. In fact, we need to question the confidence in nuclear weapons as a deterrent. We know that it would still lead to destruction for everyone on earth. In ten days, 50 countries will be able to act by the entry into force of the Nuclear Weapons Convention. It will be a historic day. It is sad that Sweden is not there then. But I still hope that 2021 will be remembered as a year when Sweden in many ways put on the leadership shirt for nuclear disarmament and disarmament work. The Foreign Minister is currently chairing the OSSE. It will, with both Russia and the United States present, be a forum for highlighting security issues and the risks of having too much confidence in nuclear weapons in the relationship between the various nuclear weapons states. It is well known that the Left Party wants Sweden to sign the Nuclear Weapons Convention. We will continue to fight for it. We are happy to support the Foreign Minister in this work. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be happy to publish the text on how to look at his observer role, how to work in 2021 and how to ensure that an observer really pushes forward in the forthcoming negotiations.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-415	Madam President, I would like The threat from nuclear weapons continues to be greater than in a long time. There is a lack of trust between countries. There is a lack of trust between the nuclear states. It is also new nuclear powers that are developing. The global armament control architecture is under heavy pressure. But I would like to say that Sweden has the leadership shirt in the field of nuclear disarmament, precisely because we started the Stockholm initiative and are now driving it vigorously. It's very concrete. It is about the need to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in doctrines. It is about the need to increase transparency around arsenals and nuclear technology. It is about rebuilding cooperation and communication channels. The Stockholm initiative has the opportunity to reduce the risk of using nuclear weapons and wants to increase confidence. This is an ambitious approach. But it is also a realistic approach. It is not just to say: we want a nuclear-free world. There are 22 concrete proposals on how to do this. I wish that more organisations and parties around us would say: here we have concrete proposals. Influence your governments and join the Stockholm initiative. Make sure there are now changes to the NPT. Because that's what we have. The Nuclear Weapons Convention is a good thing, and we shall make use of the existing platform. As an observer, we will influence it in every way we can. But that is not where the concrete proposals are now. They're in the NPT conference. It is extremely important that it goes forward. There is no guarantee of that; what is at stake is hard work in convincing government after government to join. In this work I hope even more for the Left Party.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-420	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me a question about speed limits on our roads. Good accessibility throughout Sweden is important for it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country and for Sweden to stay together. The government is now undertaking major investments in road infrastructure to strengthen accessibility but also to increase road safety. In the national transport infrastructure plan, a total of SEK 164 billion is invested in the maintenance of state roads. This creates opportunities to improve, among other things, the robustness of the road network, raise standards and improve accessibility. Since 2014, Trafikverket has been working on a systematic review of speed limits on state roads around the country. By adapting the speed limits to the design of the roads as well as renovations and new constructions, lives can be saved. Of the public road network, which covers a total of around 10 000 km, it is a limited road network that will be affected by the review. Up to 2025, the Swedish Transport Administration plans to increase the speed limit for approximately 120 km of public road and to switch about 425 km to a lower speed limit. The Finnish Transport Agency now allocates up to SEK 1 billion to co-finance road safety measures on the regional road network. Priority should be given to measures that reduce the length of travel in rural areas. This means that the speed can also be increased on parts of the road network. It is important that we continue to make the right efforts in the road network where they are useful. In line with the zero vision, the road network is built and maintained with a high level of road safety as a starting point.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-425	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Tomas for his answer. I am certainly a faithful train traveler, but I also travel a lot on my way. I'll drive every possible vehicle after that. Over time, I have seen a dramatic change in road maintenance. As a result, the speed of a large part of the road network has been reduced. This, in turn, affects those living and living in those areas. We do not need to talk just about the hinterland of Norrland, although I will discuss it a little bit too. We can look at Skaraborg, where I live. That's where the speed is reduced. Bus lines have even been pulled in because the road has too poor standards. West traffic does not want to endanger the safety of drivers and passengers. That's why you choose to put down a bus line. It is remarkable that this is happening on one of the state roads. It is extremely important that you can live, live and work throughout Sweden. You should be able to run your company also in the interior of Norrland or up in Värmland forests. It is just as important as being able to travel in metropolitan areas. All tax crowns are equal, and everyone's time is equal. You often hear in the debate that it is important to reduce travel time on train trips so that you can move faster between Stockholm and Malmö or Stockholm and Gothenburg. Then you count all the time minutes and what can be of benefit to get more people to travel by train. It is just as important for those living in rural areas to be able to move around so that the transport itself takes place within reasonable times. I argue that a large part of the road network has now been given a speed limit that seriously affects the possibility of work commuting or of running businesses in these areas. Freight transport itself is not seriously affected because a truck has a maximum speed of 80 kilometres. But many other transports must have a reasonable journey time. It can be about getting to and from work, i.e. work commuting, and it applies whether you travel by bus or in your own passenger car. Without the countryside, where a lot of people live and work, the cities cannot survive. And without the cities, the countryside can't survive either. You must not set the city against land, but it must be as natural to have a quick and easy route if you live in Värmland or Västerbotten as if you live in Tibro, outside Gothenburg or something like that. In my opinion, the government does not live up to the concept it often uses, that is, that the whole of Sweden should live. I can't hear it in my accent, but I have roots on my dad's side up in Vilhelmina. I'm up there a lot. In Vilhelmina the inland uprising was started by Inez Abrahamsson. Why would she do that? Well, she felt that rural areas were being excluded in the discussion about a well-functioning infrastructure. I would like to hear how the Government is reasoning. It is important to ensure the ability to run a business and to live and work, regardless of where you choose to start your business or set your bopostes.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-434	Madam President, I would like I myself come from Kosta, which is a small community in the middle of Småland with 800 inhabitants. I am well aware of how important it is that the roads have good standards. There are no high-speed trains or other transport facilities. It is the car that applies, and it is important that the roads have good quality. It has been a matter of my heart since I took office as Minister of Infrastructure to invest in infrastructure, of course in general but not least in strengthening the road network so that it becomes more road safety. This has happened after years of underinvestment. For many years Sweden had bourgeois governments that ignored investing in infrastructure. The maintenance debt that we inherited was therefore very large. In 2018, we were able to present perhaps the largest investment in infrastructure – 700 billion SEK. Only on road maintenance we invested SEK 164 billion. Since then, we have provided funds in every budget. Last time it was 1.5 billion in an investment in roads in rural areas. That is quite right: the country must stick together. We must be able to invest in increased accessibility both in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and throughout the country. Therefore, investments on Västerdalsbanan, which I have previously told you about here in the Riksdag, on Västerbottens inland roads or on roads at home in Kosta in Småland, are incredibly important to save lives and make sure that road safety is high but also to have a good accessibility. That's how we stick together as a country. We're not going to split up and set the city against land. In the 2018 national plan, in addition to the investment in road maintenance, we increased road safety measures so that the state can help to increase road safety by co-financing central railings. This means that in the county plans you can point out a certain road where you do not want a reduced speed but rather raise it and are prepared to prioritise the means to put a central railing in place so that a 90-way becomes 100 instead of 80. Basically, it is this work that is now under way. But it is true that the Finnish Transport Administration's work is considering reducing speed. This applies on 425 km of road of the 10 000 km of state roads that exist. We have therefore opened up the possibility of cofinancing so that, on long commuting routes, it might be possible to get faster transport. However, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that when you drive a shorter distance – let's say 30 miles – a drop from 90 to 80 means a loss of time of 50 seconds per mile. That's two and a half minutes. I fully understand and think that over longer distances we should make improvements that do not slow down speed. But you save lives with speed reductions over short distances. In previous debates with me, Thomas Morell has talked about how road users drive the clothes off their bodies on road workers. He has pointed out that many road users are driving far too fast and the risk to those who have the tough and important task of improving the standards on our roads. Thomas Morell has also demanded that we have increased traffic control. Yes, this is part of it. The fact that we are the best and the world leader in zero vision, that we have fewer deaths than ever in traffic is linked to combining speed reductions with traffic monitoring, automatic camera monitoring, safe roads with centre railings and not least safe cars and a good vehicle fleet. Let us therefore avoid speed populism. Let us have a discussion about the right efforts that save lives while increasing accessibility throughout the country. In the run-up to the forthcoming national plan, an important part will be a further increase in road safety, not least given that we have a new target to further push back the number of people killed and injured in traffic.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. When it comes to road safety, the Government does not have to try to convince me of the importance of driving like people on the road. It is extremely important that we, as road users, comply with the laws and regulations that exist. The consequences of an accident will be considerably reduced if the initial speed is low before the actual collision occurs. However, this is not the big concern. The concern is the twitchiness that becomes at the speed of the roads. This is usually reflected when measures such as these have been taken. As a result, many drive far too fast to get past. Trucks become hanging behind passenger cars that according to their own meter drive at 80 kilometres while the real speed is significantly lower. A speedometer in a passenger car must not show more than what is the real speed. This creates a difference between heavy and light traffic. It creates situations that you try to get past, and it builds queues. The E20 is a shining example of how wrong it can be. The E20 is a road where I have stood and stepped on for several hours. I have also been to a number of accidents on this road. There the speed has now been reduced to 80 kilometres in the name of road safety. I understand why it has been done because the road is really in bad shape. Here, measures other than slowing down would have been taken; the road should have been rebuilt. A lot of people have died and been injured over the years. Now a drop in speed has been made to 80 kilometres. It creates constant conflicts along the way. I often talk to my old colleagues who work along that road. They say that it is not a day without serious accidents occurring on the hair. If you want to study when things go really bad, you can look at the E20 that goes through Skaraborg. The road is a terrible example if you talk about road safety. But that is not what the interpellation itself was about. It was about the need for us to have a road system that also works outside the large regions. I live in Skaraborg. It is a decent central part of Sweden. However, it is sometimes a bit difficult to get around because the road network is not well developed for the current traffic environment. Of course, SEK 164 billion is being invested, but the question is where the money lands. It is still the case that a very large part of the road network is not of a reasonable standard. By nature, I travel a lot between Tibro and Vilhelmina and have been able to follow developments along that route and in those senders. Stores are shut down and industrial activities are closed down. This is because people do not feel that living and working in the area works. Otherwise, they wouldn't have left it. When I go there I see store windows that are nailed with plyfa records and industries that are falling apart. When I pass Lesjöfors, Tandsjöborg and so on, I see how the development has gone downwards in these areas. That's because you don't have an infrastructure that works properly. Up in Vilhelmina, where I have my roots, there was a huge industrial activity when I was young. If you go down now and look at the railway, where the saw was, you can see that the whole thing is too far away. There are 6,400 inhabitants of Vilhelmina municipality, which is 150 km long. Then you understand the situation in which that part of the country finds itself. It is as I said to the municipal councillor there a few years ago: It is a suicide mission to be a municipal councillor in an inland municipality, given the conditions that prevail.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-452	Madam President, I would like I have visited Vilhelmina and met the representatives of the municipality. I've been to many municipalities for that matter. It's tough being a councilman anywhere. For a very long time we in Sweden did not invest enough in infrastructure. Priority was given to tax reductions with job tax deductions rather than building Sweden strongly, and this is evident. It is evident in the cities, and this is evident not least in the rural areas. That is why, since we took office, we have chosen to invest more in infrastructure than ever. But it takes time to repair after years of underinvestment. 164 billion is the biggest investment ever. In addition, if we are talking about Västerbotten, we will put the investment in BK4. In the norwegian region alone, we spend billions in total on improving the carrying capacity and the safety of roads and strengthening bridges, so that trucks of up to 74 tonnes can drive there. We do this in order to benefit not least the forestry industry but also the tourism industry. I think that is absolutely crucial. If we are to cope not least with climate change in Sweden, we must ensure that everyone feels that they are on that wagon and that investments are made throughout the country. That is the government's most important priority. This is why there is an infrastructure plan that already applies to investments in main roads, on Norrbotniabanan and on the South East Link, but also on roads in Västerbotten's countryside. There's more resources ever. In this context, we must also have the power to protect road safety. As the starting point for Thomas Morell's interpellation is the speed reductions, I would like to understand that important measures to increase road safety are to set up centre rails in order to maintain or even increase speed in this way, but also in fact sometimes to reduce distances where there is a risk of serious accidents. The risk of being killed in an accident is reduced by 40 percent by lowering from 90 to 80 kilometers per hour. Then let's remember that the time limit only increases by 50 seconds per mile. That is why I think that we should accept, on shorter commuting routes, that this type of effort should be made, but also others. Then, of course, the reason why we can do this is because we see the need for a strong society and for common tax resources to make investments throughout the country, not least in infrastructure. Thomas Morell belongs to a party, the Swedish Democrats, who want to form a government or act together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, who have systematically failed to invest in infrastructure and have also chosen to prioritise tax cuts over investments. Basically, however, that question comes back. How does Thomas Morell imagine that we will be able to improve the quality of roads in the future when the parties he chooses to cooperate with are the same parties that for a very long time failed to make investments? We must ensure that we have good quality on the Swedish road network, and we must ensure that the resources we spend on improving road maintenance also go to road maintenance. The Government has recently given a commission to the Finnish Transport Administration to properly review the costs of building and maintaining roads. This together with the fact that we invest in climate change and electrification of the roads and expand the railways, shipping and other sustainable transport means that Sweden has the opportunity to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country and a country where we can travel safely and safely throughout the country. That is my vision, and that is what we are working to achieve.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-458	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Speed reductions are usually due to the fact that the road is in too bad condition. This is the fundamental problem. Roads do not comply with the standards that can reasonably be requested in relation to the volume of traffic. This has consequences for the ability to operate around the country. One minute is just as much worth for those living in the countryside as for those who, for example, are going by the high-speed train between Stockholm and Malmö. It becomes a bit crazy when you value the time that travelers have to spend differently depending on where they go. In terms of investment in infrastructure: 164 billion is a huge amount of money. But it's still too little to restore what's damaged in the road network. It is not just about potholes, putting in the roadway and such things, but it can also be many other things, such as winter road maintenance. I sat today in the morning talking to a skier who was stuck. He did not drive up in Västernorrland, where they have had so much snow, but it was down here in southern Sweden. Maintenance was not good enough for the road to be navigable. This also has consequences for industrial activities. When the goods transported on the road do not arrive at the consignee in time, it affects our industrial production. Therefore, it is so furiously important that we invest in maintaining a robust road infrastructure, so that we ensure production and housing throughout Sweden, whether we are talking about Västerbotten, Småland, Skaraborg or any other part of the country. Here the government has a lot to do, even if it is invested 164 billion.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-463	Madam President, I would like Yes, the government has a lot to do here – because the parties that Thomas Morell claims to want to cooperate with failed to invest in road infrastructure for a long time. They put tax cuts ahead of what builds society strongly. Since we took office, we have made record investments in infrastructure, not only on the railways but also on roads and other areas. We are now about to work on future national plans, where it is about increasing the standard and road safety on the roads but perhaps also electrifying, so that we can get electric roads or charging infrastructure that allows us to manage the transition to sustainability, about building even more rail, so that more goods can travel by rail but also so that more people – we are over 10 million in Sweden nowadays – can have the opportunity to travel climate smart to work or to friends, and not least about investing in developing our ports and shipping, so that we can relieve the pressure on the roads as more goods go on rail or with shipping. That's how Infrastructure Sweden is connected. Basically, this is determined by how much money you are willing to invest. The Swedish democrats will eventually have to show the cards and say in what way they want to protect the investments on roads that Thomas Morell claims to stand for. So far, the Swedish Democrats have chosen to cooperate with parties that did not want to give priority to building Sweden strongly, but instead prioritised to invest in tax cuts. I want Sweden to be a country that invests even more in infrastructure. We are a small export-dependent industrial country, but we are a large country geographically, and we need good communications throughout the country. It is at least as much worth earning minutes in rural areas as in the big city, and it is above all very worth showing that we are making investments throughout the country, so that we stick together and not populistly trying to widen gaps or point to differences but solving this societal challenge together. That's my vision.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-467	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me when I judge that the railway between Umeå and Luleå will be completed. As early as 2004, the Social Democratic Government established the then Banverket's proposal for a future railway plan with the funds for a first stage on the Norrbotnia Line. N is the bourgeois government assumed in 2006 they chose to stop the project. The Alliance government has on two occasions decided on new national plans without allocating funds in either of these for further planning, planning or construction of the Norrbotnia Line.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-468	According to the January Agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, there will be a further expansion of the railways in northern Sweden, and the planning for building the Norrbotnia Line as a whole will be intensified. We see a positive development in northern Sweden, with extensive investments. Operating transport infrastructure is an important factor in improving the conditions for jobs, regional development, accessibility and sustainable growth throughout the country. The R legation is carrying out extensive investments in the transport infrastructure in northern Sweden. These include Ostkustbanan, Malmbanan and not least Norrbotniabanan. This government has made it clear that Norrbotniabanan is a strategically important investment in contributing to the government's goal of both higher employment and reduced environmental and climate impact. Work has now begun to develop a new national plan. The Government intends to submit an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag in spring 2021 with proposals for a financial framework for the upcoming planning period. Continued expansion of Norrbotniabanan will be handled within the upcoming process.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-471	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me begin by saying to anyone who might listen to this that our Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is possibly one of the government's most skilful debaters – and is also a very nice person, I might add. That is why it will be very exciting to hear, Madam President, how the Minister for Infrastructure will try to explain that it has been six years since the government took office and still not a single meter of railway rail is laid in Norrbotniabanan's track position. Having said that, I would like to add to the history expressed by the Minister in his reply. After the 2014 elections, a Social Democratic-led government took office. It had been promised before the election that as soon as the election had been won the rails would come down the hill the day after the election victory. I think that we all understood that would not happen for many reasons of explanation. It's hard to start so quickly. But nothing happened in four years. It was an election campaign again in 2018, as it is every four years, Madam President. Once again, not a meter of railway tracks were laid. Nothing was done, and nothing was started. The government continued to promise the same thing that was promised in the election campaign before, four years earlier. If they could just sit there, the rails would come down the day after the election was won. The government was allowed to remain in office, on possibly different grounds than the government might have intended. Nevertheless, the government remained in place. It's been two years. We have had a lot of promises from a variety of Social Democratic ministers. It's important, and it's going to be built rail and so on. I was there just a few days ago to see what it really looked like in the area. I do not know when Tomas Eneroth was last there himself, Madam President. But there are some tractors, and you cut down some trees. This is about what has happened since the Prime Minister went there two years ago and cut ties just before the election movement. There's still no sign on the slopes. To this the Swedish Transport Administration has now gone out and said that they see difficulties with this, on the grounds that I highlighted in the election movement. If you promise to build a lot of infrastructure in a lot of places without having money, nothing will likely be built. That's what the Finnish Transport Administration is now saying. They need money if they're going to build any railroad. This government has presented a lot of fine words about how important Norrland is, all that needs to be done and that this railway is a priority. But no railway is being built, Madam President. It does not matter how many fine words are said in this House. There's no railway building. You've managed to raise the gas tax. You've raised the diesel tax. You've raised the vehicle tax. You've reduced the travel allowance. You've introduced airline taxes. I could stand here and hold on forever, but the clock is ticking down. You have sent up all possible treasures from a distance up to us in Norrland. You've made life harder. Everything that the Minister of Infrastructure so nicely told about that will allow the whole country to flourish has been effectively made difficult with taxes from a distance. That's what we have plenty of in Norrland. There are many talented and enterprising entrepreneurs. There's a lot of natural resources. There are many conditions for building growth. This government has chosen to put penal taxes at a distance and has not laid a single meter of railway. When will the railways arrive, Madam President? Perhaps the Minister for Infrastructure could tell you here. Will there again be an election promise in the next election movement, followed by that you come and cut several bands without building any railway?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-481	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl, for both the beautiful words and the praise! Let me repay you. He is both a good rhetoric and fun to debate with, because enough is about rhetoric. I think Edward Riedl knows, but perhaps not everyone who follows the debate knows that when you decide on infrastructure, you do so in four-year cycles with something called a national plan. In fact, it is preceded by an infrastructure bill. When we had a change of government in 2014, Anna Johansson, the Minister of Infrastructure at the time, developed an infrastructure bill that contained SEK 100 billion more than the bourgeois government had for infrastructure. This created the conditions in 2016 to be able to develop a national plan and give information about Norrbotniabanan. It was done in 2018. It followed that in 2018 we could say: Now the Norrbotnia Line will be built. During this time, we also increased the possibility. We changed the rules that applied during the time the Moderates ruled this country. Projects north of Stockholm were not allowed to apply for EU funding. Actually, it was. Where you were north of Stockholm, you were not allowed to apply for EU funding for the TNT corridor and infrastructure projects. We changed that. I suppose it's reasonable for the whole country to benefit. This means that we have now worked with EU funds, among other things, on both funding and planning precisely for Norrbotniabanan. It is there and will now also be intensified in the planning. This means that resources have been developed, the work will start and the planning will continue. In a Norrland that is currently the growth centre for Sweden, it is particularly important. More than SEK 1,000 billion will be invested if we add up LKAB, Hybrid, Northland and other investments. It is a region that is currently growing both in terms of population and in terms of jobs. This is happening not least as a result of the policy that we have pursued. No one should be mistaken at my level of ambition when it comes to the Norrbotnia Line. I want it to be built even faster. D one has to get in place. But I also think that Edward Riedl should reflect on the fact that right now it would have been built if the Moderates hadn't stopped the project. It is about the construction time that would have been. We might have stood right now – maybe even me and Edward Riedl – and cut the band and opened the Norrbotnia Line in its full length along the Norrland coast. Think of the importance it would have had for the continued establishment of Northland or the recruitment of labour. Think of the incredible importance it would have had to be able to relieve the E4 by sending more goods on the railway, or for that matter to be able to ensure that the labour market region in Norrland had been enlarged if you had had the commuting possibilities with good and fast trains along the Norrland coast. But in 2006 the Moderates and the rest of the alliance government chose something quite different. Job tax deductions and other tax cuts were more important, and Norrbotniabanan was removed from the list. It had been built by now. I wonder how Edward Riedl really feels and whether he reflects on the fact that his own party has made sure that it did not happen. Our ambition is clear. Norrbotniabanan will be built. We are working not least now to see how we can intensify it so that we can speed up work on building the Norrbotnia Line. It's important. And it is becoming increasingly important when we see both population growth in Norrland and, not least, the growth that is taking place with large and important sustainable investments. So let's keep working, all of us who want the Norrbotnia Line in place! But let us also hope that we now have an opposition which, in the event of an election win, would not tear up the decisions but which sees the need to invest in sustainable infrastructure throughout the country, not least in Norrland, with a Norrbotnia track in its full length. Sweden needs that.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-492	Madam President, I would like This is what I informed the listeners about from the beginning: that it sounds very good. Four minutes have passed, and the Minister for Infrastructure has effectively avoided answering why in six years this government has not been able to build a single meter of railway rails while it would have built this whole section of eight if the alliance government had done differently. I'm having a hard time with that math. It is perhaps more clear in the head of the Minister for Infrastructure than it is in my head how it should have been done, but it is at least interesting. What was the problem then, and what is the problem now, is that it costs money to build a railway. That is what the Minister's own authority is now trying to inform the government of. They say it costs money. If you want to build a railway, we need money for this. I have also pointed this out, Madam President, during several electoral movements with the Minister's party colleagues. I've been trying to point out that you need money if you're going to build a railroad. But they have said that the will is enough and that the day after the elections will be built. The problem is that this will without money has resulted in zero meters of railway rail. It has, on the other hand, resulted in increased petrol tax, increased flight tax, increased diesel tax, increased vehicle tax, reduced travel tax and a lot of other things – taxation of distance. Again, I share the Minister's view of how positive things are bursting and happening in Norrland. The problem is that this government is doing everything it can to tax distance, and that's what we have most of up in the part of the country I come from. That is why the Minister's rhetoric is not connected, Madam President. One cannot claim to protect and want to develop a country and then do everything possible to target all the taxes on this particular country with surgical precision. Because that is what has been done, Madam President. All taxes from a distance have been raised by this government. It continues even after this year's turn, and looks at further deterioration. With regard to what was the promise in the electoral movement, the answer every time I have debated with the Socialist colleagues of the Minister has been that you will increase petrol taxes and diesel taxes and make these deteriorations to use the money and build rail up here with us. The problem is that we have received six years of fines but zero meters of rail. That math is bad for the people who come from the part of the country that I come from. So you have to take all the costs without getting the benefits you were promised. It doesn't matter how much the Minister stands in this Chamber with fine snarlings and words, because it is still in the way that no railway is fixed. Two and a half years ago, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven came up and opened the building. I'd like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure if he's been there looking for what happened after the band was cut. I have some pictures in my mobile phone if the minister wants to see; I went skiing there just a week ago. There's nothing. There are some machines there, and some trees have been cut down. I don't know if the string was still in the trees, but maybe I'll check it out the next time I go skiing. But there is no railway, Madam President. My question to the Minister, whom he has not answered, is: when does the Minister judge that this railway is ready? And when does he think the first meter of railway will be laid? Will it be right after the next election again?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-501	Madam President, I would like Let me first respond to this. I'm a little surprised, or really I'm not surprised. Nevertheless, we are living at a time when the climate issue is at its hottest and when the world's experts are talking about the importance of having to cope with climate change. It is possibly politicians like Bolsonaro, Trump and sometimes some Swedish democrats in Sweden who do not understand the climate issue. I am therefore a little concerned when Edward Riedl pulls up the petrol tax and the airline tax. Seriously, these are taxes that are being introduced to redirect travel. It is taxes that we impose in order to meet the climate challenge. We are now working intensively both on electrifying the vehicle fleet and on biofuels. Even on aviation, it is biofuels and, for that matter, electric flights in the long term. That's how we're gonna get through the transition. I am aware, and I think it is tragic, that the Moderates have now joined the Swedish Democrats' climate policy in a few stages. It reduces funding for climate action and proposes a reduction in the tax on petrol instead of investment in infrastructure. But it is clear that resources are fundamentally crucial, and the starting point is that the Norrbotnia Line should be built as soon as possible. I think it's incredibly important. It is an important signal not only to Norrland but to the whole of Sweden. That is why this is also absolutely crucial in the basis for our decision, not least now in view of the orientation plan. But the government has been clear, and resources are allocated and are in place for the construction of a Norrbotnia track. In the next national plan, we will have to continue to see how the whole route can be financed. We are working not least on finding EU funding. In fact, Sweden has sometimes been bad at picking up money from the EU we pay large and expensive fees to. That is one of the reasons why, in my proposal, we changed our view of EU funding and ensured that infrastructure projects in northern Sweden can also benefit from EU funds. This means that we can now have an increased opportunity to speed up construction and increase funding. When it comes to the Finnish Transport Administration's documentation, it may be important to know for those who do not know how the process works that the agency is asked to see what happens if it receives 20 per cent more and 20 per cent less respectively. It is a kind of sensitivity analysis that the work provides as a basis for the government's work on infrastructure planning. And of course, if you get 20% less, you can see it. But this is a good basis to have, for we are living in troubled economic times. Large resources are added, not least, to pandemic measures. But the government's starting point is that we should invest more in infrastructure. We need to do so in order to keep the country together, improve the quality of our roads and ensure that climate requirements are met. It is precisely the absence of infrastructure investments that becomes the major concern. Norrbotniabanan would have been built if this had not been demolished. Then I can be as impatient as I know that Edward Riedl is – and I appreciate that – when it comes to the construction not getting started in all parts and to the full. That is the case with infrastructure. There is a lot of planning, there are detailed plans, there are appeals and there are procurements. No one wants to see a faster roll-out of infrastructure than I do, but on the other hand, we should also be careful and save taxpayers' money so that we do this in the most efficient and best way. Let me nevertheless state that the Norrbotnia Line is an incredibly important national venture. It is important in Norrbotten, for the region, but it is also important nationally. It represents a radical opportunity to improve the conditions for the transfer of more goods by rail and passenger transport by rail. But it also means improved conditions to relieve the E4 and thus improve road safety. Let us jointly ensure that the Norrbotnia Line is built as soon as possible! I therefore hope that the Moderates can also give priority to it in the future.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-512	Madam President, I would like Again, no answers have been delivered to what I asked for. There is no date for when this really gets started, but we get these cut bands and nothing more. Let me be clear about environmental and climate policy. I think it is a pity that we have the kind of conflict we have. For what this government, which claims to be protecting the environment and climate, does is to shut down nuclear power and ensure that we instead start burning oil – with fossil fuels. That is what must now be used instead. That, Madam President, seems to me to be a bad environmental policy. What we should do, and what the Moderates are pushing, to make the transition, electrify the fleet of vehicles, and so on, is to expand nuclear power. We need to make sure that there is less of fossil fuels, which are indirectly getting into the idea of the electric cars that are coming out increasingly. It is said here that the Moderates would have lower climate ambitions, but it is rather the opposite. We have higher climate ambitions, and we have a more realistic environmental and climate policy. What the Minister also does not say is that this government wants to send the entire bill for the conversion to hardworking people around our country who depend on the car to get to and from work, drive their children to various activities, go and take care of their old mother at home and so on. That's what the government does. You send the entire bill out to these people instead of making sure that together we do good and reasonable things. Once again, the Minister for Infrastructure and I have had a debate on Norrbotniabanan. There's been a few now. I note what I have been saying for six years, namely that the same thing has now failed all the time: if there is no money allocated to the construction of rail, there will be no railway built. That is the problem and nothing else. Thank you for a good debate.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-519	Madam President, I would like There's money. Money exists to an extent that we have never seen, not least to the Norrbotnia Line, but also to infrastructure throughout the country. In fact, it is 100 billion more than what was a fact when we had a bourgeois government. This means that we are investing more than ever in infrastructure. Even more will be needed in the future. It is in order for us to be able to keep this country together, strengthen competitiveness and be able to improve the conditions for people to live and live throughout the country. That's why the Norrbotnia Line – decided by the government, established by the Riksdag – and also the South East Link and for that matter all other infrastructure projects. This is how we build a strong Sweden. That, then, the environmental and climate commitment of the Moderates finally coincides on a single issue of nuclear power is the irony of fate. If you are in the Umeå area trying to turn over to Finland, you will see one of their major billion-dollar investments, a nuclear power plant that has been there for a very long time and has not yet started. Olkiluoto is still one of the most expensive investments made in nuclear power but is lined with heavy costs. After all, almost no one believes that nuclear power is the energy of the future. Few investments are made and they are phased out in large parts of Europe. We're a country that exports electricity. We are a country that invests in renewable electricity. We are a country that has chosen to have an energy agreement in broad political consensus, where we say: let the market decide! The market then invests in wind, in sun, in hydropower and in other sources of power – and for that matter in efficiency. This means that Sweden sometimes exports more electricity than would be required to electrify the entire transport sector. In that sense, I am optimistic. We create confidence in the future and opportunities to meet climate requirements with our progressive climate and environmental policies.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-523	Madam President, I would like Malin Höglund has asked me several questions about the traffic situation for the inhabitants of northern Dalarna and Mora airport. Sweden is a sparsely populated country with long distances. This means that aviation plays an important role in the transport system in terms of long-distance travel and transport. At the same time, aviation has a significant environmental and climate impact to reduce. Flying, like other modes of transport, will contribute to the goal of Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for assessing the needs of and deciding on public service obligations, with the outcome of the transport policy objectives set by Parliament, and for contracting transport policy-driven air traffic. However, in view of the ongoing pandemic, the Government has decided in 2020 on a temporary public service obligation for certain routes to Norrland and Gotland. In addition, on 22 December 2020 the Government has commissioned the Finnish Transport Administration to negotiate and conclude agreements on temporary contingency airports until 28 February 2021, including Mora-Siljan Airport. The government has high ambitions for the Swedish railways. After years of underinvestment in Swedish infrastructure, the Government decided in 2018 on a national plan for transport infrastructure that involves an investment of over SEK 700 billion for investments throughout the country. Among other things, it is the largest railway investment in modern times with extensive new investments but also a record increase in railway maintenance. In 2020, further efforts have been made on the railways, in line with the Government's budget proposal and additional amending budget. Following a proposal in the budget proposal for 2021, the Government will carry out additional railway maintenance investments of SEK 500 million per year during the period 2021 – 2023. For the government, measures for climate-smart travel will continue to be a priority by strengthening railway conditions. The Government has allocated SEK 16.3 billion in a national load-bearing plan, including measures to increase the load-bearing capacity of the road network to the BK4 load-bearing class. The road network in Dalarna is also covered by these measures. Finally, I would like to mention that the Government has started work on developing a new national plan for the development of the transport system and intends to present an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag in spring 2021.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-527	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Tomas for the answer, although I would of course have liked another answer because I am from Mora. It is a good thing that it is being invested in rail. We need to have several different transport modes in Dalarna. When questions are asked today about modes of transport, people answer that they want to travel by train, but the line from Mora to Stockholm is far too long. At least four hours to get from Mora to Stockholm is far too long. Four hours will apply if there are no redevelopments of the runway or other delays, as is often the case. For most of the autumn it has taken six to seven hours to get from Mora to Stockholm. I know that from my own experience. We need to switch to more sustainable travel, but we're not going to stop travelling on flights, are we? Why don't we switch to more sustainable fuels? There is ongoing transformation work for more sustainable journeys with electric aircraft and sustainable fuels. That's good. Progress is progressing. Traffic obligations on the Mora – Arlanda route have been discussed for a long time. When you cannot get to Stockholm from Mora fast enough by train, a working flight is necessary. It would make it very much easier for Mora residents, Madam President, as well as for our neighbouring municipalities, the tourism industry and companies, if public service obligations were imposed on the Sälen– Mora– Arlanda route. Communication between Mora and Stockholm has been very important for a long time. The government itself opens up an opportunity for companies flying from Sveg to Stockholm to stop landing in Mora, but without compensation. There is an EU rule, Madam President, which says that air traffic can be procured if the journey time by train exceeds three hours. The Finnish Transport Agency does not specify and apply the EU regulations in three hours, but in Sweden the Swedish Agency says that at least four hours should apply. Mora is thus receiving less communications than the rest of Europe. The government should secure the Mora – Arlanda route through public service obligations, where Sälen is included. I would like the Minister to respond to this in his next speech. If all of Sweden is to be able to live, we need good roads for travel by bus or car and train trips that work according to schedule, but also a flight if we want to get tourists and visitors to our country in the future. Is the Minister going to act on service obligations on the route or not?
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-535	Madam President, I would like I thank Malin Höglund for the interpellation. I have discussed flights both in Mora and in Dalarna several times. I have not least met the excellent municipal councillor Anna Hed, Lennart Sohlberg and others who work intensively to strengthen Mora's conditions for better connections. I really appreciate that commitment – I'd like to say that anyway. I recently visited Dalarna. This summer, just before we got new travel restrictions, we could go for a ride, and then we visited Dalabanan and looked at the rearmament that is being done there precisely to shorten travel times. I also met politicians and representatives of the Dalarna Region to discuss which priorities are most important in the future. It is, as Malin Höglund says, about securing flight capacity – both for the tourism industry, of course, and for good and fast connections out in the world's export markets. It is about railway rehabilitation, not least, but also about road quality. These are the points that I am now taking with me in the work we have on the next national plan. Already in the former, we made extensive investments in Dalarna, and not least with BK4 we are now making major efforts to increase the carrying capacity and torches safety in the roads. After all, when it comes to aviation, the whole country and the whole world have suffered a pandemic. Last spring we had a situation where, as I think the Swedish Transport Administration wrote in a report, virtually all regular flights between countries had ceased. That's the way it is. We see in Swedavia's statistics on airports, which came the other day, that 90% has disappeared. We see it at regional airports. That is why we, as the government, have had to provide a great deal of resources both to state airports and to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, but also to regional airports. These are both general and specific state subsidies. I took the somewhat unusual initiative of also introducing what we call a public service obligation. We opened up public service obligations to Norrland and Gotland precisely because during a pandemic, when commercial aviation is not there, we must ensure that we are able to manage fast connections. Now, just before Christmas, we also decided to extend this to temporary standby airports, where Mora is included, in order to ensure that, not least in view of the burden of health care, we are able to carry out rapid transport by ambulance flights or other operations. This, if anything, shows how important the flight is. I usually say that the flight is needed but I have to change. I'm sure that insight will have to come when we talk about transport policy in the future. The flight is important, not only in Dalarna, in Norrland or on Gotland, but for the whole country and not least for the opportunity to reach out on the world's export markets. But at the same time as we say this, we also mean that aircraft must change, with biofuels and with reduction obligations, which we are now looking at will become applicable to aviation in the future. Biofuels are mixed in and thus reduced the climate impact of aviation. The exciting development of electrification is also important. I think there are also some airports in Dalarna – there are three airports in Dalarna – looking at the possibility of working with electric flights in the future. If this were to happen, we would create a completely different type of structure for aviation. After all, the government has provided funds for investments in electric aircraft development in Sweden. The starting point is, of course, that we will listen to the views of representatives of Dalarna and carry them with us in the work on the National Plan and continue to look at the need for emergency airports and how the traffic site will develop in the future in Sweden, when we have introduced a public service obligation.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-544	Madam President, I would like Dalarna is an important county located in the middle of Sweden and is very dependent on competence. When we had the functioning airport Mora-Siljan open, important expertise was flown into Mora and the surrounding area. When Mora had this functioning traffic, it was also of great benefit to companies, to the tourism industry and to our residents, who needed to make trips, as well as to the municipalities around. If you look at statistics you can see that it was Malung-Sälens municipality that flew most from the airport. This also affects growth, of course. Mora and many other municipalities are ranked every year by the business community, and Mora is constantly at the bottom of infrastructure and accessibility, unfortunately. In fact, we're among the worst in the country. The lack of air transport is one of the major causes. In Torsby and Hagfors there are airports with public service obligations. These municipalities have a distance to Stockholm which is in parity with Moras. They have functioning airports, but not Mora. The public service obligations granted to these airports were taken into account by industry. Have the Social Democrats changed their view here? The whole country is supposed to live. After the pandemic, all decisions that go in the direction of growth will be needed. What is your answer to this, Tomas Eneroth? Here you give to one but not to the other.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-550	Madam President, I would like I am not surprised by what Malin Höglund brings up, but it may also be that she is misinformed. The traffic obligation for Torsby and Hagfors was introduced by a bourgeois government at one time, and it was done in a situation where they wanted to find the conditions for that part of Värmland to maintain flights. There we now have a regulatory framework that actually talks about the conditions for the procurement of public service obligations. The challenge in Mora, which we have discussed several times with representatives of Mora, is that there must be a basis for air traffic as well. As strong as the municipality is, with important companies, there has obviously not been a bearing capacity for commercial aviation. The flight that there was flew from Sveg, landed in Mora and flew on. The Falun District Court ruled that it was illegal because the company that flew picked out money from both the state and Mora municipality. In such a situation, the State cannot finance this. Then we have an EU regulatory framework to deal with. Here, in fact, representatives of Mora Municipality have been so proactive that they have been down in the EU talking to the Commission and trying to understand the situation. This is something that we in the government have also worked on, in terms of the conditions for the future development of the public service obligations. Now that the government has been working on a review of the regional airport structure, an initiative that I have taken, it is against the background of ensuring that we have well-functioning air links while at the same time looking at how aviation will cope with the necessary change. It is about biofuels, so these conditions must be in place, and of course also about electrification. I understand that Malin Höglund, as a moderate, also wants to say something about employment policy. In this respect, however, we note that it is under social democratic governments that we have managed to repress unemployment, increase employment and ensure that infrastructure investments can also be made throughout the country. We recently had a debate in this House in which we found that in 2006 the bourgeois government chose, as the first initiative, to remove important infrastructure investments instead of raising taxes. The effect was high indebtedness, increased public debt and record unemployment. We have made sure that there has been a different development. We have ensured that employment in Sweden continues to be among the highest in Europe. In addition, we have ensured continued control of public finances with low public debt, while at the same time we can afford and have room to invest. It is against this background that I 2018 was able to present National plan with important investments in infrastructure also in Dalarna. In the discussion that is now ongoing – there Malin Höglund is warmly welcome together with many other representatives of Dalarna – it is about how we will invest in the future. Where are the choices in terms of maintaining road quality and the quality of the existing infrastructure while at the same time having the time, advice and space to invest in new ones? Sweden needs to invest more in infrastructure, for the sake of business – no doubt about it – for the sake of jobs, to keep the country together and also for the sake of the climate. Here, unfortunately, the Moderates have now begun to approach the Swedish Democrats' climate and environmental policies. I regret that, because Sweden may have the opportunity to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country if we are also able to change the transport system. That's why we're talking electric aviation, biofuels, electrification of roads and investment in railways. This is how Sweden will cope with this transition. It can't handle the market on its own. Political decisions are needed, and courage is needed. But we now also have industries and industry that see this. I can only regret that the Moderates do not see the change that the aviation industry, the railway industry or the automotive industry sees.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-558	Madam President, I would like It is exciting that the Social Democrats always come to the conclusion that we are similar to the Swedish Democrats in one or the other. But at least it's the flight I'm passionate about as Morabo and former mayor. Now we've been off the air for two years. We have train communications that we can't trust. Local residents and entrepreneurs who are flying from Arlanda Airport or have an early meeting in Stockholm dare not take the chance to take the early morning train from Mora station; instead, they take the car. In an article in Mora Tidning on 10 November 2020 you can read that Tomas Eneroth answers questions from Mora Municipality about aviation. The answer states that air traffic has been reduced due to the Corona virus and that there is no need to impose public service obligations on the route. In Mora, politics, companies and residents have hoped to save Mora airport through a proposal for a new route that would operate in Sälen– Mora– Arlanda. For several years, Mora has been courting the government – you know that – about providing the airport with public service obligations. Does Tomas Eneroth mean that the door is completely closed to us who live in the north of Dalarna? I would like to say right now: thank you for the debate.
i-ab9a9ba4e5964425-564	Madam President, I would like I do not know what the context is and how the quote in the newspaper is, but the public service obligations that Parliament has supported, including the Moderates, include air traffic to Norrland and to Gotland. In this context, Mora is not included. I think that's what I answered. However, we have recently taken the initiative – we did so just before Christmas – to introduce the conditions for temporary contingency airports. As a result, Mora airport is actually currently open, if I am properly informed. Contingency airports are an important element. To those who do not know it and who listen to the debate, I can say that a standby airport means that we ensure that there are people on the ground so that ambulance flights, for example, can land. At this stage, with an extensive spread of infection in the country, when not least the healthcare system in Dalarna is heavily burdened by a lot of people who are infected – so it is also in other parts – we can end up in a situation where we have to transport for example patients, staff or, for that matter, medical materials quickly. Not least under the prevailing weather conditions, I think everyone realises how important it is to be able to make fast transport in such a situation. That is why we now have a total of 26, 27 or 28 standby airports, I think. There's never been that many. The government is now going in, because the market is not doing this. The plane is hit hard. Here I think we need to reason. The Moderates and my party The Social Democrats – all of us in Sweden – must reflect on what the responsibility of the state is when the market does not work. My starting point is probably that the state must take greater responsibility. I remember when Nexchet went bankrupt. All of a sudden, five towns were completely unaircrafted. Then the state had to go in and take that responsibility. It's gonna cost money. It may mean some taxes somewhere, but I am prepared to pay it to ensure good communications throughout the country.
