i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-18	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to discuss one of the world's most unknown organisations, but perhaps also one of the more important international organisations that exist, namely the Interparliamentary Union. The organisation was founded in 1889, the same year that my political party was founded, that is, an eternity ago. Today it has 173 different parliaments as members. When the IPU was founded, the very aim was to try to bring about a peaceful dispute settlement arena – to ensure that wars and conflicts could be resolved through arbitration rather than through weapons. The IPU has also played a major role in the formation of the League of Nations and the United Nations, but also in many of the international legal institutes that we have today around the world. We recently had a big meeting with the IPU. IPU has two major international meetings each year – a spring and an autumn meeting. We had our Spring Day just a week ago. It discussed the pandemic and its effects on democracies and on the work of parliaments. It also discussed the United Nations' sustainability objectives and how parliaments around the world could work with them. On the initiative of the Swedish IPU delegation Cecilia Widegren, it was also decided to send a delegation to Venezuela to study how parliamentarians are treated there. In this context, I can point out that in many debates here in the Swedish Parliament there are usually a little hard islets. You usually raise your voice, and you usually criticize each other. I like to criticise the opposition; it gives me special pleasure and pleasure. But here I have searched my heart forward and backward, and I find absolutely nothing I can criticise my parliamentary colleagues for. In fact, I am filled with admiration and respect for the work of the chairman of the Swedish IPU delegation Cecilia Widegren, moderate. She does a very good job for Sweden and for the Swedish Parliament in this context. No criticism whatsoever, that is! I myself was elected to the Committee on Democracy and Human Rights at the last conference, and I look forward to working on these issues in this context. In the Foreign Affairs Committee and in other contexts, there is sometimes a discussion about the IPU, and I can understand that discussion. The interparliamentary union looks much like the world does at large, and it is only to be noted that when you see China and, above all, when you see representatives of Hafiz al-Asad-Assad, Syria, you get upset in many contexts. However, it should also be noted that the IPU is one of the few forums where the Palestinian and Israeli parliaments meet. It can also be noted that seminars on LGBTQ rights have been held at the Persian Gulf, among other events by the IPU. So there is a democratic exchange that I think is worth a lot. There are sometimes calls for Sweden to leave the IPU. I think it is as crazy as putting forward demands for Sweden to leave the United Nations. The IPU is one of the few arenas where everyone talks to each other. We don't all like each other, but it is extremely important for democracy and the global conversation that the IPU exists. I therefore support the proposal to add the report to the file.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-29	Madam President, I would like We live in strange times, to say the least. The longing for normality, that is, what it was like before the pandemic, is great. At the same time, there are constant mutations and spread of infection locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. Madam President, I would like Rather, we are moving towards the new normal. What we do here at home affects us here, and we are affected by what is happening over there. Today, the House is to decide on Parliament's interparliamentary work – the international work. It is about the importance of cooperation between peoples, people's representatives, countries and continents. And what can be clearer at a time like this when there is a pandemic than the importance of dialogue, dialogue and cooperation? The spread of infection is affected locally by what is happening here and what is happening far away. The connections are clear. The global crises are by no means new, but it is clear that they are here to stay in the times of globalisation. Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of a unanimous committee's proposal in the report on Sweden's international cooperation. I would also like to express a great deal of thanks for Dag Larsson's commitment as Vice-President and for his words here in the speaker's chair. Global crises are by no means new, but events, consequences, intensity and time intervals are changing rapidly. In order to deal with this, we urgently need to have the up-to-date international cooperation. They're crucial for this to work. We have challenges here at home such as insecurity, security, trade flows, job opportunities and education. All of this is strongly intertwined with our international collaborations in order for everyday life to work in general, and above all in crises. Then things have to work. Sweden is well intertwined with other countries. Only the index of Swedish trade with other countries represents as much as 80 per cent of our gross domestic product, which makes Sweden one of the most trade-dependent countries. For a small country far up in the cold north, good relations, relationships and developing, well-happy collaborations are required. At the bottom of the story, it is about Nordic cooperation, and we are also using it in the parliamentary work. European cooperation is crucial in order to be able, on the international stage, to lubricate the multilateral organisations and have them intertwined to solve the everyday Swedish challenges. Thanks to good relations and trade flows, we can now afford prosperity. We work for better quality, and we make sure to work to graze care debts and combat insecurity and crime. It remains to work even more for the continued international cooperation to make the vital everyday foundations work. Madam President, I would like Already over 125 years ago, Swedish rich politicians began to cooperate with other national parliaments. The interparliamentary union, as Mrs Larsson said, is the parliamentary dimension of the United Nations. The IPU comprises 179 countries and 46 000 parliamentarians. Some are chosen, and others are not selected. Some represent democracies and other non-democrats. Sweden is strongly committed and driven, because we believe that the instrument of dialogue is so important, even with those we do not think as it is. It is through dialogue that we achieve success in terms of increased human rights, increased democratisation, strong legally secure states and increased female and youthful representation in order to have a stronger future. Madam President, I would like In times of increased polarisation, extremism, nationalism, insecurity and imbalances, the challenges are multiple. But let me point out a couple who have a special position and on which we clearly focus in the interparliamentary work. First of all, it is a question of democratisation. We live at a time when the values of democracy are being exposed and questioned in a way that we have not previously felt. It calls into question the equal value of people, the basic principle of our involvement in this House. Then we must shift the strategy and cooperate more in order to achieve a completely different development. President Biden's collection, Summit for Democracy, is a clear signal that even big brother in the West takes this very seriously. The reform of multilateral organisations in order for them to function properly in modern times is absolutely crucial, not least in times of crisis. There we can question the cold ideas of sovereignty, which are growing stronger and are far too many today, versus international cooperation. These are those who believe in internationalisation versus those who want more multilateralism. Right now covid-19 places completely new demands on international cooperation. It is about global health issues, climate change, increased corruption and reduced openness and transparency. It is clear that none of these issues can be dealt with in isolation. Everyone needs to sit around the table in order for us to deliver on these challenges. It requires collaborations where no one is left out and everyone is allowed to join. That is why we are also working in the interparliamentary work for universal membership, with everyone around the table and dialogue on the ground. But it is not just this kind of challenge that requires cooperation. The Chinese and Russian exercise of power in various respects is, of course, included in the perspective. We want to compete with China, which has a strong position, to cooperate wherever possible, but above all to have confrontation with China and Russia where it is absolutely necessary, for example in terms of human rights. Sweden's role in the world should be realistic but with a clear future agenda. This is particularly true of the major geopolitical changes that are taking place. Through international cooperation such as the parliamentary ones, we are laying the carpet for the future. The dialogue shall be the instrument. Sweden is dependent, and this dependence has not decreased, but we must ensure that we play a role of importance in the collaborations where we are involved. Madam President, I would like The work of the Interparliamentary Union turned to digital democracy and developed new strategies for the dialogue forums. Over a few weeks, more than 135 countries with 1 000 parliamentarians have had a digital dialogue to discuss and overcome the pandemic and enter the next phase to start building tomorrow on the role of parliaments and the opportunities for democratisation to strengthen the future. The Charter of the United Nations starts with the 'we', the people, and it is in the times of the crisis that it is really a matter of making demands on elected representatives to live up to representing the people. Only in a few days when the pandemic struck did it make interparliamentary work to promote the role of parliaments at a time of pandemic. How to deal with legislative, budgetary and control work around the world when you cannot physically meet? The international parliamentary work has been crucial to the functioning of parliaments around us, so that we can emerge stronger from the pandemic with the opportunities of digitalisation in terms of both integrity and transparency. Madam President, I would like We see a window out there in the next phase of the pandemic. Then it's about rebooting. In particular, it concerns the need for a new climate start to tackle climate challenges as well as work on democratisation – build back better – while the reform of multilateral organisations must be relaunched, for modernisation, transparency and inclusion. Madam President, I would like As Dag Larsson said, Sweden's banner is high in terms of international parliamentary work. Sweden is one of 47 countries in the Western European Group, but Sweden represents all these countries in the highest decision-making body, the Executive Committee, where Sweden is now active for the sixth time in 130 years. Sweden is chairman of the Finance Committee, which is the second time ever. Sweden is now also a nominated member of the governing agency of the Committee on Human Rights and Democracy. For the first time, Sweden is appointed Chairman and Rapporteur for future international resolutions on future conflict resolution and peace processes, a work to be decided in March 2022 in Indonesia. The Swedish delegation had a great impact on well-developed Swedish positions together with the Nordic neighbours and Europe, who have supported the work of the historically large Assembly, the Assembly, which is the largest of all time. It met digitally with 1 000 parliamentarians gathered. Further concrete Swedish successes can be read about in the committee's unanimous report or on the Parliament's website. Working together and putting parliamentary dialogue at the heart of the uncertain times that the pandemic has created, the aim is for the Interparliamentary Union to become the multilateral organisation it can be. One should stand for solutions and not just let problems grow. It is around the tables – now digital tables – that parliamentarians from Russia, China and the West sit down. It's a very high noise level, but that's where you sit down and talk. It is precisely around these interparliamentary tables that, for example, a few weeks ago, parliamentarians from Palestine and Israel sit down and talk to each other. It's dialogue. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Swedish delegation would like to express a great deal of thanks to the Swedish Parliament, the Speaker, the Presidium of Presidents, the International Department of Parliament and the Committee Officers in several committees of the Riksdag, including the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance, for important commitments, expertise and coherent efforts made on a regular basis to make the interparliamentary work possible. For this, we all in the Swedish delegation would like to express a great, warm thank you.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-59	Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, the fight against crime is a deeply ideologically based issue. We started by having a tin can walk around on the factory floor. There we collected money for the person who became ill or unemployed. Then we built a society on that very idea: Demand your right, do your duty. Build the community with your work. And on the day you fall, we'll make sure that you land softly. The Social Democrats were created and exist to combat injustice and set people free. Few things make people as free as being insecure and exposed to crime. It is therefore quite logical that the Social Democratic Council of Uppsala, Erik Pelling, has made it its main issue to remove Gottsunda from the police list of particularly vulnerable areas. Now we see how the cooperation between the municipality and the police gives results. The criminal reports go down in Uppsala and Gottsunda. We see how Uppsala will be safer. Madam President, I would like It is not the case that the opposition needs to push the government ahead of it in order for us to take the fight against crime. Pressure's coming from inside. At the Party Congress of the Social Democrats in Gothenburg in 2017, the representatives made a decision that was bold and visionary but that was laid in quite close time: In 2024 we in Sweden will have 10 000 more police employees. Now the Social Democratic-led government has taken us halfway to that goal. It is Social Democratically led governments that have been architects of every major criminal justice reform in the area of men's violence against women. In every reform there has been a Social Democratic-led government. This has been about consent at sex, i.e. the law against trafficking, i.e. the feminism and so on. We have raised the penalties for gun crimes, which means that those caught in the city can be arrested for serious gun crimes. They're going behind bars. They can't continue their night out. They can't go home and kiss while waiting for a low sentence. Soon the government and parliament will meet, if everything goes as it should, the Social Democratic election promise that we will also tighten the penalties for violations of the knife law. Added to this is the government's 34-point programme to tackle gang crime. But the government is working on all fronts. In this committee and in this debate, we are mainly discussing how society should respond to the crimes committed. But it is up to all of us to participate in the discussion: how do we ensure that the crimes are never committed? How do we prevent crime? How do we get schools and social services to function in the best way for this purpose? How do we get a job? How do we gain confidence in the future in those who do not know it and who are on the verge of becoming delinquency? Madam President, I would like With regard to the very important tasks ahead of us, we do not need any gravel in the machinery by means of major tax cuts. Madam President, I would like Many curves go in the right direction when it comes to crime, but there are things going in the wrong direction in our country. It's very serious. I think we're all familiar with the shootings. It's been going the wrong way for a long time. It's an A ton steamer that we're about to turn around. There have been both red and blue captains on the A ton steamer. Now we have a series of measures in place, and we see that it is about to turn around. Even if there are weeks and months coming with setbacks, the course is now set, and we will never let go of that fight. The pace must increase, and it does. Soon there will be proposals for sharp action against crime in criminal networks. Soon we'll raise the penalty for women's freedom. There are now sharp proposals for severe penalties for rape and sexual crimes. Soon, those recruiting young people for crime will face sharper opposition through severe punishment. Madam President, I would like All this will be attributed to the opposition to its own brilliance. Everyone who has a child and a car has heard the whining from the back seat: Are we not there soon? And everyone who has a child and a car has replied: We can't get there any faster because you're nagging. In the same way, a law will not be speeded up because the opposition here in Parliament is voting for us to start work to bring about legislation, when the government has already started it a long time ago. Remember this now that you will see triumphant sharing images online about how the opposition has pushed through proposals against the will of the government. It may in fact be so simple that the government is already on the ball and that the opposition is doing everything to be able to play with it as well. Madam President, I would like There are those who, in the public debate, want to make criminals the spokespersons of all those who live in the vulnerable areas of our country. As a social democrat, I will never fall into that fluke. Those who work in health care, home care and childcare are the ones who, literally, have carried us through the pandemic. They often live in vulnerable areas. They often come from outside Europe. It is when they are prevented from getting to the night pass or are awake at night because they are worried that their children will be beaten or robbed and it is when criminals are ravaged in their residential areas that I and many with me experience a great injustice. Madam President, I would like Everyone has a right to safety. There must never be different yardsticks in different residential areas in Sweden. Those who live in Gottsunda should never have to tolerate more than those who live in Djursholm. Those who live in Säffle should never feel or be insecure than those who live in Strängnäs. It is against this background that the 10,000 new police officers by 2024 will be seen. It is against this background that the government's 34-point programme against gang crime should be seen. It is against this background that all the preventive measures taken in addition to this work should be seen. In the same way as everyone who has children receives the same amount into the account each month in the form of child benefit – this applies whether you are a millionaire or if you are a low income earner and whether you live in Gottsunda or if you live in Djursholm – everyone should be equally safe. Anything else does not rhyme with a general welfare policy, and we can never be content with that. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 6.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-78	Madam President, I would like The previous speaker from the Social Democrats talked about those who have a car and children. I got kids, I got a car, I got work. And me and everyone else in the same situation, the Social Democrats now want to tax over their ears. We shall treasure more, and those who do not work shall treasure less. In fact, I believe that this is where the gravel in the machinery, which the previous Socialist speaker talked about, is: that we do not see to it that more people get into work. But that is not what this debate should be about. Instead, we're going to talk about criminal matters. I can begin by saying that the opposition, led by the Moderates, has simply had a different view from the government in as many as 19 cases. That view has gained the majority in committee and will hopefully do so in this House. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my replacement, who has been here during my parental leave and who has done a solid job in bringing about these 19 announcements. These include the criminalisation of illegal roadblocks and the strengthening of penalties for rape, sexual crimes and the violation of women's rights. These are issues that have unfortunately been raised very much in recent times. It is also interesting to see that the government has chosen, perhaps precisely because of recent actualization, to support many of the Moderate and Opposition proposals on violence in close relationships and sexual crimes. The previous speaker from the Social Democrats said that the pressure comes from within. The will of the government and the Social Democrats to do something certainly does not come from an opposition that pushes on, but comes from within the Social Democrats. He also mentioned that punishment will soon come. Soon the penalty will be raised for knife violence, for example. I think that the only time the word would fit in this context soon is when it is said that the Social Democratic Government has soon been ruling for eight years. Then you cannot stand in the pulpit of the national chamber and talk about the fact that penalties and measures against organised crime, which can be likened to domestic terrorism, will begin soon. It's way too late. Let's talk about progress. Last year we had top rankings on the number of shootings and gun violence in gang-criminal environments. Mortality continues to be very high for gun violence, and we know that blasts continue to be very high. The sexual crimes are up to very high levels, not to mention record quotations. We know that the uncertainty in Sweden is record high. I would like to describe it this way: I think that sometimes the feeling can appear that if you are in the wrong place at the wrong time you can be subjected to a very serious crime. Not least what happened at Solna Cemetery suggests this. Unprovoked, it seems, two guys were subjected to torture and assault for a whole night. If you are in the wrong place at the wrong time, you risk being subjected to very serious crime in Sweden. Of course, this does something to people. Of course, it does something about society. Of course, this also does something about cohesion in Sweden. I would not therefore say that the pressure on the Social Democrats to do something comes from within. I guess that would have started almost eight years ago. Instead, time and again, people have awakened, glanced at what the opposition says and done something like what we have said – but far too little and far too late. It is not primarily about me being upset about this; it is particularly bad for Sweden. Developments are moving in the right direction, it is said. Yes, but it can't be that Sweden will be safer thanks to French police hacking Swedish gang criminals or because Danish police lock up Swedish gang criminals. We can't have that, can we? Sweden must tackle its own problems, and the Swedish government must make proposals so that Sweden can actually lock in and listen to gang members. This is not being done, at least not to the extent that we from the Moderates and the opposition believe is needed. That is why we have said, for example, that we must ensure that participation in criminal organisations is actually criminalised. The government does not support this. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 26, paragraph 34, on participation in criminal organisations. When we received the Bråreport that the government itself ordered to see if Sweden really is exceptional, we got, hear and astounded, also confirmed that Sweden is actually exceptional. The report showed that in some countries gun violence is not used in criminal environments, but is used by knife violence. Therefore, it is incredibly important when it comes to the penalties for knife violence that the government does not do too little and too late there too. That is why the committee is also proposing an announcement on this point, and I think it is important for the government to follow up. With this, I would like to thank you for the report, which I think shows the differences that exist between the Social Democratic government option with the Green Party government partner and the other government option that now exists in Swedish politics. With that, you get something else. We must not get too little and not too late; on the contrary, we get measures that will actually change the development that we are seeing in Sweden today.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-94	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer from the Moderates describes how the Moderates' proposal provides for measures that really address crime. We agree on a lot. Much of what has been done and which you, together with us, are convinced will have an effect, we have voted in favour of together. A small example from the Moderates' proposal buffet is about criminals who set up roadblocks. I think we all went mad when we heard how to take control of the streets. Society should always have control over the streets and over every residential area. We'll never let that go. We will deal with those who try to do so. We need more cops. Now it's not that these roadblocks are polkagris-colored bars that are dropped by a man in a hat who comes out and asks who it is that comes, but it's young people who hang on the street and pose a problem. There are already penalties that can be applied today, for example for traffic offences, illegal threats and much more. What's needed is police. What is needed is for society to get there and implement existing legislation. Louise Meijer said in her speech that the Moderates have proposals that will seriously change crime, but I can already say today that the proposal on roadblocks will be completely lame. We cannot afford to vote for something that has no effect. We need to join forces now. We must ensure that the government is given the task of producing strong legislation that makes a difference. We're gonna get to grips with the gangs, but we're not gonna build our politics on fancy headlines. Our task – mine, the government, Louise Meijer, yes, our common task – is to tackle crime and make people safe. Then we need to focus on the right things.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-98	Madam President, I would like Those aren't pretty headlines the Moderates want. However, we do not want to see more headlines on how many have been shot, on new reported rapes and on how much insecurity there is. These are the headlines we want to get rid of with our policy. Gustaf Lantz and his colleagues often say that we agree. We don't agree! The Social Democrats and the Moderates do not agree on what is needed to overcome the negative developments that we see in Sweden. Roadblocks were mentioned as an example, and Gustaf Lantz said that there is already legislation dealing with traffic offences and illegal threats. This makes clear precisely the differences between the Social Democrats and the Moderates: we know that illegal roadblocks, where clans and gangs have taken over and control areas and say that at that time or that time you must not go out or that the person or person may not come in, are not dealt with by traffic crime legislation or that one could at best bring anyone for illegal threats. There is a need for effective legislation that can get to this behaviour, where the state has completely lost control. Then it cannot be said that this already exists in the form of traffic offences. That, if anything, is lame. We want gang participation to be criminalized. That's what the government says no to. We want these roadblocks to be able to be criminalised effectively. This is what the government rejects and refers to traffic crime legislation. We want wiretaps against gang members who are active to be able to do so without suspicion of crime. That's what the government says no to. I do not know what it is that the government intends to reverse developments, but it is not the policy that is being pursued right now.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-104	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer makes it sound as if I would not like the same thing as she did when it comes to being present in these areas and to prosecute those who are guilty of the kind of events that we have heard reported. The big difference is how we assess the craft and the way there. I think Louise Meijer should have a lot of time to be out and meet with the police and those concerned now that the Moderates are in opposition. I talked to a cop last night who said he'd never experienced this. He said they have the powers they need, but they need more colleagues. This is the decision of the Social Democrats from the Party Congress in 2017: 10 000 more police employees, of which 5 000 are already in place. Thousands are waiting again. That is what will make a difference. I believe that Louise Meijer has a very good will in dealing with crime. I think we fully agree on that. But it is also about the ability of politics. One who has been given the form of goodwill but naive and non-existent ability is Marie Antoinette, who allegedly has been said to have them eat cookies, when she would find a solution to the famine in France in the 18th century. It almost seems that we have got an equivalent in terms of the naive attitude of a political party. The Moderates say that one important part of breaking gang crime is to increase the compensation for parents when their children commit crimes from $5,000 to $5,000. There is a lack of sensitivity to believe that such a thing will reverse the development of someone in a socially vulnerable position. It is one thing that the Moderates go against the scientists, who have looked at the proposal and condemned it, but is there not anyone at the Moderate Party Office who has played on the same football team or went to the same school as someone from a socially vulnerable family who has been on the run?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-110	Madam President, I would like One might almost think that a Member of the Lantz speaks of his own party when he says that the will exists but not the ability. I believe that the Social Democrats have the will, but we are still waiting for the ability after almost eight years of government. There's gonna be more cops, that's all. However, we see that the proportion of police officers among the police workers does not seem to be two thirds, as has been said by the Social Democrats – perhaps even at your party congress. D the target does not seem to be met either. When it comes to the issue of increased parental liability, it seems that the Social Democrats are once again not on the opposition's side in increasing parental responsibility, even in vulnerable areas, for example. The other day, a woman who is the mother of a child she suspects is selling narcotics was interviewed. The interview is available in Aftonbladet. She said, "Hear and behold, the only thing that will help is to expel more people." You have to expel more of the gang criminals. That is exactly what is part of the Moderate and Opposition package to tackle the problems, among many other proposals that I have mentioned in the previous debate but where the government simply does not agree with us. The government doesn't think so. In that case, proposals had been put forward so that more gang criminals could be more easily expelled. The government doesn't think it should be easier to tap gang criminals. In that case, such a proposal had been put forward, and it is not. There are big differences. If you choose next year to vote for the Moderates, you will have another government option, another power of action and other political proposals. If you think that Sweden is not doing very well, that here the government should reconsider and do the right thing, then you should vote for the Moderates. If you do not agree with the Social Democrats on justice policy, you are offered and get something else.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-115	Madam President, I would like Sweden is opposed to a European trend in the number of killings. In Europe, the number is falling. Sweden now has the most shootings in Europe. It is a result of the conditions that a Social Democratic-led government has given to our country. If a country has Europe's most extreme immigration policy, the main explanation that Sweden is Europe's most segregated country, it will have extreme outcomes elsewhere too. We can see that now. We see this in the form of shootings, contradictions, loss of confidence in authorities in segregated areas, increased violence against the police, increased violence against officials and increased violence against ambulance staff, firemen, social services and all that it may be. This is how the Social Democrats have deliberately chosen to create our country, that is, a segregated country full of contradictions with a lack of respect for law and order. There is no one else to blame, and there is no one else to blame for political responsibility other than the Red-Green Government. It has had full influence on migration policy and has accepted migration policy when it has been in opposition. This is the main explanation why Sweden has the most shootings in Europe right now. Madam President, I would like I can see here from the speaker's seat a flagrant spectacle from the Social Democracy in the debate. It is claimed that the opposition's vote in criminal policy is completely insignificant for the work that is being done in the Government Office. Let me take as an example the press conference held by Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson the other day in relation to increased penalties for sexual offences. The report shows that the motive for increased minimum punishment for rape is precisely the pressure that comes from the opposition. It says in the investigation, and the Minister of Justice says that it is the main motive for tightening the penalty for rape of the standard grade. This is a point that the government completely left when the penalties for sexual crimes were tightened in 2018. I can take another example, namely the tightening of penalties for gross female poverty. The government has had a reasoned refusal not to increase the penalty for gross female poverty from 2013. Year after year there has been the same justified rejection of why it does not want to tighten the penalty for gross women's freedom. It is clear from the protocols that existing legislation is sufficient and that the tightening up made in 2013 is sufficient. It is satisfied with the outcome of the strengthening of the legislation that took place in 2013. It is a reasoned refusal to tighten up the penalty for gross violation of women's rights by the government. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats have been the only party to exercise and vote from 2013 until today in order to tighten the penalty for gross female poverty. It is now, during a media storm that blew up around many unfortunate murders of women in close relationship in a short time, that the government chooses to come up with a stance based on a report from October 2020. Now the government is saying that it is prepared to tighten the penalty. This is not to feel pressure from within to tighten the penalties for serious crimes in our country. It is to act populisticly and minimally on the basis of the conditions stipulated by the opposition through announcements in the Swedish Parliament. That's what it looks like. That's the truth. There are protocols for those who want to examine how the government has justified its refusals over the years. Of course, there are ideological differences which constitute opposition on the part of the government to the demands of the opposition. We stress the individual's responsibility for his or her own actions when committing serious crimes. The Social Democrats and left-wing parties say that this is a social failure and that society has a responsibility to rehabilitate the one who has committed a crime, not punish. That is the ideological difference, and that is why we land differently on so many issues. This is clearly to be read in this report. There are many motivated rejections from the Social Democrats and the Red Green Government. We have heard here that there is sufficient legislation in place on illegal roadblocks. But then you don't meet the problem. It is not a question of harassment or illegal threats, but of organised crime in which illegal roadblocks form part of a major problem, which in turn constitutes a serious problem for many district residents who have their freedom limited. If you are satisfied that this is to be described as traffic crime or illegal threats, you do not meet the problems posed by the illegal roadblocks, namely that they are part of an organised gang crime. That part of the work of gang criminals is a prerequisite for engaging in drug sales and shooting people to death without witnesses at the other end. There are justified refusals on the part of the government. There are many proposals, such as criminalising participation in criminal organisations and a broader definition of criminal gang crime. The government rejects this with a reasoned rejection. Other countries have this legislation in place. One could say that Sweden has the weakest legislation against gang crime across Europe. I don't think I touch it when I say it like that, but it's probably at the bottom of it. Other countries go considerably further on more fronts. We in the Swedish Democrats have been the driving force since we entered the Riksdag to tighten the penalties and continue to be so, because we want to emphasise responsibility for the individual's actions. We don't care what motive anyone has for committing a crime. If you commit a serious crime, you should be in prison for a very long time. This is part of a social and norm-forming statement which is extremely important in order to overcome the problem that the Social Democrats have been spreading in our country for too long. Part of this is also about the fact that we have to expel people – foreigners – who commit crimes. This is an issue that the government feels is very sensitive. There should be no excuses for staying. If you have reasons for connection – if you have been in the country for a long time or have a distant cousin somewhere in Norrland – you can stay today after raping and murdering. You can rape and murder several times in our country because of the Social Democratic Government, and if you do so as a foreign citizen you can stay and avoid expulsion. If you refuse to covidtest yourself, you don't have to be expelled. This is a joke, Madam President. It's a joke to the government. It is a joke how to deal with these issues in our country and expose our people to serious violations. I would also like to emphasise that there would be a significant difference with a new government. With a Swedish democratic criminal policy, there will be a difference in society. Do not believe the Social Democrats when they say that they are already working on the issue; that is a complete lie! There will be a big difference if the Swedish democrats gain influence over criminal policy. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 29 on the expulsion of gang criminals.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-130	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by giving Adam Marttinen the right answer to one thing: it would be a huge difference if the Swedish democrats gained influence over the government in this country. Although this report contains many important elements in the fight against men's violence against women, Adam Marttinen managed to talk about it without taking the words into his mouth. It's not surprising. In SVT's Debate Jimmie Åkesson debated men's violence against women. He began by saying that we have imported values that we had more or less eradicated from this country in the past. My question to Adam Marttinen is whether he agrees with the history of his party leader. If so, I would be grateful for clarification here today as to when this eradication would have taken place. What decade did this extinction take place?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-133	Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women is a problem everywhere; that has been accepted by Jimmie Åkesson in the party leader's debate, and I myself have admitted this in the special debate that we had in this House. It's everywhere. It looks different, but it's everywhere and it's always been there. For example, when it comes to values as to whether you can rape your wife, this has long been criminalised in our country, but in many other countries it is perfectly permissible to have sex with your wife against the wife's will. These values, which have been completely alien to us for a very long time, have become entrenched in segregated residential areas in our country. There is a social acceptance because a man has the right to demand sex with his wife against his wife's will. There are many other examples of how women live in extreme vulnerability in these segregated areas, where you have a very long way to reach help from society and where you are told by the local imam to apologize to your husband when you have been abused. This is a form of cultural acceptance of violence against women, which I believe most people in our country feel is completely alien, but which has taken hold in our country because we have had strong immigration from countries and regions where men and women have different values. If you don't want to see this, you can engage in populism and be a social democrat – please! But then you leave a great many vulnerable women who live in segregation and a tremendous exposure to violent violations of their own freedom to their fate.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-137	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to my very simple question. On the other hand, I can say that, since the beginning of the 21st century, lethal violence against women has declined by around 20%, and previous surveys have shown that it fell from higher levels before that. The Swedish democrats often dream back to a time that has never existed. Per Albin Hansson became Social Democratic Prime Minister in the 30th century. He described his view of how a society should be – a Sweden without privileged, without repressed, with no petletes and without stepchildren. I do not know what political role models Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats have from the 1930s, but it is not Per Albin Hansson. It goes against the whole folk house's idea to turn a blind eye to the violence of some people depending on their origins and to frustrate reality so that women are made invisible and problems are swept under the carpet. We're strengthening women's shelters. We're tightening up the penalty for gross femininity. We are working offensively against honour violence with both resources and sharper legislation that is more powerful than has ever been seen in this country. We don't sweep serious crimes under the carpet, depending on the offender's origin.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-142	Madam President, I would like Member Gustaf Lantz is very pleased that the number of murders of women falls, or appears to fall, from one year to another. At the same time, one can close one's eyes completely because, for example, the number of suicides involving women jumping out of balconies may have increased very drastically over the last ten years. This is a problem that we simply do not want to see, because there may be a cultural link to such problems. Sweep on under the carpet, but the problems are out in the community. We see them, and we care. Just whether it is culturally conditioned and imported from other countries or whether it is domestic abuse of women over the years, which we continue to be involved in in our country, it is extremely important that we go further than the government has ever done to remedy the strengthening of women's right to freedom and life in our country by punishing those who commit these crimes and not letting them out so that they can murder again.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-144	Madam President, I would like It started with a little jealousy, and I could think it was romantic that he was so in love with me that he went crazy just thinking that I would just look at another guy. ..................................................... So says a young woman in a medium-sized Swedish city – a young person who should have his whole life ahead of her but who is now forced to live hidden with protected identity. She lives under threat of death. She also tells how her partner gradually became more and more controlling. He constantly wanted to know where she was, demanded to look at her phone and made so much trouble every time she wanted to see a friend that after a while she stopped spending more or less time with her friends. She was told that she was worthless and constantly had her morals and intelligence questioned. Everything she did was wrong. She suffered ridicule and scolding. He said she was the worst thing that ever happened to him. Yet he would never ever let go of her; it was implied. There was also a very serious implied threat. The first death threat she didn't take seriously – it was just something you say in an upset situation, she thought. But the threats became more common and more frequent. She tells me that she felt so much guilt. She felt that it was her fault, that it was her fault that he hit, because he started doing that after a while. There were slaps, bumps, and hard pinches, and she was thrown to the floor. She felt it was kind of too late to say stop. She had begun to accept the way she was treated, and it was too late to change, it was too late to leave him. Of course it is not, but it often feels that way for those who suffer from this type of treatment. It's called the normalization process. It is a behavior that is not criminal in the sense of the law but that gradually leads the relationship deeper and deeper into dysfunctionality, where the step becomes very short to violence and other criminal acts. The crimes are only a natural extension of the power, control and psychological abuse that has been going on for so long that the victim has been so broken that she does not believe or feel able to do anything to break out of the terrible situation that the abusive partner has put her in. Madam President, I would like Some of the proposals we are debating in this report are precisely aimed at strengthening the protection of victims of violence in close relations. We are proposing a large number of announcements on, for example, punitive measures, and that is a good thing. It's necessary. Nevertheless, I would ask you to look at our proposal to criminalise what is called controlling behaviour, which meets the very type of psychological abuse that normalises, or risks normalizing, the distorted power relationship that often turns into severe acts of violence. The value of breaking a destructive pattern before it goes too far cannot be overestimated. I would therefore like to support our reservation 4 to introduce such a crime. Even if we do not get a majority for it today, I would kindly ask the others to look at the proposal, so perhaps we can agree over time. The crime has already existed in the UK since 2015, and thousands of prosecutions have been brought. Thousands of opportunities have been created to save people from suffering and death. Think about it! Madam President, I would like After all, we have an agreement to ask for only one reservation each, and I will follow it even today. However, it was difficult to refrain from applying even for reservation 3, which deals with the child-relief crime. Of course, it is very good that we have one in place that meets children who witness crimes. However, the penalty should also include violations that directly affect the child, modelled on the violation of women's rights. Behind the reservation are two more parties, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals who come after me in the order of speaking, so my hope is that one of them will use their motion for this very important reservation.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-155	Madam President, I would like Finally, the criminal offense at sex purchases is to be removed. At last, men who buy other people's bodies to exploit them will not be able to pay themselves free. It was about time. This is an issue on which the Riksdag, on the initiative of the Left Party, voted as early as October 2019. Only the Left Party voted in favour of the proposal, but things change. Police intervention cod has put well-known men's sex purchases on the media map, and parties have, one by one, changed their minds. The Government decided on an additional directive to the S Exual Crime Investigation to remove the fine, and yesterday the Minister of Justice presented the very proposal that the Left Party has been pursuing for a long time. It feels very good. But there is much more to be done when it comes to sex crime legislation. For example, the woman who has been subjected to the sexual abuse, to the purchase of sex, must be given the status of plaintiff in the charge of the sex purchase crime. That is not the case today. According to the Faculty of Law at Stockholm University, the reason why the courts have not followed the call for stricter penalties for buying sex is that there is uncertainty as to whether the offence is to be considered against the public interest or against the individual's interest. It is therefore determined in each individual case whether the victim receives the right to be sued or not. I think it should be seen as a matter of course that the person selling sex should be regarded as the plaintiff when the buyer is the one reported for the crime. Those who buy sexual services not only harm society but also those who sell sex. They will be able to apply for compensation for damages, to obtain a plaintiff's assistant during the preliminary investigation and trial and to have access to other support measures for victims. Madam President, I would like We also need to review what is and is defined as a sex purchase, that the concept of abuse is broadened. Buying sexual abuse online must also be seen as a sex purchase to be banned. It is common for pornography to be broadcast live on the Swedish internet forum. The customer can often actively announce requests to pay for sexual services that the woman is expected to perform. This should reasonably also be seen as a sex purchase, even if it is done online. According to Sweden's women's lobby, there is a big difference in how Swedes view sex purchases when they are in Sweden and when they are on holiday or business trips. This is often linked to a series of stereotypical and racist notions about women from other countries in particular. Sex buying of women from Asia or other parts of the world is seen as less serious, as it is assumed to be part of their culture or seen as a way to help poor women. All people who sell sex are equally worthy of protection, regardless of the country in which they live, as should be stated in the legislation. Today, Swedish legislation has already removed the double criminality of child abuse and child pornography offences. It is now high time to extend the law to include Swedes who buy six abroad from persons over 18 years of age. Madam President, I would like People who sell sex can do so voluntarily, but for the most part it is not really voluntary. It is a question of coercion, coercion due to poverty, making the body a commodity that others can exploit. It's not a beautiful world. It's a world where the pimp decides. You're locked in an apartment or a hotel room with anxiety relief, condoms and lubricants on your bedside table. There is often no money left to send home to the family in Romania, for example. The women are suffering something huge. Swedish men try to hide their crime by painting a glamorous picture of the women's lives. The police work to stop trafficking in human beings linked to prostitution is very important. Therefore, each police region should have a special unit working on these matters. Units should work outreach and work closely with social services and non-profit organisations. The aim is to get more people convicted for buying sex, leashing and human trafficking, but also to support the people who are exploited in prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes. There is today quite good international work through Europol. However, in order to improve international cooperation with the Swedish police, Sweden should have a liaison person at Europol. Today, the Swedish police use the Norwegian liaison officer through a Nordic cooperation, including in matters relating to human trafficking for sexual purposes. Sweden should have its own liaison person. This is about giving the women, the victims, redress. It is about trapping the men who buy sex, both in Sweden and abroad, and ensuring that the police's work is synchronised with social efforts and the efforts of non-profit organisations. This is certainly not an isolated problem. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-171	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing criminal matters in the Swedish Parliament. No less than 19 announcements are proposed to the government. It is a very clear statement by the opposition and by a majority in the Committee on Justice against the government's too vague criminal policy. Sometimes we hear the government's representatives beating their chests and saying that, according to a proud Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, the government has raised some fifty penalties – as if it is the number and not the effect that is interesting. For us Christian Democrats, it is central that the penalties are fair and proportionate to the crimes that have been committed. Here criminal law is lacking today, and this applies, for example, to serious crime and to the violation of peace and sex. It is clear that Sweden needs a new government that can tackle insecurity seriously and that can ensure that we receive fair punishment. The Christian Democrats have exercised that the penalty rebates should be reviewed, and this will be announced today to the government. The penalties imposed by Swedish courts are today far too low to deal with the serious crime that characterises our country and puts city after city in terror. The government has, as I said, tightened up many penalties, but the vast majority are tightened only marginally. The problems remain, above all because the system errors in Swedish criminal law are not addressed. One such thing is the penalty rebates. Today there are five extenuating circumstances and nine reasons for cheapness, so-called penalty rebates, in the 29th chapter of the Criminal Code. Today, the Riksdag decides that a number of these will be reviewed. But the government is against, and the government parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, together with the Left and Liberals, write in the reservation that they believe that the reasons for cheapness are well balanced and that there is no reason to change them. Madam President, I would like At the beginning of this debate, we heard Mr Lantz compare the opposition to children sitting in the back seat asking: When are we there? If I'm going to build on this picture, the government's answer is: No, we're not going there. What we are proposing is that the penalty rebates be reviewed, changed or removed so that we get a more fair criminal law, but this is what the government says no to. Today, a victim of violence who is injured may receive a penalty discount. If there is a long time before a rape is reported, which is not unusual, the offender may receive a penalty discount. If a robber risks losing his job, there could be a penalty discount. According to the government, this is clearly well considered and there is no reason to change. There are differences in Swedish criminal policy, and this is just one of many examples. The Christian Democrats disagree with the government, and I am pleased that the committee agrees and hopes that the House will follow our line. After the change of government in 2022, the penalty rebates will be abolished. Drugs are the life air of gang crime. It is through drugs that they earn their money, and that is often what drives conflicts that lead to shootings and killings. In 2011, the Supreme Court changed the case law on the sanctions for drug offences. This means that large-scale drug handlers are given shorter prison sentences. As a result, they spend more time in society and can continue to deal drugs. Drugs are the single most important source of income for the criminal networks responsible for increased gun violence. The availability of drugs also drives consumption. A drug salesman needs to be severely punished, so the penalties for drug offences should be tightened up. This, too, will be announced by the Parliament today to the government. Don't let the drug dealers go free! Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that those who commit crimes within the framework of organised crime must receive considerably increased penalties. In Denmark, there is the possibility of imposing double penalties on those who commit crimes within the framework of organised crime. In the United States, the RICO laws have been crucial to tackling serious organised crime with considerably increased penalties. It also means that leaders who benefit from subordinate crime can be judged if this is done within the framework of ongoing criminal organisation. This has not least been successful in framing the mafia. An aggravating circumstance of organised crime already exists in the Criminal Code. We believe, however, that it is far from sufficient. The penalties for organised crime need to be substantially tightened. The Christian Democrats believe that it should be possible to ban criminal organisation, but this obviously needs to be carefully investigated as it requires a constitutional amendment. We believe, however, that this is a legitimate measure, as serious organised crime is gaining a stronger grip on society. The Christian Democrats have been pushing this for a long time, ever since the 1990s, as well as for a ban on membership of terrorist organisations. Organised crime cannot be allowed to grow in degree of organisation. It must be dissolved, and those involved must be punished. We're behind reservation 26. As the Moderates have applied for this reservation, I have room to ask for reservation 3 on child-relief offences, which was referred to by the centre party Johan Hedin. The Christian Democrats, too, believe that it is important to have special criminal law protection for children who are victims of violence or peace reduction. Of course, I support our other reservations, but I do not agree with them in order to save time at voting time.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-193	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and the Christian Democrats' party leader Ebba Busch have with pomp and boast launched something that the Christian Democrats call new feminism. My question to Andreas Carlson is therefore: is the fact that the Christian Democrats today will vote against criminalising sex purchases abroad part of this new feminism?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-195	Madam President, I would like No, the Christian Democrats will not support this reservation because we think it is much more effective to combat sex purchases and trafficking in human beings here in our country and set an example to other countries. We also want to export Swedish sex buying laws to more countries. It is much more effective to tackle the problems of prostitution, human trafficking and sex purchases seriously. We want to combat this by means of the means that have the best effect, and then our assessment is that changing the principle of double criminality does not lead to anything good but rather can give other setbacks to the legislation, which we do not want to open up to. Our new feminism is about taking the side of every exposed woman and fighting for it with all possible means. That is why we have many proposals in the report that are about taking strong action when it comes to trafficking in human beings and buying sex and to tightening the penalties.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-198	Madam President, I would like I note that precisely one means would not be used, although all possible means were available to protect women. I find that regrettable. It is funny when Mr Carlson says that he wants to export sound feminist values to the outside world. Good, but Andreas Carlson has a party partner – Lars Adaktusson, who sits and presses the buttons here in the Riksdag. He sat in the last parliamentary term in the European Parliament and pressed 22 times against abortion when the issue was up – 22! Once is not once, twice is a gong, you usually say, but 22 times is a Hesa Fredrik. KD in Uppsala is nothing more than the political branch of the Word of Life. I know that, and I know that those who have worked for the Christian Democrats in Uppsala and written about it on their blog. The Word of Life is very closely connected with the Christian Right in the United States, which was the basis for Trumps's seizure of power. The leader of the Christian Democrats' Women's League, the one who is responsible for women's issues, took the step straight to the post of an abortion-critical organisation. I must say that I prefer an honest old feminism to what the Christian Democrats are now doing, whatever it is.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-202	Madam President, I would like Empty barrels shudder the most – 19 hindsights for the government in the report. It is a huge rejection of the policy that the government pursues when it comes to tightening the penalties, protecting the peace of women and protecting the vulnerable. Then you will hear insinuations and false statements from Social-Democrat Gustaf Lantz who in itself do not deserve to be met. It is not about what we are debating here today, but it is a cheap trick to try to move the focus away from its own failure, which has been going on year after year. When it comes to voting in the European Parliament, it is not about the substance of the matter, but about what competence should exist in the European Parliament and about national legislation to govern the areas addressed by Gustaf Lantz. It's not about anything else. I think that Gustaf Lantz can do much better than this, both in Parliament's chambers and in other arenas that he is debating. I expect a slightly higher level of members of the Committee on Justice.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-205	Madam President, I would like It's getting a little hot in here. These seem to be test election times at the Social Democrats in Uppsala. I'm going to give my perspective on feminism, which was up in the previous line shift. It is very much about that directly in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on criminal matters. We have a number of proposals and demands to improve the protection of women who are victims of violence and to ensure that women are not subjected to violence in any form whatsoever and to counteract systematic repression, not to say terror. It is women who carry much of the pain in the tracks of crime. It is mothers, siblings and children, certainly both boys and girls, who see and bear the effects of the increasing and very serious violence and the rise of serious crime. Me and the Liberals think it's necessary for us to move our positions here. No one believes that the will of the Social Democrats is that it should look like it does. The self-imposed image of goodness and society's creators, which we heard from the Social Democrats and Gustaf Lantz initially, is a fairly strong self-image, but I think we have reached a little further than that. We have real problems in Sweden right now that we have to deal with. One factor in solving them is the punishment. Another is the tools that police and prosecutors can use, which we have talked about when we have debated procedural law. Then there are resources. As far as the Liberals are concerned, it has been important in January to try to push the Social Democrats forward, which has been absolutely crucial in that 10 000 new police workers, a large part of whom will be police officers, will come. But more will be needed, Madam President, I would like to tell you. The agreement is moving in the right direction, but it is not enough. We have to have authorities except for the police department that works. The inertia that exists in the understanding of the Social Democrats that there should be resources for the prosecutors, the courts and the penitentiary means that we do not have the effect in the fight against the crimes that we so badly need. We know that there is a rather questionable situation in the working environment at the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency. The Social Democrats obviously do not want to do anything about this. The prosecutors receive constant fire brigade suppressions with extra supplements. The courts are on their knees right now. All of this will come back to the Liberals in the budgetary negotiations that are in place for the 2022 financial year. There must be quite a few more billions to deal with it. Otherwise, we will not have the effect of what we are talking about now, that is to say, criminal law. The Social Democrats have a lot to learn and need to prioritise what is important. How can it be that in a world where serious crime is expanding, there is an unwillingness to grasp the fact that anyone who chooses lifestyle crime needs a long period of imprisonment for his own rehabilitation? Then society is also protected in the meantime. I can stand here all day and list cases. I assure the President and my colleagues that I will not do so, but I will take a case from Linköping District Court a couple of weeks ago. One person had again been taken for serious illegal driving, drunk driving, violations of the Knife Act and drug crime. That's the 44th entry in the record, 44th! Then it blows – boom! - a month in prison. Oh, my God! Somebody has to understand that we can't go on like this. If we add even more serious crime, it is vital that these people have time for their own rehabilitation. They hurt themselves, they hurt others and they hurt women – mothers, sisters or direct victims of this crime. Therefore, the most important issue is that we need to look more seriously at recurrent crime. We need to get away from discount systems. There's one thing. Then we need to have a progressive approach. The same love that the Social Democrats feel for fighting wealth should be felt for fighting crime. That would be a good thing for this House. Those who commit crimes after crimes should get help and longer lock-in. An answer must be given – this is important. That is why the Liberals are in favour of reservation 49, which is about taking seriously those people who are critical of their lifestyle. The law book, the blue that we had at law school and is still published annually, is quite well adapted for Gustaf Lantz, me, Andreas Carlson and all of us who are sitting in here. It is perfect and has a pretty good balance, but it is completely irrelevant to the people who choose the gangs, clans and crime as a lifestyle. We must respond to this much better. The recent tragic events in Husby, Hjulsta, Hjällbo, Eskilstuna and Örebro clearly show that the interview with the Minister for the Interior in Ekot's Saturday interview grew very fast. We are in a national crisis situation where territorial gangs, clans or other gangs are taking over. They eat into the social body. That's why I was just nagging about the Ecocrime Agency. That's where it starts. The shootings are just the tip of the iceberg. There's something else underneath. It's drugs, welfare crime, blackmail and human trafficking. All this is beneath. We must therefore strike and cut the head of the hydra to use a metaphor, as the Social Democrats are happy to do in the speaker's seat in this debate. Nor is it contrary to previous and clearer efforts, which is also absolutely crucial. But we are talking about this in other debates. There is nothing that can be so loving as to give massive support socially but also to mark against young people, not infrequently men who are drawn into and become cannon fodder in the serious crime, that the first crime should be the last crime. There are plenty of things for us Liberals to bring up here. We can talk about drinking when it comes to safety on our roads. We can talk about the drug crimes. Expulsion was just brought up. As part of the January agreement, the Liberals have ensured that there will be an investigation in just a few weeks' time. It goes without saying that no one should be able to invoke the fact that you have a cousin in Norrland – nor can you today, Adam Marttinen. You go, despite that, out even today. But many find that they have a child that they have not seen in ten years, and then they can stay. It is quite good for this child if this adult person, often a man, is actually expelled. We will therefore ensure that people who behave are given a chance to stay in Sweden and develop. But if you commit serious crimes, it is unfortunately expulsion that applies if you are not a Swedish citizen. Madam President, I would like Liberals want to see a criminal justice reform based primarily on making sure to meet the people who choose crime as a lifestyle, whether it be gangs, clans or notorious petty thieves. They deserve a long time in rehabilitation, and society deserves protection and a relevant criminal law to complement tools and authorities' efforts.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-224	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the reservations which have the so-called false majority, namely reservations 37 and 54. Last week there was a report from the Crime Prevention Council which received a lot of attention. It does indeed confirm something that we already knew about, that Sweden is among the countries in Europe that are highest in terms of the number of firearms killed. Most of the countries compared in the report have had a positive development in the 21st century with fewer such murders or that there has been no change. Sweden is certainly among the countries in the middle in terms of the total number of murders per capita. So there has been a reduction in other types of murder in our country. But the development is extremely serious. Shots fired with severely injured and killed in the public room on the open street do something to society. When it's public in this way and so brutally, we get scared. It threatens trust and security in society. The threshold for this form of extreme violence has become far too low in many groups. Stopping the development of this brutal crime is one of the most important tasks for all of us. We have also seen that there have been examples locally and regionally where it has been shown that development can be reversed and that it can go in the right direction. Madam President, I would like More obscure in the debate, men's violence against women has been. However, in recent times it has become more prominent in the debate, which I very much welcome. This type of crime and abuse is less common in the street, even if it occurs. But much of this happens inside the four walls of the home. The other day, an investigation was presented proposing to increase the minimum penalty for rape from at least two years in prison to at least three years in prison. The investigation also proposes a tightening up of the penalty for gross female freedom from nine months in prison to one year in prison. This is good. The Green Party has worked for many years to expand in different ways what is sexual crime and to look more strictly at sexual crimes. Madam President, I would like There is work going on in the government to develop a programme against men's violence against women – a package. I look forward to it being broad and powerful and presented if not too long. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight the knife teams, which several have been involved in before. The government has announced that there will be a tightening up of violations of the Knife Act and that more cases will be judged as serious than today. That is also a good measure. Knives are, and will continue to be, easily accessible because everyday use is completely harmless when used for what they are to be used for. But as they are easily accessible, they can also very easily be taken where they absolutely should not be used. And it is still more common for knives to be used in dealings of various kinds. That is also something we need to deal with. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for reservations 37 and 54 to be accepted.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-232	Madam President, I would like In this report, Violent crime and victims of crime, the Committee on Legal Affairs deals with some 170 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. In a majority of these claims, it is a question of a woman or a child being a victim of crime and a man being the perpetrator. The reason for this, to be clear, is that the motions are mostly about men's violence against women, honour-related violence and repression and a ban on contact. In recent months, men's violence against women has indeed been on the political agenda and, I would say, has been topical in people's everyday lives. There have been many writings, and discussions have highlighted the problem of men's violence against women and have clearly shown that family tragedy and other domestic activities are not something that the rest of us do not care about. That's good. The debate now taking place on structural violence against women is long awaited, and it is good that more people are getting involved in this. We Social Democrats have two clear priorities in criminal policy: men's violence against women and gang crime. These two priorities are equivalent. Unfortunately, it is more difficult to get attention for the first question, but the work is ongoing. Although the media debate on men's violence against women has now cooled down a little, our work in combating it has not cooled off. In the last few weeks, we have been able to announce several measures. For example, we want to tighten up the penalty for gross violation of peace and gross violation of women's rights. Foot buoys should be able to be used more frequently. We also want to review the rules of association, when a child should not be forced to associate with the father if he is an perpetrator. Investigations have been set up and made their proposals. It is part of this process that enables us here in Parliament to decide later on new legislative proposals. More measures will be taken when the government prepares a larger list of measures to prevent and combat men's violence against women. Many measures are needed in many different areas to put an end to violence. Since 2016, we social democrats are working on a coherent strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. The efforts we have made on the police have enabled the recruitment of 350 new investigators, focusing in particular on sexual crimes, violence in close relationships, violence against children and honour-related crimes. We have also given women's shelters increased resources. Madam President, I would like However, that is not enough. It is quite obvious – it is beyond doubt – that more needs to be done. We shall have a zero vision of these crimes, and then we must fight and prevent them from happening. However, these issues do not end up in this report, because it is another committee that has the very important issues of prevention. Men's violence against women and boys' violence against girls is one of our society's biggest problems, and it is neither new nor has come here. Our task as a citizen of society must be to do all we can to put an end to this. Madam President, I would like Today, in Parliament, we are debating a report dealing with motions written last autumn. In April, the Government set up an investigation to develop a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children. The sex crime investigation in 2020 made its proposals earlier this week – I think it was yesterday. And that is what it looks like: new proposals are coming and new investigations are being set up. I am convinced that we all in here, and many with us, want violence to stop. There is a broad consensus on these issues. That is good, because we all have to do everything we can to put an end to men's violence against women. And besides seeing the woman affected, we all need to see the man who beats – and we need to react. Having said that, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 32.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-242	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the motion report on violent crimes and victims of crime. We Moderates support all the reservations that we have, but I only support reservation number 38. This report contains many good proposals. The committee proposes many announcements that are very good. However, I cannot mention all the proposals here today, so I have selected some. Recently, violence in close relationships has been noted. Recently, five women were murdered during a three-week period. Many children live their lives without their mother. Last Sunday was Mother's Day, Madam President – certainly a very painful day for the children who have lost their mothers. We Moderates have been working for a long time to tighten up on violence in close relationships. This report proposes a number of announcements on this particular issue. It is very good, but it must also be a workshop. It can't just be empty words. For several years, we Moderates have been pushing the issue of electronic monitoring, i.e. the anklet, being used in more cases than today. Today, a ban on contact must first be lifted before a decision on a anklet can be taken. It's completely unreasonable, and it could pose a great danger to the woman or man who's at risk, for that matter. In some cases, it's men. We want a risk assessment to be carried out on a case-by-case basis and for the anklet to be used directly, as a first-hand measure. Already three years ago, the Riksdag announced that an extended ban on contact with a ankle buoy should be adopted as a first step. Although it has been over three years, the government has not returned any legislative proposal, but it has been informed that it intends to return during its term of office. The government claims that it takes violence in close relations seriously; we just heard from the Socialist Member that this is a clear priority on the part of the government. Then one might wonder if it should really take over three years before the government makes legislative proposals. If so, how many years will it take for non-priority proposals? As I said, it has been over three years since Parliament's announcement, and I hope that the government will stop talking and instead get moving and come back with legislative proposals soon, so that no more women are murdered. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have proposed a complete review of support to victims and the establishment of a coordinating function on the part of society. A thesis has shown that it is difficult to get an overall picture of the support available to victims. The thesis showed that young people who were victims of crime did not receive the support they wanted and needed. There would have been a lot of focus on psychosocial support, but young people would have liked more practical support in the legal process as well as information about what applies to financial compensation and what professional support they can get. A crime victim needs different types of support at the same time, and therefore a coordinating function is needed that can help to get an overall view of the support. Madam President, I would like Honour-related violence and oppression do not belong in Sweden. No man, regardless of gender or origin, shall have his freedom curtailed by almost medieval standards. The whole of society must demonstrate with far greater force that we are not passively watching as more and more people testify to how standards of honour take hold. This is why it is important to tighten up legislation. It is also a question of redressing victims. In Sweden, no one should have the right to prevent someone else from going out and moving freely, meeting friends, dressing as they want, working or getting an education. Today, however, many adults and children live under honorary violence and oppression. This violence and oppression are often carried out collectively by the family. The control of girls' and women's sexuality is central, and the choice of partner is not the person's but the family's – or, sometimes, the whole family's. Violence and oppression affect both girls and women, as well as boys and men, and it is both men and women who are perpetrators. Many times you think it's only men who are perpetrators, but that's not true. Women can also be perpetrators and oppressors. Religion, culture or control needs that limit someone else's freedom and the right to control their own life do not belong in Sweden. It does not belong in Sweden! If you are not satisfied with it, perhaps you should consider moving to another country, because it does not belong here. If interviews are held with a child suspected of being the victim of honour-related crime, the guardian shall be informed of the law as soon as possible unless it complicates the investigation. This may pose problems in cases where social services have not decided that the child should be taken care of immediately after the hearing. It can also mean uncertainty for the child, who is extradited to the family. Therefore, notification to guardians should be postponed if it is detrimental to the child. For the same reason, there should be the possibility of failing to notify, i.e. not informing the parents at all, if a child has been interrogated where there is suspicion of honour-related crime. The law is not designed with an honorary context in mind. There must be opportunities for the police to hold an interrogation, for example, regardless of whether the guardian has given his consent. On 1 July 2020, new laws and regulations came into force to combat honor-related crime. These include, for example, a penalty base for crimes of honour, new provisions on child marriage offences and the possibility to decide on an exit ban in order to prevent child marriage and genital mutilation. It is good that protection against honour-related crime has been strengthened, but more is needed. Honorable crime is often characterised by a culture of silence in relation to the authorities and the police. We Moderates have exercised that it will be punishable to fail to report or otherwise expose forced marriage and child marriage, because we believe that it can counteract the culture of silence. It is very good that the Riksdag will vote in favour of the Moderates' proposal that it should be criminalized not to report or expose forced marriage and child marriage. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention our proposal on the identification of sexual offences. For many years sex offences have increased sharply, and a survey is needed to combat these serious crimes. The identification shall cover the nature of the crime, where and in what context the crime is committed, and who is the perpetrator and who is the victim of the crime. The aim is, of course, to combat sexual crimes.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-258	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 2. On March 3, this year, Sarah Everard was on her way home from a friend's home at night. It was a normal night. The walk wasn't even an hour long. Sarah had taken all the precautions that many women feel they had to take when they are going to spend the evening alone. She wore colorful clothes, had stuffed her hair so that it could not be grasped from behind, talked to her boyfriend on the phone and chose an illuminated path. In other words, she had done all that women often learn to do to reduce the risk of being attacked. In addition to the absurdity of the fact that it is often the responsibility of women not to be attacked, there is another fact: If you meet the wrong person, it does not matter at all what action you have taken. Sarah never came home that night. In fact, she never came home again. A week later, her remains were found in a forest section. Of course, the anger and grief that erupted after this brutal murder were massive, and it did not get better because the London police went out and urged women to stay at home for a while because it was perhaps the best way to go. Again, but in other words, if you are a woman, it is best not to challenge fate. For many women, too, the idea immediately arose: What happened to Sarah might as well have happened to me. The truth is, it did. And for many, that will also happen. Every day, every hour and every minute, women fall victim to men's violence – in the public room, in the home, in the workplace and in school. In April, it was reported that no fewer than five women in three weeks were murdered by a loved one. This prompted – at last – a much-needed discussion on men's violence against women. There were party leaders' talks as well as a special debate in the Riksdag. The issue was also raised in Agenda's party leader debate. Clearly, there is a will for change and a strong commitment. But as soon as the discussion arose, it died out just as quickly. It is almost as if there are only a limited number of 52 weeks of the year when these issues can be discussed, even though we know that this is going on all the weeks. But now we have this debate, which I – if not already made clear – intended to devote precisely to men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like Through a number of parliamentary movements over the years, the Swedish Democrats have pressed for measures that would make a difference to those who have been victims of violence in their relations. These include several penalties, which were discussed in the previous debate, electronic monitoring in the event of a restraining order, storage sentences for persons who are deemed to have a high risk of reoccurring from crime, and facilitation of the compensation procedure when a crime is still committed. Some of these proposals are addressed today as announcements to the government, which is proof that there is a great deal of support in the Committee on Justice, which is very gratifying. Here, for example, we can mention the centre party proposals that have managed to bring together all parties and one committee. This is worth paying attention. But there are also proposals that did not get that far. I would like to mention here the proposal for an accident commission in all cases of deadly violence against women in close relationships. The reason I am referring to this proposal is not only because I think it is genuinely good, but also because it is an excellent example of how politicians sometimes actually betray those who have been subjected. When this discussion was at its most intense, several parties went out and demanded just a commission of accident – well, well. But the fact is that once the proposal was firmly put by the Swedish Democrats on the table of the Committee on Justice, none of the other parties joined. Of course, hypothetically, it could be that one has changed in the days that have gone between play-offs and sharp proposals and no longer wants to see an accident commission. However, I cannot help but wonder whether it might not actually have more to do with this particular proposal coming from the Swedish Democrats. If that were the case, Madam President, I think it is very unfortunate. After all, we are not putting forward political proposals for our own sake; we are doing so for those we are supposed to represent, in this case women who are victims of violence. I really can only regret that in this case we did not live up to our responsibilities. This is precisely what I intend to conclude my speech with. It is interesting and important, but unfortunately the responsibility is often placed on the wrong person. It is not the responsibility of women not to be attacked and beaten. Women should not stay at home so as not to challenge fate. Women should not have to go underground to escape their perpetrators. 100% responsibility is to be placed on the perpetrator. He's the one who's moving. He's the one who's being locked up. He's the one who should be deprived of his freedom. Everything else is simply wrong. Our responsibility as politicians is to do exactly everything in our power to ensure that we continue to be one of the world's least equal countries and that all women can get home.
i-V3VitQrwhX45sY2mRP7Jpc	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Åsa Lindhagen and Minister Lena Micko. An issue shall be of a horizontal, general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-269	Madam President, I would like Three shootings in 36 hours — several records have been recorded during this government's reign, but they are not very positive. It's about the number of deaths from gun violence and shootings and explosions. It is also about insecurity. The other day, the Brå report showed that we are also exceptional in terms of gang crime from a European perspective. The Moderates want to criminalize gang participation. We want to criminalise roadblocks set up by criminal gangs. We want to be able to listen to people who are active in criminal gangs without any real crime suspicion. These are three things that the government says no to. It is said that roadblocks are already criminalised in the context of traffic offences. My question to Minister Damberg is: Is he willing to change this?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-272	Madam President, I would like We do a great deal in Sweden to increase security and reduce insecurity. Exceptional efforts are being made to expand the police and tighten penalties for gang-related crime. We have done some things that have really made a difference because we have 1 000 more prisoners today compared to two years ago. We also see that the combined mass of sentences is growing, i.e. that both more and longer prison sentences are imposed in gang environments. This is important. But it is also a matter of focusing on the penalties and efforts that have the most impact, and then my priority is not to criminalise something that is already criminalised.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-274	Madam President, I would like Then I must repeat and perhaps even clarify my question. Will the Social Democrats therefore vote against the criminalisation of roadblocks set up by gang criminals because there is already such a traffic offence? In that case, it must be something crazy. Will the Minister perhaps reconsider this position and vote in favour of the Moderates' proposal to criminalise roadblocks?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-276	Madam President, I would like My focus is not to criminalize something that is already criminalised. My focus is to tighten the penalties for those who threaten witnesses, for those who commit drug offences in Sweden and deal in drugs and for those who involve young people in gang crime. They're supposed to have sharper penalties, and we're going to keep on doing that. In addition, we will continue the expansion of the Police Authority with 5 000 more police officers in the coming years and will invest further in preventive work to prevent young people from being recruited into criminal gangs.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-278	Madam President, I would like The situation in Hjällbo and Angered has been out of control during the week. People living there feel fear and acquiescence in the face of increasing violence. The other day Aftonbladet interviewed a middle-aged woman living in the area; Fatima was called there. She told her own son about her concern. True, he is not a criminal," she says, but she is sure that he lives in criminal settings and sells drugs. What, then, is her solution, Madam President? Expulsion – nothing else would help but expel criminals. They have used freedom in the wrong way, she says, and are even willing to have their own son expelled. I'm the first person to sign the paper in court," she says. In this connection, I would like to ask Minister Damberg to explain to Fatima and all the other law-abiding immigrants and Swedes why the government has not made sure that criminal foreigners have been expelled during all these years in power.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-282	Madam President, I would like It was a very serious situation we had in Hjällbo, with the violence and the uncertainty it spread. I note that the police have acted and arrested people linked to the events, which I think is very important in order to restore confidence and show great presence. With regard to the question of deporting criminals, there is today a regulatory framework that allows the expulsion of people convicted of serious crimes from Sweden. The government has also ordered an investigation, which will be conducted within three weeks, where the investigator will suggest how it will be easier to expel persons who have committed serious crimes from Sweden. I'm looking forward to that investigation. It is also the case that Sweden currently has quite overcrowded prisons, so it would be good to expel to a greater extent than today so that we can fill our prisons with the criminals that the police are now caged in.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-285	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government cannot explain why, year after year, the Government has ignored the expulsion of criminal foreigners. Instead, it is said that there will be an investigation, and that has been the term used in this House. Everything is pushed to the future, and the end result becomes watered down and meaningless again. I would therefore like to repeat the question: can the government promise Fatima that all criminal foreigners will be out of our country?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-287	Madam President, I would like I note that it is courts that decide on sanctions, including prison sentences and, where appropriate, expulsion. The government is not the main actor in this decision. What we have decided is that more people who commit serious crimes will be deported. I do not know whether the questioner is serious about expelling all people who have ever been convicted of a crime from Sweden. That would be going pretty far. I do not believe that there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament for this.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-290	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, many of us felt we had had enough. A social problem that has grown over the years and leaves us no rest is violence in close relationships, or men's violence against women. A few weeks ago, there were five murders in quite a short time. It set in motion processes. I know my party leader got angry and wrote on Twitter. Several responded, and the government invited for talks. Since then, a great deal has happened. We have processed reports in the Committee on Justice which we have just debated, before this Question Time, and will continue to debate afterwards, where many different policy proposals will go through and be announcements to the government. The government has also expressed a willingness to deal with this. At the same time, we are reading in Svenska Dagbladet an article in which the police warn that these particular cases are being prioritised far too low. The priority is to reduce violence in close relationships. There are currently 923 open cases waiting to be investigated, says the article.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-294	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by welcoming the broad consensus and consensus that exists between the parties in Parliament on many of these issues. We are many parties that are committed to combating men's violence against women, a social problem that is not always given as much attention as gang-related crime and which, in its structure, is also a little more hidden because much of the violence and psychological abuse takes place within four walls. It is incredibly important that we have a consensus on prioritising these issues further ahead. I note that the Police Authority has chosen to give priority to these issues. 350 new investigators have been hired to deal specifically with just this type of crime. I have also made a decision – now, in fact – to instruct Brå to follow up on the major expansion of the Police Authority. One of the assignments will be about how the Police Authority has now strengthened its work precisely against men's violence against women.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-296	Madam President, I would like That's the way it is, isn't it? But words are words and actions are actions. We must see concrete action to ensure that this priority continues. It must not be the case that after a few weeks we forget about this issue and talk again about other types of crime. We must now maintain violence in close relations and men's violence against women. We must not lose our grip now that we have finally made a connection on this issue. We have to follow it all the way out. I am looking for clearer pledges from the government to ensure that this issue continues to be a priority.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-298	Madam President, I would like I can promise Johan Hedin and the whole House that we will not let go of this issue. We decided several years ago on a ten-year strategy against men's violence against women. It is not about individual efforts but about structural, long-term work. We are now changing that work further. Amongst other things, we will tighten the penalties for gross women's freedom. We will be able to work with anklets in first-time crimes to a greater extent. Let's look at the right of access. We are looking at preventive work, not least how these violations are detected much earlier in order to avoid violence.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-300	Madam President, I would like Sweden's pensioners have been forced to blow. People who have worked since they were 15 years old don't get a pension that you can live on. Sweden has the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. There is talk of the need to raise pensions, but what people who have worked as construction workers, carers and nurses see is that there are very few crowns in the envelope. The Left Party has put forward a proposal to open a pension discussion with us who want to raise pensions, that we together release prestige and take responsibility for people being able to live on their pensions. Will the government and the Social Democrats support this proposal?
i-6AHqkmZq959gBB7q5GvfSn	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Ida Gabrielsson! Pensions are too low in our country. The general pension is on average SEK 11 800 for women, before tax. It concerns the pension for many nurses, child care workers and all those who work in welfare. We can't be like this. The government's agenda in this area is about raising pensions. There will be a pension increase in September. A pension supplement will be introduced and will be paid out in September, which means an increase of more than SEK 7 000 per year for those groups that have worked for a long time but have a low pension. However, we are not satisfied with this. The next natural step is to increase pension provision so that we can continue to increase the pension even after September when the pension supplement is introduced. We are working very intensively on this issue and intend to produce solid evidence on how an increase in pension provision can be made and what effects it will have on our citizens.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-305	Madam President, I would like What pensioners have been given above all is an increased retirement age, rather than having gone in together to ensure that there is money in the system and that it is distributed fairly. I wonder whether the Social Democrats will continue to bury the issue for us citizens and other politicians and allow the Moderates to act as brake blocks so that the low pensions can last, or whether we want to discuss it with those of us who are prepared to raise pensions precisely for the nurse, the construction worker and the one who has toiled in welfare.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-306	Madam President, I would like The views of Ida Gabrielsson on the views of the Moderate Coalition Party may be addressed to the Moderates. The government has a very clear agenda: pensions should be raised. It is not just about our long-term work on the issue of pension contributions, but there will be an increase in pensions already in September. It is important that Parliament's parties now work together to increase pensions so that we can ensure that our elderly people receive financial security.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-309	Madam President, I would like My question is whether Minister Mikael Damberg has read Svenska Dagbladet today. There Jerry Nicklasson, who is a police officer and head protection officer at the Stockholm South Police Unit, writes crimes in close relationships, under the heading This involves, among other things, the withdrawal of retired police officers who have previously worked hours for reasons of saving. It's an arrest for civilian investigators. Cops end up in the department, and it's hard to recruit. The pressured work situation drives police officers to sick leave. Nicklasson writes that responsible politicians portray how much resources they invest in helping women. The most vulnerable victims, vulnerable women and children deserve much better. When will the government really realize the seriousness, Mikael Damberg?
i-UQy7rm9VEUPDJMt48y8yYC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Andreas Carlson, for an important issue on the same subject as before, men's violence against women. Here there is a historical debt. The police department has had too few employees and too little competence directed against this particular type of crime. That is why the government and my most important task is to make the Police Authority grow. There's billions of dollars a year to the police department to make it grow, both with civilian investigators and with police officers. We're halfway there; we're going to continue that work. Then it is the Police Authority that allocates resources in the context of this exceptional increase in the number of police employees. I note, however, that last year 350 investigators were employed specifically to investigate this type of crime. At the police department, you're very proud that you've taken that step. I am not sure that will be enough, because crimes of this kind are serious crimes and should be considered as serious as gang crime.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-314	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damberg says he's not sure it'll be enough. We can say that we can be sure that it will not be enough when we get this type of alarm reports from a main safety officer. We have also been told from various parts of the country that it cannot afford to reinstate retired police officers when the situation is as it is. The Christian Democrats set aside a total of 5.4 billion more in their shadow budget and have a targeted effort precisely to be able to reinstate retired police officers. It would be welcome if Mikael Damberg would also come forward with such proposals.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-316	Madam President, I would like The police department gets 2,000 million more this year than last year. It is therefore a major expansion, in line with the political authority's demand for growth in order to reach 10 000 more police workers. I can also say that the chief police officer is very clear that if there is capacity among seniors and pensioners, these should be put into service if it is judged appropriate. I assume the chief of police will do what is necessary to use the expertise that may have left the police department. But there are fewer who quit and more who are re-recruited, which is good.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-318	Madam President, I would like My uncle shouldn't be my father-in-law too. It's a pretty simple rule. But cousin marriages are particularly common in vulnerable areas and in criminal clans. They enable and maintain the power and control of the family collective over the children and their future. Children are promised away early and forced into arranged marriages. We must act when we see how criminal clans like Ali Khan from Hammarkullen have put terror throughout northeastern Gothenburg and perhaps even throughout the city. Democracy is under threat in these areas. In 2014, when I was checked into the Swedish parliament, I had my polling station in Hjällbo center. Today I would not have dared to have a polling station in Hjällbo center. Liberals demand that an investigation be set up to stop cousin marriages and to make it easier to take care of children in clans who are at risk of radicalizing and subjected to honorary violence.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-323	Madam President, I would like These are terrible events in the center of Hjällbo that we have witnessed. Once again, there will be a discussion about the influence of criminal networks that can threaten democracy and how these networks have been allowed to advance their positions in a completely unacceptable way. That's why we have to move the state back. We must be very clear that all residential areas should have a clear presence of the police but also ensure that Swedish law applies regardless of who commits crimes and that there should not be parallel legal systems. However, I want to put this with Hjällbo a little in perspective. The Gothenburg police have worked incredibly powerfully in recent years. Before this terrible thing happened, most people in Hjällbo felt that it had gone in the right direction and that it had been less violent for a long time. Let us not now roll back the active work. Part of the active work is the collaboration with the City of Gothenburg, which has been about having been much more active also working against the influence of certain family groups in the city.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-325	Madam President, I would like It's good that the Home Secretary talks to the police there. But I have relatives who live in this area, and I can honestly say that when I grew up in the 80s and 90s there was a very nice atmosphere there, when I was there in the early 2000s it was not a nice atmosphere there, and when it comes to how it is today I have to say: Sorry, but it is not worthy of Sweden to have this kind of residential area. The minister didn't answer my question. Is the Minister prepared to ban cousin marriages, and what does he intend to do to take care of the children of clan relatives who today threaten teachers in schools, for example, when they raise the issue of Israel – the Palestine conflict?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-327	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important to be clear that all threats to government officials should be taken very seriously. It is society that sets up the school curriculum, and it is we who decide what is taught no matter what families or families think. We have also seen how the municipalities have used the legislation precisely around the risk of children being radicalised or in danger very badly. There is now room for the Social Welfare Board to take care of children, such as those who have come from conflict areas in Iraq and Syria. But it is not the government that makes those decisions, but social services do.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-329	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Lena Micko and is about social dumping. One should expect all municipalities in Sweden to assume their responsibilities for their inhabitants, but unfortunately this is not always the case. Instead of ensuring that more housing is built that people with lower incomes can demand and instead of focusing on getting people to work, some municipalities engage in social dumping. The Chairman of the Welfare Board of Kramfors stated to the newspaper Hem & Hyra that since 2017 the municipality has received 70 new residents through social dumping. Among other things, Moderate controlled Solna has ensured that socially vulnerable Solna residents move to Kramfors by helping them with living and renting the first time. At the same time, Solna celebrates with cake that the municipality's own costs of support have been reduced. Of course, this is not the way to proceed, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Civil Affairs: what do we know today about the extent of this problem and do not run away from several municipalities in this way?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-333	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for a very important question! Kramfors municipality was the municipality that put me on the trail when it comes to how systematic this is. The government commissioned Statskontoret to investigate this phenomenon, and it turned out that this is more common than we thought. In some 60 per cent of the municipalities that were asked, one could see that this was systematized in a conscious way and that it was also about very different individuals. It is serious that we have not been able to remedy this before. That is why it is now a priority for the government.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-335	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is clear that this is very widespread and that we are shoveling problems between us instead of ensuring that people really get into work and get the support they need to do it.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-338	Madam President, I would like We have taken the initiative that the county boards have been tasked with solving this in several different ways together with the municipalities. You have to work together. It is not that we have a no-man's-land, but each municipality has responsibility for its own residents and for the housing supply. It is incredibly important to point that out. At the same time, the government has also taken legislative initiatives. We have legislation that is partly about the possibility of ensuring that it is implemented and partly about strengthening it. In particular, the penalty is imposed on property owners who do not behave properly. More needs to be done too.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-340	I would like to draw the attention of all Members and Ministers to the fact that there are time limits.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-341	Madam President, I would like Recently, in the media, we have been able to follow criminal cases about match fixing. Match fixing is a problem that affects sport and risks confidence in sport. It is, of course, also a crime-related issue linked to organised crime and money laundering. It is also something that risks confidence in the gaming companies overall.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for this important question! The Swedish state is back. Since 1 January 2019, the state has regained control of the gambling market after several decades of the Wild West in this area. Now we have authorities that control the gambling market, we have a licensing system, we have supervision and we have sanctions. Since 1 January 2021, there are also regulations on which gaming objects are prohibited precisely because we want to strengthen the work to combat match fixing. We are following this work closely, and the government's special investigator Gunnar Larsson is currently working on developing proposals on how to intensify the work. We have also introduced a special crime linked to match fixing. We see match fixing as a serious threat not only to Swedish sports but to trust in our society. That is why this is a very priority area. There are those who do not like these regulations and sanctions, but they are needed. They're necessary.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am glad that this issue is taken seriously as it deserves. This is a big problem that also has many bottoms. I am also pleased with the reforms that have been made in the past on this, but because they have been made, one must not fail to grasp what remains. The fact that there is an investigation is, of course, a good thing, and I hope that action will be taken and that other relevant ministers responsible for sport and also the Minister for the Interior will be involved in it. I think it's in everyone's interest.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-350	Madam President, I would like We have very close cooperation between different authorities and in the government on the issue of match fixing. Gunnar Larsson's investigation looks specifically at what needs to be done in order for our authorities to be more coordinated in the fight against match fixing. We also have a very close dialogue with the Swedish Sports Movement and above all the Swedish Football Association. It is because we see that the risks are high in certain specific sports. As far as the wishes of the Football Federation are concerned, we have taken action on the part of the government.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-352	Madam President, I would like Coast Guard in Sweden works around the clock. Men and women guard our borders, do fisheries controls and much more. Unfortunately, for several years the agency has announced financial imbalances and left more money to the government. The Coast Guard has received more information but has not received more money to the same extent. If the Agency is not allocated increased appropriations, the financial situation will of course be embarrassing. The Coast Guard will then need to take steps to stay within the existing financial framework. This could include, for example, reducing the number of ships, reviewing and merging stations, deprioritising the capabilities of the military part of the total defense or postponing the transition to fossil-free fuel.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-355	Madam President, I would like Coast Guards play a very important role in Sweden, in peacetime but also in the event of increased preparedness and war. It is a unique competence available at the Coast Guard. The fleet they have is also a unique asset for other authorities when they need to carry out their duties. The Authority has had major economic problems historically. It is now in a more stable situation, thanks to changes in budgetary spending and other things over time. It is also natural for the authorities to submit requests for budget preparation. So has the Coast Guard now. They are, of course, being prepared for the regular budgetary process this autumn.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-359	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Lena Micko. A few weeks ago SVT reported that more and more small loan companies are marketing SMS loans to buy shares. Many young people are attracted to take out expensive loans for risky investments. This is done despite the fact that gambling on credit must be prohibited in Sweden. The lucrative industry for expensive quick loans is growing. Also one of Sweden's largest evening newspapers has its own loan page that attracts readers to take loans with quick payments at high interest rates.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-363	Madam President, I would like The issue of over-indebtedness is very important. I would say that they are much wider than just stock purchases. The government has taken a number of different measures. But we are also aware – it is not least about the pandemic – that over-indebtedness has increased. Both the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority also have views on what needs to be strengthened. Right now, the government is working on preparing how to proceed.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-366	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Micko. Barely a year ago, the Center Party initiated a review of the entire municipal tax equalisation system. A united parliament supported it, focusing on ensuring a guaranteed level of service across the country, stimulating growth and jobs and taking greater account of sparseness. In my own county we are still waiting for a solution for how we will manage to have better health care on Gotland in the future. It needs to be included in such an investigation. My simple question is, how does the government work with that? When do we see the start of a complete overhaul of the tax equalisation system?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-370	Madam President, I would like This is indeed an important issue when it comes to the whole equalisation system, Lars Thomsson. It was not long since the Riksdag decided on a new system that should take account of sparseness, socio-economic criteria and more. The announcement is something we prepare. We see that we really need to discuss the conditions for achieving even greater impact in many of the areas. So we will come back in the near future with answers to how to proceed.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-372	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Mikael Damberg. Over the past year, we have lived with great limitations on our rights and freedoms. One of the greatest restrictions concerns our ability to come together and, for example, to express opinions. The Left Party is concerned that the Pandemic Act seems to be being interpreted and applied in different ways around the country. For example, the police have intervened at least once against a manifestation in which the participants travelled by car, on the grounds that there were more than eight cars. But when up to 2,000 football fans gathered this weekend, it was not classed as a general assembly. So no action was taken. The police press speaker said that some form of public opinion is required for it to be classified as a public assembly. To cheer on a team and together express your love for the team is not classed as a general assembly. My question to Mikael Damberg is whether he shares the concerns of the Left Party regarding the application and interpretation of the Pandemic Act and whether the Government intends to follow up and evaluate the law and, if so, how.
i-Ud2BipJ49orvaYHCCRzrZ8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Wetterling, for the question! We have a situation where we have limited people's ability to meet and gather, given the pandemic. Now it seems that the spread of infection is decreasing quite strongly in Sweden. We hope for continued relief and increased opportunities to meet, gather, demonstrate and go to football. We are heading in that direction, thanks to the reduction in the spread of infection and also the vaccinations. I'm not going to comment on how the Police Authority interprets law. It's not my role as a member of the government. However, I can note that the Police Authority is actively working to try to coordinate interpretations across the country. There is a coordination forum, and there is a meeting between the licensing departments to use common terminology as far as possible, but also to take equal decisions. My hope is that the Pandemic Act itself will not have to apply indefinitely without us being able to go back to the old Order Act.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-380	Madam President, I would like The work of reviewing our pension system does not take a break. It is necessary if we are to have a sustainable system of pensions that provides a reasonable level of compensation. The introduction of a rich age was very important. An increasing average life expectancy means that pensions will automatically be lower if we do not adjust the target age. However, it focuses on exit from the labour market. In my question to the Minister for Social Security, I take note of its entry. If Sweden's graduates were to establish themselves two years earlier on the labour market, as in many other OECD countries, bnp would increase by SEK 52 billion and public finances would improve by SEK 21 billion. The high degree ages in Sweden have, above all, consequences for the individual in the pension envelope. A previous establishment improves this. My question is this: does the Minister intend also to look at whether and how we could bring the establishment of the labour market forward?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-384	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Eklind, for this important question! It is an issue outside the pension area, but it is definitely relevant to the outcome and affects pensions. There have been ambitions among several governments in modern times in Sweden to work for young people to establish themselves faster in the labour market. This government has taken a variety of measures. In particular, it involves investment in education and training so that young people are given the opportunity to establish themselves early. This will enable us to simply create the conditions for people to earn their first pension points faster and earlier and thus also raise their pension. It must also be borne in mind that the social partners have agreed to lower the minimum age for the acquisition of occupational pensions. It will also affect the overall pension. It is very welcome. It also reduces the gaps in the pension system.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-388	Madam President, I would like I have a question about green credit guarantees to Minister Åsa Lindhagen. Hopefully, when we come out of this pandemic at some point, we have a lot of societal challenges left. An important one is to change Sweden in a climate-smart direction, to meet the climate goals that are so crucial for our planet's and our survival. There is an incredible interest in hydrogen in all its colours. We in the Liberals think it should preferably be green hydrogen. In the triangle between the state, Swedish progressive and talented companies and research, there is an interest in getting started with a lot of interesting projects. My question is whether the government is prepared to present a clear plan to deliver green credit guarantees for investments in future green energy supply?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-391	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Member of Parliament, for a very important issue concerning the transformation of society as a whole! My absolute conviction is that the state has an important role to play in stimulating and being a catalyst for the enormous power that exists in our industry. We see how it is now expressed in the northern parts of Sweden. There you change society and create jobs, which gives hope and faith in the future. In this, the work that the government has done in the Industrial Sector is extremely important, as is the work on green credit guarantees. There we will take steps forward. The state should help to facilitate and stimulate companies that want to change their operations and drive forward in sustainable projects that lead Sweden forward. We will take steps forward on green credit guarantees.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-394	Madam President, I would like I'm asking Lena Micko my question. Now Sweden is strengthening the police. We get a much higher government presence in the form of police officers and police cars around our country. My personal view is that it is also important that other parts of the state mark presence throughout the country. I come from Uppsala County, and we eat cake today because we recently received news that we have a service office in Gottsunda and one in Östhammar. My question is what the next step is like. It is my conviction that we must build this country together, and this is an important part of it. What is the government's roadmap forward?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-397	Madam President, I would like Gustaf Lantz raises a very important question. It is really about the presence and commitment of the state throughout our country. My ambition and that of the government is to continue with the expansion of service offices. More authorities will be able to join in time. We also try this in different ways. I believe in closer cooperation with the municipalities. We also need to look at different forms. It can be about mobile solutions and different trials in municipalities, regions and other actors. It is clear that the presence of society, the presence of the state, and the role of the municipalities in this is extremely important to show that we care about all residents. We will therefore continue with this work.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-399	Madam President, I would like Åkerp, Hjulsta, Hjällbo, Husby and Malmö are some of the places where shootings have taken place in recent days. In most cases, it has been fatal. In line with this, the government's statements have changed from the fact that the shootings will be reduced to counting on it to be pushed into gang-criminal environments and that conflicts may flare up. But, Madam President, what exactly is a gang-critical environment? Well, it's residential areas – areas with Ica on the square, with primary schools and preschools and benches where older people sit and have coffee and play chess in the sun. Housing areas for ordinary people are also the environment of gang criminals. Against this background, I wonder whether Minister Damberg really believes that the environment of gang criminals is different from that of our common societies. Isn't it worth saving the people in them?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-402	Madam President, I would like My message is very clear. We're not going to get used to this level of shooting and violence in gang-criminal environments. What I have said is that there will be further shootings. I do not believe that the problems that have been built up for decades in Sweden, where segregation has been stuck and where drug sales have had to be established so that open drug scenes have been created, which has thus been able to create an infrastructure for gang-critical activities in many parts of our country, can be reversed by a finger snap. Now, however, we are increasing the presence of the police. We've given the police the opportunity to set up cameras to disrupt open drug trafficking. We have a thousand more people in custody than we did two years ago. This has been described by the National Police Commissioner as a new location and as a window to work to break the recruitment process and ensure that more people leave the criminal environments. But it is absolutely true that these residential areas belong to us. We will take them back through the state presence, through the police and preferably more service offices, to show that the state is moving back and that the gang criminals are allowed to move.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-405	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Finance. The PPM pension is the selectable part of the general pension where you can decide how to place your own money. But the government/pension group believes that freedom of choice is too great and therefore proposes increased government power over how common savers should invest their pension money. There are several problems with what I do not have time to go into now, but what I want to focus on is that the government would have preferred to have completely abolished the PPM. What's the problem with that? Well, if the PPM were to be abolished, it would mean for the future pensioners 3 000 SEK less per month. My question is this: was the aim of the government to abolish the PPM and thus reduce our pensions, or has it changed its mind for tactical reasons?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-407	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Dennis Dioukarev, for the question. The division of responsibility in the government is such that I am responsible for questions about the premium pension. It is one of the areas that are subject to reform in accordance with the pension agreement that exists from 2017. It is a broad agreement reached with the parties in the Pensions Group, i.e. the four bourgeois parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The aim is to increase the security of pension savers, our citizens, through the reform. The idea is to ensure that the Swedish state takes its share of the responsibility to make the environment for pension savers safe. This should have been done a long time ago, but it was not done before. As a result, we now have at least two legal proceedings in which Swedish pension savers have lost their money. I am very pleased that the parties in the Pensions Group have agreed to resolve this. It should be done as soon as possible. Swedish citizens also deserve security in the pension system.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-412	Madam President, I would like I have a general policy issue which spans a number of policy areas. Even before the coronapandemy, Sweden had between 60 000 and 80 000 young people under 25, who did not work, study or participate in any form of labour market intervention. It is a group of young people of the same size as the City of Norrköping, and what we can judge they do nothing but sit at home. This is one of the reasons why the Center Party has pushed for a better matching of the Swedish labour market through a reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service. In this way, we would reduce the risk of young people ending up between the chairs. But, Madam President, the coronap pandemic has exacerbated this crisis. Although it is difficult to assess the scale of the problem, we can assume that there is a real risk that the size of this group will explode after secondary schools have been closed and have only had home schooling.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-417	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for an important question! The issue is not new, but before the pandemic we worked to give municipalities a clearer follow-up responsibility towards these young people so that they do not end up between the chairs. The pandemic has hit some sectors of the economy particularly hard. This applies precisely to those sectors that often have the first job for many young people, but also to people who are far removed from the labour market. As we begin to roll back some of the restrictions, we already notice how these parts of the economy are taking off again. I received reports yesterday on the news that more young people seem to be getting jobs again and that unemployment is falling, which is gratifying. However, a great deal of effort is needed for some young people who lack education. Major efforts are needed to capture those who did not enjoy digital education during the pandemic. 1 billion has been set aside for it. In addition, in the short term, we have invested heavily in summer jobs so that young people who finish high school will not have to face the summer with unemployment, but instead can go directly to a summer job.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-421	Madam President, I would like Recently one could hear a short programme on Swedish Radio regarding the municipalities' emergency preparedness. I and the Minister for the Interior have talked about this earlier in this House, but it is so incredibly important. Now that we are hopefully approaching the end of the more acute phase of the pandemic, we can look back on the rather large gaps in emergency preparedness that both municipalities and regions have shown. This is particularly serious because municipalities and regions are in charge of the activities that are absolutely closest to people. This is the part of welfare on which many of us are directly dependent. It has to work, and it is especially noticeable now in a crisis. The programme's review showed that even before the pandemic it was known that municipalities and regions, but especially municipalities, had a relatively low level of crisis preparedness. I wonder how the Minister for the Interior views this issue.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-425	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for an important question! Now we are building society's crisis preparedness long-term and structured. In addition, we are revitalising civil defence, which was unfortunately abolished a number of decades ago. The municipalities are a central player in this. There are a few different parts. Some are about health care and the whole part of the contingency planning that was not in place for the pandemic, with stockpiling and so on. We have already had an investigation before the pandemic that has proposed how we should clarify the roles. It proposes more stockpiling and that we should be able to work with production to ensure that we have what we need. In a broader perspective and within the framework of civil defence, we allocated SEK 100 million to the municipal sector already after 2018 to work with contingency planning in a clearer way. But there will be more, not least after the major investigation into civil defence goes ahead with the work where we strengthen preparedness and planning throughout society.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-431	Madam President, I would like There's a retirement disorder spreading throughout the country. It feeds on the fact that Sweden has one of the world's toughest regulations when it comes to sickness benefit. It's a remnant after the alliance government. The system means that, in particular, those who have worked for a long time in a hard and heavy working life, often women in welfare or other working-class occupations, in the final stage of working life, are forced to twirl their pension money instead of getting the right to financial support from society. My question to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and the government is therefore: What is the work like? And when do we put in place a valve for older workers that guarantees everyone financial security and that we do not have to twirl their pension money?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-434	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for the question. Sweden is the only country in the Nordic countries that lacks a valve for the elderly worn out. Nurses, child care workers, construction workers and warehouse workers who wear out their entire working life and wear out their bodies have no economic valve when they are close to retirement age and lose their working capacity due to wear-out. We can't have that. This summer, an investigation proposal on an elderly valve – a valve for older people worn out so that our older people who have struggled and worn out in an entire working life will not have to take out their old-age pension early and thus lower their pension for the rest of their lives. This is a matter of decency. And this is an even more topical issue in view of the fact that the retirement age will be increased by 2023. Then we must have a solution for the people who still work with the body and who rip out the body. It must, of course, be combined with long-term efforts to improve the working environment and working conditions so that as few people as possible wear out their bodies. These people deserve security, and we get suggestions on our table this summer.
i-7idP65ggbWVeoundmXpCVT	Madam President, I would like In March 2015, the Riksdag decided to set up a game agency to deal with hunting and game conservation issues. In May 2016, another decision was taken in the Riksdag to establish this authority and that it would be clear in 2016. Despite these two very clear decisions in this Parliament, the government has still not set up the Wildlife Authority, as the Riksdag has requested. So it has been over six years since the first decision was taken.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-441	Madam President, I would like When it comes to issues of how to organise the public, which authorities we should have and the division of responsibilities between them, there are often quite complex issues, where one has to decide both who is responsible for what, how it is to be implemented and how any transfer of responsibilities is to take place. This work must be done seriously. Today, I do not have a timetable for the work to report to Parliament because that is not my specific question in the government either.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-443	I would remind you that questions of a general political nature or the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State are the basis for Question Time.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-444	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. Pensions today are so low that they boil among the country's pensioners. Despite work and hard work for many years, pensioners today receive shamefully little of their salary in retirement. The Government of Shekarabi has on several occasions gone out saying that the Social Democrats intend to increase contributions to the pension system. Whether or not the Government has brought the Pensions Group into this has, however, been a bit of a circus to follow. In debates in the Social Security Committee, members of the Social Democrats have said that the Pensions Group now agrees to review contributions to the pension system. At the same time, the Government is hovering on the case of direct questions as to whether the Pensions Group is in agreement or not. I think it is time that Minister Shekarabi put the cards on the table here today. Is the Pensions Group agreed to strengthen pension provision or not? If not, why is it more important to maintain this pension group than to go to work and present a proposal that can actually raise pensions with the support of a majority in Parliament?
i-3qMcYvJhhvrfNpY6ocHLTk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the issue of pensions! Firstly, we cannot wait for a pension contribution increase. Pensions need to be increased here and now; that is why the pension supplement comes in September and starts to be paid out then to our pensioners. Pensions must be raised here and now also for our existing pensioners. Then there is an agreement in the Pensions Group that there should be a review. We're doing that right now. The government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have taken a clear stand on the need to raise pensions. We need to increase pension contributions so that we increase contributions to the pension system and can continue to raise pensions even after September. Whether the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties join this line remains to be seen. It is a choice that these parties must make. I am not responsible for the position of the Moderate Coalition Party on the issue of pensions. I can refer Julia Kronlid to the internal discussions that the collaboration between the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates has if it is the case that the issue concerns the Moderate position. However, the government and the Social Democrats have taken a stand that pensions must also be increased by a fee increase so that we increase the provision.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-454	Madam President, I would like Pandemin has exposed reefs in Swedish welfare and also in Swedish preparedness. When the first cases of covid-19 were discovered in Sweden and we quickly got a community spread, protective equipment was missing in many places. In spite of very difficult conditions and with very great efforts from the staff, the medical services succeeded in fulfilling their mission. After all, society was strong. However, the risk has increased. We know that climate change is leading to increasing risks of floods, fires and natural disasters. Now comes summer – longed for but not without risks. Last summer, the number of drowning incidents broke record. The summers of 2014 and 2018 were both marked by large forest fires.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-458	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Serkan Köse, for a very relevant question! We can go back only a few years, to 2018. Then we got a warm summer with huge forest fires that characterized and plagued Sweden. Then it turned out that our emergency preparedness was not strong enough. Local rescue services fought and tried to extinguish the fires but had it very difficult. Finally, we received support from the rest of Europe to put out the fires. One area where we have really focused on systematically strengthening our preparedness is precisely fire-fighting. In addition to the fact that we now have new legislation in place, which means that the municipalities will participate in management systems, MSB has received more money from the government, so that they have more depots for fire equipment. They have at least 10 helicopters capable of combating forest fires from the air. For the first time, we also have four small aircraft that can help. In addition, we have the Rachel system and the management system on standby. We are much more prepared to deal with forest fires for the summer. I can come back to other issues later.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-462	Madam President, I would like We Moderates have prioritised in our budget to completely remove the difference in taxation between pensioners and those who work. Ardalan Shekarabi and the Social Democrats tend to say beautifully that they want to remove this difference. The January parties promised to do so by 2020, but they have all failed to do so. In fact, the tax cuts that the Social Democratic-led government has brought forward benefit only those who have pensions of over SEK 17 200 a month, not the poor women that the Government is happy to talk about. We Moderates lower the tax by four times as much as the government. That's our priority. My question to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi is: when will the Social Democrats go from words to deeds and lower taxes for all pensioners?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-466	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for the question. I welcome the fact that she admits that it was problematic to introduce pensioner tax, the gap that arose when the Alliance introduced the job tax credit. It is good that the pensioner tax is also called into question by moderates, who were involved in creating the gap. This government has acted to abolish the unjust pensioner's tax. The decisions have been made. It is very important that this is done. But let me stress that the tax incentives and the necessary decision to abolish the unjust pensioner's tax do not replace the need to increase pensions. Pensions must be increased in parallel with tax cuts, so that our pensioners receive a decent pension. Action and decision-making are needed. We're waiting for that.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-469	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. On Sunday, in the middle of the day, a man was shot to death in the Hjällbo district of Gothenburg. On Monday, it was time in Husby. There another man was shot to death, and in nearby Hjulsta the next shooting took place only a few hours later. In all cases, the police investigate gang-related crimes. That is how it is in the society that this and previous governments have created. I don't know how many times the Prime Minister has said that the criminal gangs should be broken. However, it is quite clear that the government's efforts are not enough. We Swedish democrats have stated, among other things, that there is a need for considerably higher penalties for gang criminals, criminalisation of gang participation and compulsory expulsion of criminal foreigners. Are you in the government satisfied with the society you have created? Will you continue with the milk policy, or are you prepared to listen to the opposition and to put a hard on with regard to the criminal gangs?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-474	Madam President, I would like We will continue to fight the criminal gangs hard. We have 1 000 more people in custody today than two years ago. We have tightened the penalties for gang crime, but we are waiting for an investigation that comes up with its proposals for further tightening of penalties for gang crime linked to drug trafficking, recruitment of young people and also in general, so that crimes committed in gang environments will receive stricter penalties. It is inspired by Denmark, among other things. In three weeks, an investigation will make it easier to expel people who commit crimes. We will continue to work very consistently and hard on this. It is terrible when these acts happen. I hope and believe that the new situation described by the National Police Commissioner, as we have seen in the first months of this year, where there have been fewer shootings than last year, will last for several years. In that case, we must continue to put heavy pressure on the gangs, break the recruitment process and ensure that funding for the criminal gangs is strangled.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-478	Madam President, I would like Russia's ambitions to use nuclear power as a geopolitical means of power are well known in the West. The Czech Government has decided to exclude the Russian energy company Rosatom from the possibility to tender for the Czech Republic's largest infrastructure project, the construction of a new nuclear power plant. The Czech Government indicates safety reasons for the exclusion. The European Parliament recently adopted a resolution on Russia calling for an end to Rosatom in Europe. At the same time, State Waterfall has an agreement with Rosatom regarding nuclear fuel supplies to Ringhals in my home county. I would therefore like to ask Minister Damberg: in what way does the government intend to capture Russia's ambitions to use nuclear energy as a means of power in the new security policy strategy?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-480	Madam President, I would like We have a deteriorating security policy situation in our part of the world and in Europe. To a large extent, it is about Russia's actions over the last decade. That is why we are strengthening total defence, both military and civil defence, and for a very intensive European discussion on Europe's relationship with Russia and how Russia should not be allowed to try to influence European policy and Europe's internal affairs. The question of whether new nuclear power plants in different countries should perhaps be more addressed to those parties who seriously think that the state should finance the construction of new nuclear power plants. To be honest, it's more of a matter for the Moderates to think about. If you want to build new nuclear power plants in Europe, do you have any restrictions on Russian interests in this? I can't answer that question, but the Moderates will sort it out on their own.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-482	Madam President, I would like During the first months of the year, the number of shootings has decreased, but now they have started again: three shootings in the space of 24 hours, and the police fear retaliation. The French police have the right to intercept known gang criminals without any concrete criminal suspicion. The police must not do that in Sweden. The head of the Swedish police has said on several occasions that Swedish police also need this tool. We Moderates have taken a committee initiative that the police should have increased opportunities to use secret coercive measures preventively. I heard Minister Damberg say in the news the other day that he is not closing any doors in this regard. Then my question is: Will Minister Damberg take the initiative for Swedish police to have access to secret coercive measures for preventive purposes like French police? Damberg just mentioned that there were now 1 000 more detainees. This is because the French police have precisely this tool.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-486	Madam President, I would like I can only say that in Sweden we do not have the business structures that have provided these encrypted phones. In Sweden we also do not have the server halls that French police made seizures in or worked with. The Moderates are a bit sloppy when they describe it as giving Swedish police the same powers as French police. These are two completely different realities. What this government has done is to give Swedish police the opportunity to use secret data readings. The head of the Swedish police says that the right use can give an Encrochat disclosure a year. It's pretty powerful. Pikant in this context is that this proposal was on the table in 2012. The then government chose not to proceed with secret data reading. What if we could have had it for nine years! An Encrochat disclosure a year for nine years-- if it had been a reality, we wouldn't have had the problem of gang crime that we're seeing today.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-489	Madam President, I would like Swedish companies in the transport sector are exposed to distorted competition. According to law, foreign trucks that come with transport to Sweden can only make three stops during seven days in Sweden, then they must leave the country. This week we have been able to take part in media reporting about the widespread cheating of transport. Researchers have for a long time mapped thousands of trucks in Sweden in the called Cabotage study. It turns out that the benefits of cheating are greater than the penalties. The same driver who was driving illegally eight years ago still does, repeating.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-492	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! This is a very important issue. This is a sector of society that was completely liberalised. Market forces were released completely free without control systems. This led to large parts of the Swedish transport industry being flagged out and put enormous pressure on wages and conditions for Swedish haulage companies. Order and knowledge of Swedish roads is an issue that this government has prioritised both in the Swedish work and in the European discussion. We are the driving force behind these stricter rules at European level too, in order to prevent this type of exploitation. We have already tightened sanctions during our time in the government, but we are prepared to look at further measures. We have had an investigation that has looked at just how to sharpen the control functions further on Swedish roads. This is not something we should get used to. We will ensure that the hauliers and trucks that roll on Swedish roads comply with Swedish rules, so that there will be fair competition and good conditions for those who are here and so that they do not lay the foundations for criminal activities.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-498	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the parties for the support you show for the Center Party's proposal on violence in close relations in this report. It is by no means self-evident to support the movements of other parties, even if they agree in substance. And when we started preparing the report, the tone was set on Twitter and other places. Nevertheless, you showed great professionalism and great courage and leadership in putting the best in Sweden first. Together, we put violent women's interests above party interests. That promises well for the future. Let's keep it that way. Madam President, I would like Almost a year and a half ago we had a special debate on violence in close relations. It was prompted by night - black figures about the deadly violence within the four walls of the home that had taken place the year before. I had counted on a big media posse and brought a press secretary to help arrange interviews. A month before, we had had another special debate – if you remember – about the six imams who had expulsion decisions on them but where expulsions could not be carried out because enforcement obstacles got in the way. There was a lot of work going on here in the chamber foyer, and I think we all had to take interviews with most of the major media that day. Imagine my surprise when it was completely empty outside when we would then debate men's violence against women. It's a crime that harvests almost as many murder victims as gang violence. Anna, who was going to help me with press questions that day, was sitting outside waiting. A couple of journalists passed by, but they were not at all interested in either the debate or the policy proposals that might solve the serious social problem that costs more than fifteen women their lives annually. That very year it had been 22. It is a social problem that forces tens of thousands of women, but also men, to live a life of constant fear, without freedom, without hope. No one should misunderstand me on this point. The issues of enforcement barriers and threats to our security, as well as gang violence, are extremely important. But the fact is that violence against women is also a huge threat that needs to be taken seriously. The frustration about how little force is devoted to that threat started processes in us. We started a development work that resulted in the committee exercise Violence in close relationship – a social problem. We who are debating here today are now united behind several of the proposals. The shortcomings highlighted by both police and prosecutors in their internal evaluation work on violence in close relationships need to be addressed. It can also be linked to the point that we have to get to the bottom of how it can be that women can be subjected to terrible violations and serious crimes year after year, and even murdered, even though both law enforcement and social authorities are well aware that there is a serious problem of violence. The clearance rate for these offences as well as for sexual offences is catastrophically low. It has a reasonable number of causes, but these causes need to be analysed and broken down one by one, step by step, so that we can have a zero vision of violence in close relationships – and we can have it throughout the country. Therefore, competence to deal with these serious issues must also be available in all parts of the country. Anyone who, in their professional role, comes into contact with victims of violence in close relationships must have competence precisely in the area of violence in close relationships. We now agree on all of this. In doing so, Parliament gives a clear order to the government. Now it's their turn to take over the baton, sooner rather than later. The women affected cannot wait. In fact, they are literally in danger of life. Madam President, I would like One point that we did not get through this time was the proposal to automatically impose a restraining order in the event of violence in close relationships. It may seem a bit silly to highlight it now that we get through so much else, but the proposal is an important piece of the puzzle to be laid to protect the victims of violence. Not long ago, we were able to read about violent women who had not received a restraining order. In an attentive case, it went so terribly bad that a woman was murdered before she had been able to get through the restraining order that she would have received against her killer. In order to reduce the risk, we want to turn the steak around and ensure that the general rule is the ban on contact and that exceptions can then be tested instead of what is now lengthy processes that require a great deal of commitment from the victim. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 23 on the automatic decision on the anklet in the conviction of crimes in close relationship.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-513	Madam President, I would like Sex sells, ranging from delicious pictures of bikini bodies on posters in town and glamorous Instagram Reel with training clothes to just sex being sold. The opportunities to sell sex are enormous, both digitally and physically, through massage parlors, sex tourism, telephone sex lines, suction shooting and Onlyfans. The possibilities are endless, and so is probably the money flowing through this both open and hidden market. Women are often exploited in different ways. What was first fun and voluntary after a while becomes a coercion, from that more undressed images are required for the account to grow or that those photos that were put up turned out to be something completely different to that women from poor countries through the coercion of poverty end up in prostitution, human trafficking and trafficking. These are terrible situations. The stories are different, but what we know is that this is a light-hearted industry that we need to learn more about. There are 40 million prostitutes in the world. The average age is 13 years. The link between pornography, prostitution and trafficking must be investigated. The boundaries between the different areas have been blurred, and it is often the same groups of economically vulnerable or otherwise vulnerable women who are exploited in the different activities. For example, it is not uncommon for sexual abuse to be filmed and spread as pornography. Furthermore, the line between sex purchases and porno consumption has been loosened because the buyer today can order live sex online. Above all, there are major economic interests in pornography, which means that borders are blurred and sexual abuse and other forms of criminal abuse occur because it creates interest and revenue. Pornography, like trafficking and prostitution, is used as a means of power to oppress, demean and obtain financial means. Both the sex trade and the porn industry have links to other serious crime, and it is the abuse and crime we need to get at. In Sweden, a number of studies, studies and surveys have been carried out in recent decades on various aspects of activities that can be assumed to be part of the international prostitution industry. The police are asking for research into the sex trade's links to organised crime. Is it the case that gang crime receives cash not only through drugs and weapons but also through pornography and prostitution? The research study proposed by the Left Party and supported by several other parties – which is incredibly good – should identify ownership structures, the real principals and other actors in the Swedish prostitution and pornography industry, as well as massage parlors, sex and porn clubs, organisers of sex tourism trips and the mediation of prostitutes on the internet, via mobile apps, on chat lines and telephone sex lines, and via casinos and other legal gaming activities. Madam President, I would like The answer to the question of who is used and why and on whose terms is not always black or white. What starts out as a funny thing, dating an older man to supplement the poor CSN loan, can end up in rape. Publishing empowering images can end in great vulnerability. It does not have to be so, but there is a risk and we cannot be naive about such things happening. Sugard ejaculation relations consist of an arrangement between an elderly, often wealthy man and a younger woman or underage girl. Contact services are provided via dating sites or apps. According to the police, suicide is by far the most common platform where children and young people make their prostitution debut. Sugard ejaculating platforms generate, in addition to buying sex, a variety of other sexual crimes directed at children. Unfortunately, it is difficult for the police to access suction e-mail sites and get them convicted for pandering and promoting prostitution because the sites and apps used are available abroad. A similar phenomenon is Onlyfans, which is a payment site on social media. Users subscribe with varying amounts per month to enjoy exclusive images and movies. Unlike many other social media platforms, Onlyfan allows pornographic material. A closed platform that allows nudity can become an individual's liberation platform where their own sexuality can develop. But it can also be just the opposite. Young people can experience being forced to publish more and more challenging photos and videos to make fans happy. Where the limit is for buying sex is a difficult balance, but when platforms are created there must be an awareness that opportunities can also create vulnerability and lead to young people being sexually exploited. During the coronapandemine, sites like Onlyfans have grown sharply. During an effort in Sweden against sexual exploitation carried out within Empact, the police looked especially for young Swedish women and girls, men and boys who were at risk of being exploited in prostitution via dating sites. The aim was to get in touch with this group of sexually abused individuals and communicate direct contact with the social services. A total of 18 young people were found who had the opportunity to establish such a contact, of which about half maintained the contact. The Left Party believes that immediate action must be taken to make it more difficult to reach a conclusion through so-called'sucking e-mail sites'. The government should commission the Police Authority to specifically look for young people who are at risk of being exploited in prostitution via online dating sites or dating apps through so-called "suckarding". The aim should be to communicate direct contact with the social services in order for the vulnerable to receive help and support to leave prostitution. I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-531	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on violent crime and victims of crime. The committee proposes ten announcements to the government. Here, too, several homework is given on the work of the government in relation to the most vulnerable people in our society, namely victims of violent crime. However, there are also points of light in this report, which Johan Hedin mentioned in his speech. During the weeks when violence in close relationships became the focus – one could have wished that these issues were in focus for a few more weeks, not to say months or years – it was actually the case that the government parties left several reservations in the Justice Committee. We have a united committee on several important points. It is about the need to streamline the criminal investigation work on violence in close relationships, about the need to strengthen knowledge about violence in close relationships, about the need to set up an investigation into the identification of deadly violence in close relationships and about increasing the use of electronic monitoring of contact bans. A united committee, and probably a united parliament, will support this. It's a very important mark. However, this is not enough; it must also be translated into action. There is now a great responsibility for the government to act. These changes are not enough. There are other proposals in this report which unfortunately do not have a united committee behind them. These proposals are not enough; resources are also needed – it costs money to work actively and carry out an effective job. In Question Time just now, I mentioned the article published today in Svenska Dagbladet, where a police officer and a head protection officer at the Stockholm police state that resources for the work against violence against women are being cut. It's an arrest for civilian investigators. They can no longer afford to take in employed pensioners, who have previously been able to go in and help and do a fantastic job based on the experience and skills they have. You can no longer re-employment, and staff at the Police Authority get to work so much that people go into the wall and get sick leave. This is extremely serious, and it requires targeted resources to meet this. The Christian Democrats propose a total of SEK 5.4 billion more to the Swedish Police Authority. We also have a proposal for a targeted effort precisely to reinstate retired police officers. Not least here in Stockholm they have been able to show that they are doing fantastic work and have been able to dust off investigations that have been high and where victims have not received redress because they have not reached the goal. This has been done, but now it is stopped because the resources are lacking. This can be mentioned and is an important priority when we debate violent crimes and victims of crime, Madam President. Another proposal for an announcement that I would like to raise, and of course I am in favour of it, is about making compensation to victims more efficient. The entire judicial system will be permeated by a clear victim perspective with which victims will receive increased attention and redress. This includes a respectful and correct response from the actors who come into contact with a victim and redress by the judiciary doing its utmost to clarify the issue of debt and to impose fair penalties and compensation. As far as we are concerned, it is also about this being done automatically. The damages shall be paid automatically from the State to the victim, and it shall then be the State that collects the money from the offender. It should be the task of the state – not the victim – to collect the money. Today's system means that the victim sometimes needs to contact the person liable for damages himself in order to obtain their compensation. The victim is forced to spend both time and effort on getting his self-evident right – his damages. We believe that this is often a second violation – first one is subjected to the crime, and then many times year after year one has to try to recover the damages that have been awarded. We want to change this, and it is gratifying that a majority in Parliament now supports it. Another announcement contained in the report, which I would like to mention, concerns the criminalisation of failure to report or otherwise expose forced marriage and child marriage crimes. We believe that this is very urgent. In this context, I would like to highlight the Christian Democrats' proposal to introduce a special forced marriage unit in the police, according to the British model, which we set out in reservation 12. With regard to the announcement in the report concerning children's houses, the view of the Christian Democrats is that children's houses should be available throughout the country. Children's houses are an important way of working for children and young people who have been victims of crime. For example, police, prosecutors, social services, child welfare teams, child and youth psychiatrists and crisis supporters work together on children who have been subjected to physical or psychological violence or abuse. Everyone is specially trained to work with children, and the premises are often well adapted. Barnahus operations in Sweden have been evaluated. Many work very well, but there are regional differences. This, we believe, entails the risk that children who have been victims of crime will not receive equal treatment, support and protection, which in the future may cause serious difficulties for the vulnerable child. In the Committee's view, it is important that the shortcomings pointed out in the final report are addressed urgently, and it is positive that the committee proposes that an announcement be made on this. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise some reservations for which we have not received the support of the committee. It is about the work against prostitution and human trafficking. There's a reservation about the police's work. There is another reservation concerning suckling and another reservation that we support, which is about stricter penalties for combating trafficking in human beings. It is clear that more needs to be done in the fight against trafficking in human beings and that people are being exploited in the most disgusting ways. There are a number of proposals in this report that meet with just that, and the Christian Democrats are, of course, behind them. The reservation that I propose is about crimes against the elderly; that is reservation 3. Sweden's elderly are vulnerable, and they are particularly vulnerable to fraud. Often it is about invoice and card fraud. We want the penalties for crimes against the elderly to be tightened up. We also need to gain a deeper understanding of the vulnerability of older people to crime and to strengthen the preparedness and knowledge of older people by means of information measures in order for them to be able to defend themselves against these fraudulent criminals, who are often embezzled by the credulity of older people. Older people also need help and support when they are victims of crime. Targeted support and victim support for the elderly should be available in all parts of our country. In doing so, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3. Of course, I also support our other reservations, but in order to save time at voting time, I do not support them.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-551	Madam President, I would like When you do not manage to ensure that people do not commit crimes, by having an active labour market policy and creating jobs in Sweden and by ensuring that psychiatry and police prevention work works and that substance abuse units can receive people with problems, it is next best to be able to protect and support those who have been victims of crime. We know that a victim of crime can easily become a victim again. In so-called Victorian research, this is not news, but what to do to make as little harmful as possible is a particular area. We must reduce the damage and try to ensure that victims do not become victims again. There are a number of things in this report from the Committee on Justice that are central, and they span a very broad field. It can also be added that no crimes should be committed and that the damage to crime should be minimised. A third factor is that people should get redress by clearing up crimes that have been committed and that the sanction is relevant. It is an important part of support for the victim that the victim is locked up. I will address a few points that are important to us from the Liberals. One is the broad consensus on men's violence against women. I'm afraid that's not a new thing. This afternoon there has been a discussion back and forth about whether it is an imported problem or whether it is due to old cultures. I won't swear, but it doesn't matter. We will ensure that men in Sweden do not commit violence against women. Then there are a number of things that we have come up with and that we from the Liberals are very happy about. However, we think that we could go further with automatic bans and that we should evaluate this with a ban on contact in our own home. We've tightened this up. But we liberals get signals, not least when we are out meeting non-profit organisations such as women's shelters and girls' shelters, that this is still a problem. That is why we have this in our reservations. It is the time for all of us in this House to give a thought and a thank you to those who are working hard in victim victims' shelters and as witness support and, not least, women's and girls' shelters who are doing an enormous job in reducing suffering. When you are unable to stop the influence of someone else, it is a fantastic activity. We have loaded with resources for long-term support. More can be done, and the Liberals will come back to that in the budgetary context. But we are pleased with what has been done so far. The committee held a recent hearing on violence against women. Then we found out that the subsidies have arrived. But it is expected that there may be additional needs when the pandemic is over. For the Liberals, it is important to see a woman who is subjected to violence from a man. But there are also women who are subjected to violence from perhaps fifty different men in the so-called clandom, the so-called honor-related violence and repression. It's a very special situation. During this parliamentary term, we have proposed a number of tightening ups in the case of forced marriages in order to prevent and mark against coercive poisons and to support those who are subjected to it. We are moving forward in a broad field, which is very important, but there is still quite a lot to do. Earlier in the day, Madam President, we have also heard about basic functions that need to be addressed in relation to cousin marriages. It's not just bad from a genetic point of view. It is inappropriate for many reasons, such as power and control reasons. We must put an end to this. It is quite incomprehensible that we have not done so. Then I think Linda Westerlund Snecker had a good point when she raised this with a suction ejaculation and the borderland between relationship and prostitution. Here I would like to beat a blow for the research carried out at Örebro University. The gender equality network here in the Riksdag, where I myself have participated, was invited by Örebro University to talk about this. Here's a gray area that's painful. From being something strangely exciting, it can lead to something that is very oppressive and directly criminal. The research project, which is going on until next year, focuses on the so-called increased instrumentalisation of the intimacy that is taking place in our society, which must not least have moral points of view. However, it is a little difficult to have political views on this. People are allowed to do what they want in a free country, but one must nevertheless argue that there are problems with this. In the same way, it is with normalization of sexuality that a commadification, something that one performs without any major relationship. It's kind of like when we talk about pornography. I see all the misery there, but you have to accept a degree of freedom. Somewhere, however, there is a limit, a knife edge, where you have to say that this goes too far. There's the project on sugar dating very valuable. It will hopefully help us get a clearer view and scrape away all the naivety around it. This was a bit about honour-related violence and oppression, prostitution, vulnerable women and the non-profit organisations. I would also like to highlight the issue of the vulnerability of older people. During the miserable pandemic, we have heard how, not least, older people may have suffered very badly from partner violence. It can be stressed that it can be in both directions, since the physical strength and upper hand of the man can cease in the autumn of age. We Liberals take this up in reservation number 1. For time-winning, Madam President, the Liberals and I are in favour of reservation number 1 but naturally support all our reservations.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-569	Madam President, I would like The men who strike and murder must face the collective strength of society, and the women who fall victim to violence must face the full support of society. Much has been done in this area, but much more needs to be done to meet this enormous social problem. One problem that exists today is that men, as it usually is, who have been sentenced to a restraining order too easily can break it without any further consequences. It's not supposed to be like that. The regulatory framework needs to be tightened up here. Anyone who violates a restraining order will get a anklet. Several issues relating to victim support are also on other committees outside this report, but are nevertheless worth addressing in this context. One such question is the housing situation. All the women who are in a relationship where there is violence, and who cannot leave it because they do not have a housing situation so that they can move forward, is a problem on which we need to focus much more. It is not an easy task to solve in Sweden's housing shortage, but it is incredibly important to do more at both national and municipal level to get to grips with the problem. No one should remain in a relationship if one does not want to, especially when there is violence, because the housing situation cannot be resolved. Madam President, I would like The funding of women's shelters is another extremely central issue. During the open hearing that we had a few weeks ago in committee, several organisations highlighted this. That is something we need to solve. It is not reasonable that the organisations working on these extremely important issues should not be given a reasonable foresight and should be able to plan their activities. The economy must be long-term and forward-looking. That is something that I hope we can agree on in the future across party boundaries. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will say something about people in prostitution, who should be given victim status. Anyone who buys six out of 15 to 18-year-olds should have been guilty of rape of children on a regular basis. With this, I would like to endorse reservations 25 and 27, which have a so-called false majority.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-575	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the government proposal on supplementary rules for residence permits for upper secondary school studies. It is important for us now to take a decision on this matter to put the Government's proposals in the right context, not least in view of the fact that migration issues and residence permit issues are perceived as highly controversial and with great explosive power. It may therefore be useful to try to tone down the high tone of the debate and to think about what we should actually decide on. For more than a year, our entire society has been struggling to stop the spread of infection and the disease-suffering pandemic and to take measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on companies and individuals. During the years 2020 and 2021 this has meant that the Government has put forward proposals that the Riksdag then voted on – proposals that total approximately SEK 400 billion. These proposals include short-term lay-off and reduced social security contributions. Only a few weeks ago we dealt with employers' contributions in terms of research and development, first employment and young people. There are also conversion aid and turnover aid for companies, state health liability for a certain period of time, increased support for sport and culture, rental aid, compensation for the withdrawal, compensation for risk groups, increased a-cash and more training places. I could go on for a while. These are some of all the measures the government has taken to try to alleviate the effects of the pandemic, also with the perspective of how individuals and businesses are affected by unemployment and bankruptcies. We will of course use the strength of the Swedish economy to strengthen welfare with more employees, take a leading role in climate change, make efforts to combat unemployment and ensure that young people get a good start in working life after completing education. The proposal we are now debating and deciding on next week is about compensating for the negative effects of the pandemic on a particular group. What the government proposes is that the group that has been granted a residence permit to undergo training that will lead to work and permanent residence permits should be given a better chance than those that prevail during the pandemic. When the House originally decided on this legislation, different parties had different opinions, but I believe and hope that no one then wished that these young people would fail to get a job and therefore leave the country. This proposal does not change the spirit of the legislation; it is simply a matter of adapting the conditions to the situation. This means, in essence, that the people concerned are given 12 months to get a job instead of the six months laid down in the legislation. It is not a dramatic change, but it can give those concerned a better chance of pursuing what was the idea. Today we are not debating whether the High School Act is good, whether it should or should not have been introduced, or whether it meets or does not meet the right group. What the government's proposals and the debate are about is, as in many other areas, how we can take action to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. In addition to the proposal for an extension of time, there are two further proposals in the proposal to mitigate the effects. This means that half-time study funding can be included and that a career introduction position can also form the basis for a decision on a permanent residence permit. Madam President, I would like I hope that other parties can overlook the fact that we are dealing with legislation that has been and is controversial and see that it is a temporary measure aimed at giving young people an opportunity to take the opportunity offered to them by the legislation on residence permits on the basis of upper secondary education decided by this House. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation number 1 and hence of the government proposal.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-588	Madam President, I would like Since the pandemic hit Sweden, broad political collaborations have been entered into to ensure that people in our society are affected as little as possible. Our social citizenship has had to show perseverance and strength in providing security for those of us who need it, whether it is about getting care in the acute illness, preventing the spread of infection or managing the many economic and structural consequences of the pandemic. Like all crises, the Corona crisis hits those who are already vulnerable hardest, i.e. those with little or no margins. Among these are those who are newly arrived in Sweden and especially the children and young people who have come to Sweden without parents to seek shelter from war and persecution. Madam President, I would like We will perhaps again hear Members of Parliament calling children and young people who have applied for asylum in Sweden without parents for adult men without asylum reasons. The frequent repetition of a lie does not make it true. Unfortunately, though, it gets hold, and we hear it more and more often. I would therefore like to turn to this description very strongly once again. The unaccompanied came to Sweden as a child and sought refuge here from war, persecution and oppression. When migration policy was tightened, the Prime Minister promised that children would be excluded. But that was not the case. That promise was broken. The Migration Board changed its practice, with the result that the 18th anniversary meant expulsion for many in the group. Other children and young people are affected by legal uncertainty. Some were mere guesses of an administrator, and others were so-called medical age assessments using methods that are highly challenged from a scientific point of view. A judgment from the Migration Court of Appeal in 2017 stated that a large proportion of those under 18 were actually to be assessed as an alternative need for protection and get a residence permit, but the long processing times allowed many to turn 18 years before the asylum decision was taken. The circle was therefore closed, Madam President. Through this Kafkanika situation, children have been deprived of their right of asylum. The fact that they are now adults does not make this injustice any less serious. There is a political responsibility in this which weighs heavily and which cannot be escaped by constantly repeating lies about the group that has suffered the injustice. In desperation, some of the young people who have been treated in this way have again been forced to flee – this time further out into Europe to try to get the protection they seek. Behind them they have left desperate foster families, classmates, and teammates. If it were indeed the case that these children and young people did not have asylum grounds, would they not also be denied protection in France, for example, where many have moved on? But no, Madam President, that has not been the case. It is very difficult to find proper figures on this, but I am in contact with a person who is trying to compile an overview of how many of those who have moved on to France who have been granted a residence permit there. So far, my contact has gone through at least 60 confirmed, identified cases, where young unaccompanied persons have left Sweden to seek protection in France. Of these, just over 20% have been granted refugee status and ten-year residence permits. Others have been granted a four-year residence permit on a basis similar to that of alternative protection here. These 60 cases are just the ones you see when you scratch the surface. There are many more. There are, of course, several reasons for the difference in assessment between Sweden and France, the most important of which is that France does not assess the possibility of an IDP within Afghanistan. But how can this not be seen, Madam President, as an enormous failure? That at least 60 young people, who were children when they came to Sweden, did not have their right to asylum satisfied? That they had to escape from Sweden? That, years later, another European country gives them the protection status they should have been granted a long time ago? And in the light of this, how can it be considered that Swedish legislation should be tightened further? Madam President, I would like For all these reasons, the Left Party had preferably seen an overall solution with permanent residence permits for the unaccompanied. It would have been the best, easiest and most realistic both for the children and young people affected by the unreasonable trips I have mentioned and for our whole society. This should also be understood by parties who are constantly talking about shadow society. Unfortunately, it was not as comprehensive a solution as the Left Party had wished. Instead, some young people would be given a new opportunity through the new High School Act. But the law was so poorly constructed that it was obvious that uncertainty and anxiety would persist and that, in addition, there was a great risk of exploitation and vulnerability in the course of the law. The Left Party saw the shortcomings and tried to remedy them. The government wasn't interested, and now we're here with the consequences. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has now hit the unaccompanied ones who have been able to get through the little needle eye of the High School Act again. It is distance learning, internships that do not exist and employers who have had to cut back. After completing upper secondary school studies, you have six months to get a job, a job that will also have a duration of more than two years. Even normally, it is extremely difficult. Safe jobs are unfortunately not everyday for young people in the Swedish labour market. In these times, when the pandemic has struck, it is even more difficult. Other new arrivals are also twice as affected when they no longer meet the supply requirements due to unemployment or short-term work. Madam President, I would like Government and parliament have a responsibility to ensure that new arrivals with temporary permits are not unduly affected by the consequences of the pandemic. It was therefore very good that, at the end of last year, the government presented proposals that one year's employment would be sufficient to meet the requirements. Unfortunately, the proposal was voted ne d, mainly because the Center Party chose not to take responsibility for the legislation that it itself has been involved in implementing. Now the government has proposed that those who have completed their education should receive twelve instead of six months to establish themselves in the labour market and qualify for a permanent residence permit. It is also proposed that study funding for mid-term studies should be taken into account when assessing whether the supply requirement is met and that career introduction employment should also be the basis for permanent residence permits. Madam President, I would like It seems that these important changes do not happen. It is sad and, to be honest, shocking to note that the Center Party is once again failing the young people whom they have previously said they are protecting. The Center Party seems to think that the government's proposals do not include enough people in the group, that some people risk falling outside, that they do not want to continue patching and repairing, and that instead of temporary solutions they want to see a humanitarian basis that could include more. Of course, it is a problem that many have already fallen outside. The Left Party has repeatedly asked the Minister for Migration what the government intends to do to ensure that more new groups are not left out. It needs to be solved. Indeed, the arguments of the Center Party are incomprehensible. We all know that the humanitarian basis proposed continues to be extremely tight. It will also leave large groups of these young people outside. If the Center Party wants as few young people as possible to fall outside, it should support both the proposal relating to adaptation to the consequences of the pandemic and the possibility of a broad humanitarian base. But the Center Party chooses that everyone – everyone! – new arrivals with permits under the Temporary Restrictions Act or the new Upper Secondary Education Act will be exposed to the cruel consequences of the pandemic. You can hardly be more cynical than that. And more wasteful of society's resources, you can hardly be. These young people have invested their time and energy in meeting the requirements and becoming part of Sweden. Sweden has invested in them, their education and life opportunities. With its change of course, even if it is passive, the Center Party joins the gang that apparently has the highest priority to expel young people who are now finished nurses, plumbers and warehouse workers. Madam President, I would like We see an urgent need to remedy some of the shortcomings in the patchwork of laws that hit people hard. The majority behind the new High School Act must take responsibility for providing security so that new arrivals in general and unaccompanied minors in particular do not again get caught. Our community, Madam President, should also be on their side. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-611	Madam President, I would like The world, Europe and Sweden are changing, for better or for worse. When I started primary school in the early 1990s, the Soviet Union still existed. When I started middle school, Sweden was not yet in the EU, or the EC as it was then called. When I started high school, the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center had not happened, and not until I had gone out and moved to Malmö, the EU was enlarged with the old states of Eastern Europe. Some things have undeniably improved. Unfortunately, things have gotten worse elsewhere. All this time we have seen conflicts and wars around the world. In the 1990s, there was a devastating war in the Balkans, and about 150 000 people died. Society was destroyed, and many were forced to flee. Of course, not only in the Balkans, but also in Sweden. We who went to school in Söderhamn saw it, as of course they did in many other places in Sweden. It has continued to be conflicts around, even after finally there was peace in the Balkans, with subsequent flows of refugees. In Syria, it has been going on since the Arab spring was not what we hoped for. There has been bloody war in the 2010s. Iraq, Yemen, Libya and Somalia are other examples, and in Afghanistan the war has been going on for 40 years. Now the international community will leave the country, and few assessors believe that it will bring something positive with it. Rather, most of the evidence suggests that an already bad situation will be even worse. Madam President, I would like During the 2010s, more and more unaccompanied children came to Sweden, and for a few years there were very many. Most of them were in 2015, when some 36,000 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in Sweden. We all know what happened during that time. Europe joined. Turkey's President Erdo中an was paid by the EU to keep the border with the EU closed. The countries of Europe restricted opportunities for those who came in different ways. Sweden was not an exception in this respect. It was on 24 November 2015 that the government announced that Sweden would fall to the EU minimum level in migration policy, which was a huge reversal. Other changes had been made earlier this autumn. It was a cross-block agreement in October that six out of eight parties in the Riksdag supported. But what happened in November was far more far-reaching than that. Madam President, I would like This had many consequences, and the High School Act was one of them. For us in the Green Party it was extremely important that those who had come here as a child this autumn should have the test to which they were entitled and that they should be tested according to the age they had when they came here. As the Migration Agency became extremely burdened – priority was also started to be given to matters concerning Syria – increased processing times. The children had time to turn 18 years of age, thus becoming adults, or were enrolled in their age. This also gave them a more difficult test than they would otherwise have had. The High School Act was not a perfect construction. But from the point of view of the situation, it was the best thing to do. From the Green Party's point of view, we would have preferred to have had a solution where they could have been granted a permanent residence permit. Now it has become another more protracted process. But the High School Act came into place, and the 7 000 covered by it still have the opportunity to stay in Sweden. Madam President, I would like But then the coronapander came over the world. No country anywhere in the world was prepared for it. Of course, there has been much discussion of the Coronandem, and it will continue. However, it is probably not an exaggeration to say that it put most things on the table and has led us to act in a completely different way from what we have done in the past. Many billions have been provided in support of businesses and extra support for municipalities and regions. The rules of the unemployment fund and other systems have been relaxed. Events, large and small, have been cancelled or postponed. There have also been major restrictions on our rights and freedoms, with demonstration bans as an example, to keep the infection away. This has happened in Sweden, and other countries have taken even more draconian measures to prevent the infection. Madam President, I would like Therefore, it was perfectly natural to adjust and ease the requirements of the Upper Secondary Education Act – to increase the time you have to get a job and to reduce the requirement for how long you have to have this job. This is a small change compared to a lot of other measures that have been taken during this pandemic. It was also a change that, when presented, seemed to have a majority in the Riksdag, since the Center Party had requested these exact changes just a few months earlier. But the Center Party suddenly turned around when the proposal came from the government. Now they said no. And what was only a few months ago natural was now to patch and fix, oh, Madam President, they did not want to fix a system that did not work. The Center Party is talking about bringing out the power of every human being. I'm sure you've seen the big posters in the newspapers and on the web. Now's your chance, Center Party! Those who came on their own can get relieved demands with this proposal if you vote for it. Bring out the power of every human being! Madam President, I would like It is now that time of year when we see it as some get irritated but most of us will probably be happy when we see it. There are students in streets and squares who walk around and blow in whistles, easily salooned even though it is not even lunchtime. At best, the sun shines. And even though there are still restrictions, it is a time of joy, pride and celebration when those who finish high school celebrate that they are finished with school and that adult life awaits. Most of us remember with pleasure when we graduated. Maybe it was the most glorious time in life. The future was exciting and uncertain. Perhaps you can also feel a little sad that time passes so fast. There is uncertainty at this time too. Maybe you didn't get into the education you wanted to get into. Maybe you don't know if you get a job. You might want to move, but you don't get a place to live. You may want to stay, but you have friends who move to other places. These are the problems of the vast majority of young adults. But for some students now, uncertainty is much worse. They have to get jobs, otherwise a whole different life and a completely different life await them. Those who are covered by the High School Act and are now taking the student must get a job within six months and have the lasting while the labour market is extremely uncertain, not least in those sectors where young people usually get jobs. Madam President, I would like I'd like to appeal. I know that parties rarely change their mind before the vote in plenary when we have come this far. But weirder things have happened and will happen in this world. I would like to call for approval of the bill and make it easier for young people who want nothing more than to build their lives in Sweden and contribute to our common society. Center Party, it's up to you!
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-630	Madam President, I would like The world's need for help is enormous. You can almost feel hopelessness just in front of the idea. But we can't do that. We must continue to work for a safer world where fewer people need to flee and leave home and family. Of course, those of us who are fortunate and fortunate to live in countries free from war will do what we can to help people who are on the run. And since the world's need is enormous, I think it is our duty to help those who have the greatest need, those who need protection for their lives. People who have come here to stay, who need protection, will also have a real chance and meet with expectations of becoming a part of our society for real. But those who get no, after an examination by the Migration Board and usually also by court, will also leave the country. A no should be a no. In Sweden, this is not working today, and it has not worked for a long time either. A yes is not a yes for real. Children get caught up in parents' exclusion. They do not have sufficient knowledge and are then denied the community that a job brings. Many feel hopeless, and far too many get involved in crime – sometimes with their own and others' lives as a stake. But a no isn't a no either. Only half of those who should leave the country do so voluntarily. Many become part of a growing shadow society – also characterised by hopelessness. It's a gloomy picture I'm painting. But I am convinced that we can actually reverse the trend – that people who have come here will be able to get a much better start, be able to be equipped with knowledge and skills and really be involved in building Sweden strong again. But one condition for us to have a chance at all to reverse developments is that we stand up for regulated immigration worthy of the name and that we have a very low level of immigration for a long time to come. We must now end once and for all the legislative tradition of twitchiness and amnesties. We cannot continue to separate ourselves from the rest of the Nordic countries and Europe. Then people will continue to travel through country by country to search all the way up to Sweden. And then we can never reverse the trend. Madam President, I would like The secondary rule is Swedish immigration policy when it is at its worst. It's unfair, and it's inhumane. These are mainly young adult men who have received a judicial review, often in several instances, where it has been assessed that they have no grounds for protection. The only right thing then, if you believe in regulated and fair immigration, would be for them to leave the country. Instead, a hope was sparked in these thousands of people by giving them a chance to stay if they passed upper secondary school studies and obtained a lasting job. Already when the bill came, there were many of us who warned. Some pointed out the inhumanity that what was meant as a second chance would in fact only be one long and prolonged expulsion. And as you know, the Law Council said that the limit was reached for what Swedish legislation can look like. There is a heavy responsibility on those of you who voted for the High School Act. You are responsible for throwing so many times between hope and despair. It is you who are responsible for society spending its resources on people who do not actually have protection reasons while the need in the world is enormous. Politicians may have the greatest – and most difficult – obligation to give priority. Here the government has repeatedly chosen and prioritised a group of young men without protection reasons over those who really need protection. It is incomprehensible, it is inhumane, it is unfair and it is irresponsible to prioritise the resources of society in this way. That the rules are unreasonable and unsustainable, as so many people have been saying from the outset, the Social Democrats and the Green Party are now trying to correct by continuing to patch and fix. A hope is lighted in some while hope has long been extinguished in many others. The government is now proposing that those covered by the upper secondary rule should have one year instead of six months to enter the labour market. But the job doesn't have to be a real job, it should be enough with career introduction employment. And you don't have to make a living at work either, but some of the livelihoods should be able to come from study funds – i.e. through grants or loans from taxpayers. The Social Democrats have completely surrendered to the irresponsible parties who in practice do not want regulated immigration, thereby joining the irresponsible – all for power. Those of us who still stand up for regulated immigration should perhaps be relieved that this poor and unfair proposal will be voted down in this House. But we cannot, because the Social Democrats have secured up for that event as well. The new migration legislation, which we are going to vote on on 22 June this year, has raised a lot of new holes. One of them is what is called a humanitarian protection base, but which in practice is something quite different. A humanitarian valve is needed for the most distressing cases – I strongly support this – but what the Social Democrats and the government are proposing is a completely new basis for adults without protection reasons to stay here. We have never seen anything like it before in Swedish legislation, and by chance the props are designed to meet precisely those who are covered by the secondary school law but who will not meet the requirements. If there are special reasons and a connection to Sweden, for example through studies, you should be able to stay even if you do not have protection reasons. The fact that there is a valid expulsion, as some of the high school students do, should not be an obstacle either. It's so terribly irresponsible. The research is touchingly agreed that special solutions like the High School Act send clear signals that it is precisely to Sweden people will come, because sooner or later a new opportunity to stay will open up. It also sends clear signals that you should not return after rejection, because sooner or later a new opportunity to stay opens up. And as the Riksdag now assumes its responsibility to stop such signals, the Government chooses to send out additional new ones through the new Migration Act. So I cannot be relieved that this House is doing the right thing and voting against these ill-considered proposals. The Social Democrats are eroding regulated immigration. It shows that one has decided to close one's eyes and close one's eyes to all the problems that unsustainable immigration has brought – all children and young people who do not come to their right, overcrowding, dependency on benefits, crime and hopelessness. There must be an end to the patching and repairing. Sweden needs a new, long-term policy for lower immigration – in order to reverse the integration crisis. Then we cannot continue to give priority to people without reasons of protection, however worthy it may appear. I support the proposal in the report and therefore reject the government proposal.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-652	Madam President, I would like I have long fostered a dream that there will be a time when we will think about politics instead of feeling it – impact assessments instead of hand-hearts, responsibility towards Swedish taxpayers instead of tax-funded, vain virtue signalling, pragmatism and logic instead of expensive utopias. Madam President, I would like The proposals in this bill mean more loopholes, more reliefs and more special solutions for a group of foreign adult men without protection reasons that long ago would have left Sweden. It's grown-ups, grown-up men according to every possible definition. Instead, they were lured to stay and waste more years of their lives, and those who do not now meet these low demands will, of course, still be expelled. Despite all the attempts to round up regulated immigration, we have ended up here – despite the heart of the hand and despite utopia. The entire High School Act is a long, drawn-out, tragic farce, Madam President. The parties that have supported this should be ashamed not only of Swedish taxpayers but also of those who have made promises that have not been covered for – those who are now going to fly home to their own countries. This is what you get when you feel politics instead of thinking it out. This is the result when impact assessments and logic have been ironed out, Madam President. Or as American economist Thomas Sowell has put it: The problem is not that Johnny can't read. The problem isn't even Johnny can't think. The problem is that Johnny doesn't know what thinking is; he confuses it with feeling. When the Swedish Democrats say no to today's proposal, we keep the promises we have made to our voters and to the Swedish people. In the face of Swedish taxpayers, we take responsibility for settling things that others cannot handle in migration policy. I therefore support the committee's proposal to reject the proposal as a whole. No, no more amnesties. No, no more exceptions. No, no more special solutions. No, no more loopholes. No, no more special regulations. No, no more high school teams. A no should be a no.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-658	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. After the refugee crisis, the Center Party took responsibility for giving many young people a second chance after they got caught up in the restrictive, temporary law passed by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The Centre Party then had two options: to support the government's proposal or to condemn it, which would have meant that young people did not get a second chance. The Center Party passed the High School Act to give young people hope, security and the opportunity to build a bright future in Sweden. I'm genuinely proud of that. Even then, the Center Party criticised the government's drafting of legislation. The criticism we made has proved justified, and the consequences we feared have now, unfortunately, become a reality. Many young people who have struggled and worked hard have ended up in extremely difficult situations because the government presented a very poorly designed legislation. The Center Party stands up for a migration policy based on humanity and humanism combined with order. In 2020, we participated in and negotiated in the Migration Policy Committee to reach a broad agreement on a long-term sustainable migration policy. Unfortunately, there was no broad agreement. It is bad for Sweden and for people who have sought security in our country or will do so in the future. The Center Party has always been clear that Sweden needs a long-term sustainable migration policy – not further patching and repairing, but permanent migration legislation. That's what we said when we passed the High School Act. Moreover, the new changes proposed by the government will be far too late and risk being directly unfair, as the young people who have completed the fastest training and learning language would not be included. The Center Party raised the issue of the High School Act over a year ago, during the pandemic, in the Parliamentary Committee. The interest of not least the Social Democrats in discussing the issue was then, to say the least, weak. Madam President, I would like I have been thinking a lot about whether to say this, but I think it will be a bit remarkable when Rikard Larsson of the Social Democrats stands in the speaker's chair and says that this is a corona measure. This therefore enters the pandemic over a year. There are already young people who have suffered the pandemic and have been rejected. This is not a corona measure from the Social Democrats. That is one way of getting the Green Party into the new migration policy that we are going to decide on in June. Let us tell the truth about it! The Government's proposal, which comes over a year into the pandemic, would in practice mean that the young people who have learned the language most quickly, completed their studies and entered the labour market and whose permit expired in December have already received expulsion decisions when the legislation is in place, which only takes place this summer. Young people who have taken longer would be given considerably better opportunities to stay. The Government's proposal therefore means that those who have been the fastest would have the worst chance of staying. It's just not fair. The Center Party has long pointed out that the patching and repairing of migration policy must end once and for all. We need permanent migration legislation. It is best for Sweden, for people who have sought security and confidence in the future in our country and for people who will. This does not mean that the Center Party does not want to improve for young people who have had a residence permit under the Upper Secondary Education Act – quite the contrary. Instead, we want to see a solution for young people who are part of permanent migration legislation. That is why we have instead pushed for a broad humanitarian base that gives some people with a strong connection to Sweden the opportunity to stay. We have pushed for those young people who have taken the chance, studied hard, fought, toiled, lived law-abiding and learned the language and who thus also have a strong connection to Sweden to have an opportunity to be tested against the new humanitarian basis. We shall have an individual and legally certain assessment based on the individual's needs, not temporary legislative changes that neither look after the individual nor last over time. We note that the Government's proposal for a humanitarian basis is in line with what the Center Party has pushed for. These kids are gonna get a second chance. Instead of patching and repairing, however, we will then have it as part of the permanent migration legislation. The Center Party is voting against the changes in the High School Act because they risk being directly unjust. They would mean further patching and repairing in Swedish migration policy. Instead, we support the new humanitarian basis, which I genuinely believe is a better proposal and which is part of permanent migration legislation. The young people who have taken the chance, studied hard, lived law-abiding and learned the language and who have a strong connection to Sweden will thus have a new opportunity to stay.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-669	Madam President, I would like I saw the other day a post on Facebook from the Center Party with a picture of Annie Lööf and the text That sounds very fancy to me. But what does that mean? What does that mean in relation to the young unaccompanied ones who have succeeded in mating for reversal and betrayal after betrayal and who have managed to find the power in themselves? A friend of mine who has struggled very hard with the studies and soon is finished in construction wrote to me yesterday: I have done everything. I've been studying. I've been working extra for the elderly. I'm going to work there even this summer, but it's only hours. I need more time. Why should I be punished? I feel like I've thrown my life away, even though I've done everything I can. I wonder: In what way, Jonny Cato, is it helping this guy find the power in himself not to even treat him and many others a perfectly reasonable extension of the time to find a job? It's a perfectly reasonable thing when we've done a lot and spent billions. That does not mean that we have thrown all other policies aside, but we are doing both. In what way, I wonder, is this helping someone find the power in themselves?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-672	Madam President, I would like I share Christina Raise Larsen's vision – many of these young people have struggled, done well and done everything they can to stay. I do not share the image that other parties have of this group and that they present in many other contexts. That's where we're in complete agreement. The vast majority have fought very hard. These consequences and problems are something that the Center Party highlighted five years ago. We saw that this was a poorly designed piece of legislation. This cannot and should not be the responsibility of the Center Party. The Green Party and the Social Democrats will take responsibility for that. The Center Party saw other better ways. But we have also been clear that there must be a serious end to patching and repairing migration policy. I think we can all agree, no matter what migration policy we want in the future, that the temporary laws have not been good either for us as a country or for people seeking security here. When the Center Party announced how we were going to stand in this vote and the same week presented our humanitarian basis, the government had not yet presented its humanitarian basis. If the Center Party had not put pressure on the government, I am quite convinced that we would have seen a much tighter humanitarian basis than the one we will hopefully be able to vote for in two or three weeks' time. If you have to choose, I think it is better for many young people and for many more than the legislation we have to adopt today.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-676	Madam President, I would like The thing is, you don't have to choose. Things can be done to try to ensure that people do not suffer the terrible consequences of the pandemic and have stable legislation, which I too want. What I hear Jonny Cato say is that pandemic regulation would be too unfair. With it, a small group of the most skilled would not be included. Instead, he proposes a humanitarian basis which will definitely be unfair and which will definitely put a great many people at a disadvantage. I've spoken to a lot of very knowledgeable asylum lawyers. No one can say that this group will be included. That's not what the Minister of Migration says. It's quite obvious. What Jonny Cato says today is that he is prepared to make an even smaller, even narrower, selection. It is, Madam President, to betray this group. It is not antigen or, rather, it is perfectly possible to do the best you can in both cases. That possibility has the Center Party. I think you should take it. I note that the slogan of the Center Party echoes very empty when it meets the reality in which young people find themselves. It won't help them at all if you think it's a good principle. It will mean something very difficult for their future. I hope the Center Party reconsiders.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-681	Madam President, I would like It is as often in migration policy that it is the Center Party that becomes the punching bag for those who are even more right-wing and left-wing. I note that the Center Party – along with the Left Party, I will be honest with you – was one of the very few parties that, during our many and long meetings in the Parliamentary Committee, also highlighted this group. We didn't even say what solution we should have. We said we need to discuss the issue. We were rejected not least by the Social Democrats who did not even want to discuss it. I remember this meeting in particular. I was sitting at my kitchen table. The pandemic was on, and it was one of the first digital meetings I had. I was called off with a big no and that we should not even discuss the issue. I don't think putting all the blame on the Center Party is gonna be fair. The Center Party stands up for what we have said for a long time. We're not going to have any patching and repairing. We shall have a permanent migration policy. We are also finding a solution forward with a new broader humanitarian basis.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-684	Madam President, I would like Last April was what Jonny Cato said in his speech. The Center Party demanded that the rules of the High School Act be changed and relaxed due to the pandemic. A few months later, when the government presented such a proposal, the Center Party reversed. It also supported last autumn a committee initiative by the Moderates on the second part of the change in terms of shortening the time period from two years to one year. Madam President, I would like I really have a very simple question for Jonny Cato. What does Jonny Cato want to say to those who take the student this week and are covered by the High School Act and who would like to see these relieved rules but who do not get it because of the Center Party's decision?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-687	Madam President, I would like If we are to start with the vote held at the end of last year, it is probably important that we keep the facts right in the debate. The Center Party did not support the Moderate Committee initiatives, but the Center Party believes, as on all other issues, that it is the government that is responsible for that part of the policy. We therefore abstained from taking part in the decision. It was quite a long time ago that this terrible pandemic began. We are now at a completely different stage. We are 19 days away from the Parliament's decision on a new permanent migration law. Then it is more reasonable to find solutions for all those who have been affected by temporary laws that you in the Green Party have been involved in introducing. I think it is a better solution that, once and for all, we should not make notes and laws without becoming part of permanent migration legislation. I understand that there is a great need from the Green Party to paint out the Center Party here like we have turned and no longer stand up for humanity, humanity and helping people escape. Rasmus knows that both me and the Center Party still do. What may divide us is that we seriously believe that patching and repairing do not make it better for people on the run. We need permanent migration legislation that can last over time.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-691	Madam President, I would like I'll start by correcting Jonny Cato. It was two out of five members who voted in favour of the Moderate Committee initiatives and three out of five members who abstained. I said it wrong, but just so it's clear. Madam President, I would like As far as the long-term sustainability of migration policy is concerned, I definitely see a value of it. It would be very good to get it done. In the Migration Committee we were eight parties that agreed on that particular premise. But it's not superior to everything else. Having a long-term perspective is what you want for your own policy. I want a long-term migration policy that is green. It is not the same as Maria Malmer Stenergard wants for her moderate line and vice versa. For two parties in the Committee, it was more important and superior that it should be a long-term, the Liberals and the Center Party, and that it was above much else. Other parties felt, as I understood in the committee work, that the most important thing was that their own policy should apply rather than that it was long-term. Madam President, I would like I appreciate much of what the Center Party has done. I am pleased that the broader humanitarian protection base is being supported. But now the question is different. On our part, there is no need whatsoever to mark anything. It is about the matter and the consequences it has in reality. We're not gonna patch and cook. It is the answer that the Center Party gives to those who are covered by the High School Act and take the student now and who could get simpler and easier rules but who do not get it. I'm not satisfied with that answer. I am absolutely sure that those who are covered are not. I think we should look at this pragmatically in this situation. The conditions have changed in a way that no one could have foreseen. It is very reasonable to adjust the rules. I hope that the Centre Party will take it on board when there are votes on Wednesday.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-698	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member knows, it sometimes happens in this House that there are misprints. It was such an opportunity. The honourable Member is also well aware of this through the talks we have had. If this was so very important, and it is now so important to the Green Party, why did the government not put forward the proposals earlier, so that it would not have been unfair to all those who were the fastest through the studies? This applies to those who, for example, graduated last summer. Why did you not make the proposals earlier, so that they did not become directly unjust? I do not think that the Green Party should put words in the mouth of parties that were involved in negotiations during the migration talks. The reason we did not come up with a broad solution was precisely because all parties stood up for their own policies and opinions. Otherwise, we would probably have reached a broad agreement.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-701	Madam President, I would like Most of the Centre Party's flip-flops in migration policy are aware of, with constant disorder and disorder. Or flip-floping in the rhetoric, perhaps one should say. In fact, it is consistently a question of wide-open borders, a total lack of control and of tirelessly increasing immigration to Sweden at all costs. This is also the case here, Madam President, although one can be led to believe something else from the Left and the Green Party lines. The Center here says no to the sneak amnesty proposed by the government. It may sound like order on the surface. But the fact is that in a few weeks' time, just as Mr Cato has mentioned, the Center will most likely vote for a new motorway-like amnesty with the extremely generous humanitarian protection basis proposed by the government. Jonny Cato himself has confirmed this a long time before, in a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet in December 2020: a new humanitarian basis in migration legislation should be formulated so that it can also include unaccompanied minors who do not meet the requirements for permanent residence permits under the Upper Secondary Education Act. The Center Party said: Order and order! Could Mr Cato perhaps comment on what types of sneakamnesties the Center considers best to avoid expelling persons without protection, with unclear identity, who have had their case tried in accordance with all the usual laws and rules and would have left the country already many years ago? Who thinks the Center should ever be expelled from Sweden according to the regulated migration that we have?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-705	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by noting that, in the follow-up motions put forward by the parties in view of the government's future migration policy, the Centre Party is the only party with a broad proposal on return. The Center Party believes that these young people have fought and worked hard, and many have done well. We also think it is reasonable to have a second chance to stay, because, as I said earlier, it is a poorly designed legislation by the Green Party and the Social Democrats. But we have been saying for many years – and there is no flip-floping, on the contrary – that there must now be an end to the patching and repairing and that we need permanent migration legislation. The honourable Member stands here and says that this is a sneakamnesty and so on. It's not. The honourable Member also said in his speech that these are low demands. It's not. Then you have pretty bad knowledge of what the Swedish labour market looks like and how difficult it is to get the first job, no matter who you are, where you come from and what your name is. So I do not share the view that these are low demands, nor that this is a sneak amnesty. There were many hopes that the Center Party is doing a lot of rhetoric but that it is a different matter in practice. But at least the Swedish Democrats are clear through: It should be no to everything and everyone.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-710	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats think that we should comply with the laws and regulations that exist, and of course we want regulated immigration, unlike what the Center Party stands for with its patching and repairing and the mess and disorder that is apparently standing up for here. I absolutely believe that many of these young people have struggled and worked hard. But fighting and tearing is not a reason for asylum. Getting a second chance – this is not a second chance. It's a third, fourth or fifth chance for many. And when it comes to the labour market, it is clear that it is difficult in the Swedish labour market. This applies to everyone today, including Swedish citizens. Why should we finance an evasive effect? We have already seen in several municipalities that they have made up fake jobs to hire people so that they can stay here – to round Swedish migration legislation. Expulsion when you have no grounds for protection is not a punishment. It is a logical consequence of regulated immigration. All this patching and repairing overrides the whole idea of regulated migration. In addition, it undermines the right of asylum if people who have applied for asylum in Sweden and do not have grounds for protection are allowed to stay anyway. It is a erosion of the right of asylum, which the Center stands for. I don't understand how you can stand and discuss it at all. Furthermore, no one forced anyone to apply under the Upper Secondary Education Act. It was totally voluntary. You could have chosen to go home then instead, but you listened to the promises made by the Center Party and others. And now here we are.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-717	Madam President, I would like The Center Party is clear that a refusal should be a refusal. The Swedish Democrats often want to convey the picture that the Center Party is not in favour of regulated immigration. The Center Party is responsible for regulated immigration. However, the fact that you are responsible for regulated immigration does not mean that you have the same policy. The fact that you stand for regulated immigration does not mean that it should be 'no' to everything and everyone, but it can mean different things, as it does for the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats. Nor should it be forgotten that 2015 was an extraordinary year. Young people got caught up in the difficult situation facing Sweden, not least the Migration Agency, and people on the run. The fact that a special regulation was then made for a group that ended up in a very difficult situation does not mean that a rejection should not be a rejection for others who will come forward. I am proud that the Center Party stood up for the young people who were in trouble because of the legislation that, among other things, the Green Party and the Social Democrats voted for, and also the Swedish Democrats.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-720	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by quoting from the follow-up motion by the Center Party on this proposal. They write like this: 中 D et is undoubtedly so that the young people who have been granted a residence permit on the basis of the Upper Secondary Education Act, have a strong connection to Sweden, have passed their studies and are close to the labour market, have been severely affected by the pandemic. However, the Center Party believes that a humanitarian basis that gives people with strong ties to Sweden the opportunity to obtain a residence permit for particularly distressing reasons is a better way forward... We want unaccompanied minors with strong ties to Sweden to be able to be tested against the humanitarian basis. ..................................................... I think this is crystal clear. After all, the humanitarian basis is also given to the Center Party in the new migration legislation. That is why I do not really understand why the Green Party and the Left Party are here today and are very critical. Honestly, it just feels like an act. Or maybe it's a way of trying to attract center pickers. What do I know? But I can reassure all these center voters who want the high school youth in practice to get an amnesty. The Center Party will vote in favour of an open hole in the new migration legislation, namely the so-called humanitarian basis, which is in fact something quite different from a valve. It is a completely new opportunity for adults without protection reasons to stay. I therefore wonder: how can the Centre Party stand here and say, in its post-intervention speeches, that it wants an end to the patching and repairing? Should I interpret it as meaning that what you really want to do is to open a hole so big that it can no longer be fixed?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-725	Madam President, I would like This is somewhat paradoxical replicating. First you get criticism from one side and then from the other. Then one might note that the Center Party stands quite a lot in the middle of Swedish politics. The Center Party has long said that temporary laws and patching and repairing must be over. That is also why we are voting against this type of proposal and have done so for many years. What we are now getting is permanent migration legislation. Given that Sweden is in a completely different situation today than in 2015, it is reasonable to design it according to what it looks like today. I do not think this is patching and fixing the legislation. What we are getting in place now is a new, largely balanced and good migration legislation. We will debate it more in just a few weeks. The Center Party lacks certain elements and would like to change certain parts. We are not entirely satisfied, but it is largely a good proposal. Above all, there is the end of the patching and repairing, and there will be a new, permanent migration legislation, which I hope will last for many years to come.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-729	Madam President, I would like The problem with both the High School Act and the new humanitarian basis is that it chooses to give priority to society's resources to people who have been judged to be unprotected. I believe that it simplifies the concept of humanism when you think that what is humane is just to allow as many people as possible to come here and stay – when we see that we are not able to deal with it, when far too many of those we have let go of within our physical borders do not have a real chance of getting into society for real, but get stuck in an alienation that, moreover, is inherited, when people ultimately just feel hopeless. We must take full responsibility for giving those who come here an opportunity to enter society as well. Therefore, I would like to ask: if the world's needs are enormous – there is talk of 70 or 80 million people who are on the run – and one is of the opinion that we in Sweden should really do our part, should we not give priority to those who are deemed to have protection reasons rather than to put society's resources on those who have actually received a legal review in court where it has been shown that they lack protection?
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-731	Madam President, I would like A party that wants to reduce the number of quota refugees should probably not be allowed to define the concept of humanitarian. To stand and say that we should help those who are most vulnerable when it was said just a few months ago that we should reduce the number of quota refugees to Sweden, I think is a little against the arguments that Maria Malmer Stenergard has just made herself.
i-TzwuzjHG68VCTk65SSwdVs	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal to reject the proposed proposal. So it is on the day of six months since we last discussed in this House these mainly young men who have no reasons for protection but who have had the chance to study in high school. Time and time again we come back to this group. We Christian Democrats voted against the possibility of some 9 000 unaccompanied minors being granted a residence permit on this basis. The reason was, and the reason is, that we believe that it is the need for protection – not long processing times, upper secondary school studies, covid-19 or the labour market – that will form the basis for decisions and for the design of migration policy. It is the reasons for protection that are to be tested, and here today we are talking about a group that has no grounds for protection. They have had their case examined by both the migration services and, in the vast majority of cases, also the courts. Madam President, I would like This is where I could end up. In a rule of law that wants to see regulated immigration with legally secure decisions, I think that those arguments are quite sufficient. However, I will also say a few words about how the management of this law has created false hopes and uncertainty about how Swedish migration legislation works and will work. The false hope comes as a letter in the post office when one does not care about trying to avoid what is called goal conflicts, in this case a hope that a no will eventually be a yes. The question that bores an answer is how creating such a situation can have to do with humanism. For it is often so the expedients of this ill-thought-out law want to portray themselves. What humanism is it that allows the person who applied for asylum before midnight on 24 November 2015 to benefit from these special rules but not the person who applied for asylum for exactly the same protection reasons some hour after midnight on 24 November 2015? In fact, the High School Act is a single long, prolonged expulsion. It was already pointed out when this law came out in haste. According to the latest figures I have obtained – I reserve that there may be even more fresh figures – 127 of the 7,600 who have been allowed to stay for upper secondary school studies have been granted permanent residence permits. Madam President, I would like The security of how we in Sweden choose to design a long-term and legally secure migration policy was partly crumbled apart by this special law. This is a law that is best described as an exception. Now the government wants to make an exception to the exception, to put it a little more intelligible. The aim is simply that those who have studied with the support of the Upper Secondary Education Act should be allowed to stay. It feels like the asylum activists' cry for amnesty, which has been heard since 2017, inspired this proposal from the government. I fully understand the empathy that has arisen for these young adults. I believe that it is perfectly natural and fundamentally testifies to the good of a person's nature. I myself am one of those who have become very strongly involved on a personal level. As a priest and parishioner, I have had numerous meetings and discussions with young men who have come here to Sweden and who have witnessed the journey they have made, many times a dangerous journey, and the problems they have encountered when they come to our country. Having said that, however, I have to say that dealing with this situation is nothing more than a disgrace to the rule of law such as Sweden. Madam President, I would like This law has been a wakeong of uncertainty – uncertainty about, for example, which educations are valid for this law, as well as uncertainty about what is meant by active participation, i.e. that you are in high school and take part of the teaching that was the prerequisite for getting this opportunity. These uncertainties were not eliminated when the new High School Act came into being. Long after the high school law was clubbed and completed, we had discussions about what is meant by active participation and what training is valid and not. As is well known, the Legislative Council noted that the limit here has been reached for what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted. Yes, the question is how far across the border you have trodden when it comes to the actual implementation of this law. Here the asylum system has somehow been set up and down when it comes to a few thousand people. These have certainly had no simple lives, but they do not have protection reasons. I know that it may be controversial to discuss costs and that it partly concerns different parts of our budget, but the cost to these young adults, who have been given this opportunity under the High School Act, is to date several billion. At the same time, the government has reduced the aid budget in order to be able to help here at home in Sweden. At the same time, we know that there are women, children and disabled people in camps with terrible conditions. There are quite a few school years for women and quite a few meals in refugee camps for which this money could have been spent. Comparing refugees does not make it easy, I understand that too. But here we compare refugees and migrants. Economics, however, is a matter of prioritising, and ruling a country is definitely also a matter of prioritising. It is clear that the government and the cooperation parties that have made this law possible have made this priority: that young adults who have long lived in other safe countries, who lack protection reasons and who have often actually lied about their age should be here in Sweden, while we have actually withdrawn support for the most needy. In my book, it's not humanitarian. Madam President, I would like Humanism must never be reduced to using fine words. Nor is humanism to deliver ill-considered, albeit good-hearted, legislation and proposals. We need to get to a final stop for this. I am the first to regret the fact that many people have been subject to this substandard policy and, moreover, have repeatedly been given false hopes. What the debate today is about is whether or not we should make an exception to the derogation. My message and that of the Christian Democrats is that the last thing that is needed now are further signals to the world's migrants that Swedish demands are negotiable if you get here to Sweden. That is why I am calling for the government proposal to be rejected.
i-6daa2d9fcf6ab230-748	Madam President, I would like This issue has been a sequel for many years now. This is about a large group that consists of almost only young men who have been refused their asylum applications, often even in court, but who have been able to stay in Sweden in any case to study in high school. On the Liberal side, we have voted against the High School Act and to various reliefs that have been made accordingly. The reason for that is very simple for us. We do not believe, for example, that studies at upper secondary school's language introduction should be grounds for asylum, but the starting point for us in the Liberals is that it is the protection needs that determine whether or not to stay in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is also a matter of principle, I think, that a person who needs protection in Sweden – sufficient protection needs according to our authorities, our Aliens Act and our courts – may stay in Sweden. If you have a need for protection, you can stay in Sweden. If you get a job in Sweden with a reasonable salary and with decent conditions you get a work permit in Sweden. But if you do not have protection needs according to our authorities, our courts and our legislation and you do not have a job, the question is whether it is reasonable for 10 million people in Sweden to make the commitment to support people who do not have protection needs and do not work for long periods. I do not think that this commitment can be placed on the people of Sweden, but the reasonable thing is that we stick to the right of asylum and let the need for protection be what should prevail. In addition, it is problematic with the High School Act and the whole issue of the large group of unaccompanied young men who came during the refugee crisis and the years before and the years after they have abandoned the principle of focusing on those who need protection in order to focus instead on those who are rejected. This crowds out the possibility of helping those people in Sweden who actually have protection needs and who therefore receive less support and help to channel resources and commitment to people who have been rejected. It is a somewhat strange and odd order, I think, that in a country you give so little focus to people who have the right to reside in the country and give so much focus to people who really do not have the right to do so. A number of exceptions have been made very specifically for this particular group. First, an exception was made with regard to the grounds of protection, and it was said that you do not need protection but can stay anyway to, for example, study in high school. In addition, an exception was made for this particular group in relation to identity requirements. All other people seeking asylum have to make their identity likely or preferably prove it, but for this particular group it has been explicitly written into the legislation that Sweden completely waives the right to know who the person covered by this legislation is. We have surrendered, retreated and said that everyone covered by the new High School Act does not in any way have to show who they are or, for example, indicate the right age. First, then, this group makes an exception as regards the basis of protection. In addition, this is being done with regard to identity requirements. Then you make additional exceptions in terms of school results, what to learn in school, what to study activity, and so on. And now, Madam President, we want to make one more exception. Now they say that those who are covered should not have to work – at least not for a contractual salary on so to speak a real job, but it should be enough with a smaller income and then a career introduction employment or that the income is built on with different types of grants or loans. On our part in the Liberals, we think this is not reasonable. We must have a long-term sustainable migration policy where we do not just make a variety of exceptions for certain specific groups. In addition, Madam President, it is strange that a temporary pandemic is being used as a kind of trampoline to give permanent residence permits. It is not the case that the current pandemic is changing people's protection status or needs. It is therefore a strange order that this pandemic is used as a tool for issuing permanent residence permits which, according to our authorities, our case law and our legislation, we have no way of giving to these people from the outset. That is why, Madam President, I support the proposal in the committee's report and reject the reservation.
