i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-8	Madam President, I would like The flight is needed to keep an elongated country like Sweden together and to secure connections to the world. Travelling enriches us, brings people closer together and in some cases is the only reasonable means of transport for longer distances. At the same time, we know that emissions must be reduced. We simply have to fly green in the future. Here the Moderates are both hopeful and confident that this can be solved. And I am pleased to say that technological development is progressing very quickly. Hydrogen, biofuels and electric aircraft are some successes that are now being tested for real. And several parts are reality already now. Swedish Heart Aerospace is one of many companies targeting electric passenger aircraft. The company has written letters of intent regarding the delivery of a total of 300 aircraft with Finnair, Good, SAS and airlines in a number of other countries. In parallel, we see how big giants like Airbus are also undergoing a major shift towards a green flight. Biofuels, along with electricity and hydrogen, have great potential to reset aviation. Demands for the involvement of biofuels in aviation are an instrument that the Moderates have long wanted to put in place, and we have been exercising about it for years. The government took a long time to set up an investigation, and once it arrived two years ago, it again took a long time to produce a proposal. To say the least, the government has pulled its legs. But at last we have a proposal on the table, and I welcome that. The bill is long awaited at a time when the government spends a lot of time and effort on making it more difficult for the flight than changing it, and then it is good that there is a proposal on the table for a green flight. To mention just one thing, the government and not least the Green Party are using a global pandemic as an excuse to shut down Swedish domestic aviation. The Green Party wants to shut down Bromma without expanding Arlanda when we know that the capacity at Arlanda is not enough. It's deeply serious. In the government there are two ministers who speak against each other on the issue of Arlanda's development. Uncertainty aggravates for an already heavily affected industry and scares away the necessary investments that would be needed to reset the flight. The Moderates want to develop and change. In our budget for 2021, we contributed 100 million to support regional airports to survive the ongoing Corona crisis. We also want the government to take the initiative for a new Arlanda hearing to make the airport the leading in the Nordic region. The previous Arlanda hearing didn't happen much. But above all, we are investing in changing the flight. We have long exercised about both reduction obligations and differentiated take-off and landing fees. Demands for the involvement of biofuels, which we are discussing, are an important part of the transition, but this also requires the inclusion of biofuels. The government is not delivering here today. The Moderates have in our budget a green fuel support for research, development and a demonstration plant, other support to get domestic production of sustainable biofuels from forestry and agriculture going, as well as a hydrogen and electric aircraft investment. We simply need to meet the demands of interference in getting production going as well. The Moderates are demanding three things now that the reduction obligation is introduced, and we have three reservations. The first reservation is precisely to ensure an increase in the production of biofuels. The second reservation is to clarify the purpose of the future inspection posts. After all, control stations for appropriate levels of the reduction obligation are to be implemented forward, and they must include an analysis of the availability of biofuels. The crucial factor in reducing aviation climate emissions by means of the reduction obligation is precisely the availability. An overly high level of reduction in a situation where the supply of biofuels is limited risks driving the price of aviation fuel to a point where airlines actually benefit from paying the reduction fee and taking their penalty. This would be counterproductive in reducing aviation emissions. The Moderates therefore argue that control stations carried out should include studying the supply of biofuels, taking into account future adjustments to the reduction levels, and proposing measures aimed at enabling access at such a level as the reduction levels require. Control stations should also be implemented in a way that allows fuel suppliers and airlines sufficient time to adapt to any adjusted levels ahead. The third reservation is that it must be ensured that airlines can credit for emission reductions from biofuels incorporated under the EU emissions trading scheme. Otherwise, there is a risk that airlines may find themselves in a situation where, in the absence of regulation, they may be forced to report biofuels as fossil fuels in the EU ETS. As a result, much of the incentives for conversion disappear and are not fair to those airlines that actually make a change. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a government that believes that aviation binds our country together and sees the value of travel in the world. Without aviation, Sweden becomes an isolated country on the outskirts of northern Europe. Sweden needs a government that invests its energy in changing flights precisely because it sees a future for aviation, which can switch flights to more biofuels, hydrogen and electricity. The decision today is part of changing the flight, but it is quite inadequate if we do not get the green fuels out. We're gonna fly in the future, and we're gonna make it green. This requires a government that believes in aviation and intends to work towards a change. This requires a new government. I support all reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-27	Madam President, I would like We are debating today another issue of reduction obligations. This time it's about the flight. In a few weeks' time, there will be a new debate on the obligation to reduce road traffic. The Swedish democrats have criticised the systems, not because we are opposed to a reduction obligation on principle or because we are critical of the use of biofuels as part of the fuel mix, but because we think we need to problematise the issue. It is not straightforward, and the market situation is not easy to predict. Nor do we have full knowledge of the environmental impact of all raw materials when a new market for fuel production is opened or how different raw materials are controlled in the market. If a raw material is used for a certain purpose today and a new market is opened, there may be a movement of raw materials, which in total has a very bad effect on the environment and climate. This must be taken into account when considering these issues. Madam President, I would like Aviation is a fundamental part of Swedish infrastructure. As an elongated and sparsely populated country where distances are long between north and south, we need a viable flight. We will never produce a fine meshed network of fast and cost-effective rail connections covering the needs of the whole country. In the longer term, it is of great importance that aircraft can be powered by other fuels such as electricity and hydrogen, but there we will not be on a large scale in the coming decades. Pending this, a system of reduction obligations is now being introduced for the aviation sector. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of alternative aviation fuels and some involvement of biofuels, but we have some reservations. Madam President, I would like There are many uncertainties. We do not know much about the supply and demand of the market. This makes it difficult to set a level within the reduction obligation, which is why we think it is the wrong time to set up a long stairway for the reduction obligation in the coming years. The risks are partly about the sustainability of the fuel and partly about what the price will be. We know very little about it today. Once politicians have decided on something like this, there is a great risk that they will stick to it even if the consequences are negative. That is why we should take a more cautious approach. It is doubtful whether such a comprehensive reduction obligation, as it will be in the long term, will really help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally when all indirect effects are taken into account. I read a report from the ICCT the other day. They're the ones who discovered the diesel. In the report, they conclude that the EU should perhaps be able to reach up to 2% of the inclusion of sustainable biofuels by 2030. They therefore believe that 2% is a realistic level. The government has a completely different view of this, as can be seen. Madam President, I would like We believe that the reduction requirement for percentage incorporation in kerosene should be regulated in line with the availability of sustainable and cost-effective alternative fuels, from primarily Swedish sources, but that the government should with advantage design incentives for industry and landowners to increase the production of such fuels. However, these incentives should not consist of pure subsidies that affect taxpayers in the long term. If the reduction obligation for kerosene is to be increased in Sweden, it is important that it takes place at a rate that is practical and economically realistic, but also that it does not have unacceptable cost driving effects for either airlines or passengers. Having said that, I would like to support the Social Democrats' reservation 2.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-36	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal proposes a reduction obligation that reduces emissions from the use of kerosene. The reduction obligation obliges aviation kerosene suppliers to include biofuels in the fossil kerosene. The requirement for involvement starts already this year at around 1% and will gradually increase up to almost 30% for 2030. It may be a good idea to involve renewable fuels in order to reduce the climate impact of aviation. However, we must remember that the most important measure to reduce aviation emissions is to reduce air traffic per se. In practice, the government lacks an active policy here. The airline tax was good, but in its present structure it only affects the margin, and it does not compensate in the long term for the large subsidies to the aviation industry that exist today. One gets the feeling that the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government choose the seemingly simplest measure to reduce aviation emissions but unfortunately not the most effective. Is it perhaps because Annie Lööf is sitting in the back seat in charge of government policy? However, there are even more important objections to the government's proposal on the reduction obligation and compulsory incorporation of biofuels. With this bill, combined with the government's policy on the reduction obligation for the road sector, the demand for biofuels will increase significantly to 55 terawatt hours by 2030. So how much is 55 terawatt hours? In Sweden, about 90 terawatt hours of fuel are consumed each year. Of these, about 20 terawatt hours are renewable. In other words, 55 terawatt hours of biofuels would mean more than doubling the current use of biofuels. Then let us remember that Sweden is already today one of the world's largest users and one of the world's largest importers of biofuels. With this, then, we are going to double the use compared to today. Everyone knows this is a very difficult way to go. We know that the production of biofuels can lead to very large conflicts of interest. We have all seen reports that forests are being destroyed, that food production is being squeezed away in favour of biofuel production, that indigenous peoples and small farmers are being forced off their land to make room for business biofuel production, etcetera. But biofuels can also be produced sustainably, for example from agricultural and forestry residues. Or as we produce biogas in Sweden: from household waste, for example. According to the study that forms the basis of this proposal, Biojet for aviation, crude pine oil is expected to become the most important raw material for biojet fuel for aviation in Sweden. We should remember that crude pine oil is a by-product of the pulp production of the forest industry, and it already has a clear field of application today. The use potential of crude pine oil is thus limited. Ultimately, this whole issue of biofuels becomes a question of how to use our land. Because the ground is limited. Therefore, a reasonable question to the supporters of this proposal is: how are the 55 terawatt hours of biofuels to be produced? Is there more forest to be cut down? Should we import even more from other countries with the conflicts that it brings? I hope not, and I expect a clear answer today in this debate from the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. We in the Left Party share the opinion of the Nature Conservation Association and other bodies that it is necessary to review nationally what forms of biofuels we can actually invest in. We in the Left Party believe that biomass should be used where it is most useful because it is a limited resource that can only replace parts of the fossil dependence that we have today. We believe that much better regulations are needed for low environmental and climate impacts on biomass extraction. For example, we believe that whole trees and stumps cannot be considered as sustainable raw materials for the production of biofuels. It should be about residues, i.e. things that cannot be used for anything else. Biomass extraction must also not hinder our efforts to halt the ongoing depletion of biodiversity both here in Sweden and at global level. The Left Party is strongly critical that the Government does not act with regulations in forestry to strengthen environmental concerns in forestry. Madam President, I would like We should not replace one problem with another. That is why we in the Left Party want the government to urgently come back with a new proposal for legislation on reduction obligations in order to strengthen the sustainability of biofuels with regard to biodiversity, climate performance and indigenous rights. If it is not possible to produce enough biofuels in a sustainable manner without negative displacement effects, the proposed reduction curve must be re-designed to reduce the use of biofuels. Then the government will have to come back with other measures to reduce aviation emissions. The most effective and concrete way of doing this is through measures that reduce overall flying and thus reduce emissions. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of the Left Party's Amendment No 3, which concerns the very issues I have now raised.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-53	Madam President, I would like The environmental and climate impact of aviation shall be reduced. The Christian Democrats therefore support the Government's proposal for a reduction obligation for kerosene. However, the Christian Democrats believe that the proposal should be accompanied by an ambitious investment in the production of bio-jet fuel in our neighbourhood. Increased production of biofuels is important both for new jobs in Sweden and to increase security of supply. In 2014, Europe's first stationary biojet fuel facility was opened, of course in the beautiful Värmland and then at the airport in Karlstad. In the good old days when we still got to travel I was there on a study visit and was told that during the years before the pandemic had had quite a problem with producing the biojet. The plant was there, but not the fuel. In my oblivion I thought that the fuel that was there, in the forest county of Värmland, naturally came from residues from forestry, but that was not the case, but what was obtained was used frying oil from hamburger restaurants, which were shipped from California. That was the biofuels available on the market at the time. Of course, we must provide incentives to increase domestic production. Only with the residual products we leave untouched from forestry today could we make biojets for all domestic flights in Sweden, and then we talk about traffic as it was before we shut down the pandemic. In addition, we must mark harder against the EU and the aversion against biofuels that seems to exist in Brussels. Here the government must step up and really demonstrate sustainable Swedish forestry and not act like today, as some government representatives rather slander Swedish sustainable forestry. Madam President, I would like The control stations announced in the Act every three years should be used to analyse the availability and price development of biojet fuels and other fossil-free aviation fuels. However, the Christian Democrats take seriously the view that the proposal for a reduction obligation does not seem to harmonize with other instruments regulating the climate impact of aviation, in particular the EU emissions trading scheme. Reduction obligation is a requirement for fuel suppliers, but it is the airlines that buy and consume the fuel, and it is also the airlines that report CO2 emissions from the use of the fuel to the Environmental Protection Agency and the EU ETS. In order to do this, airlines need emission credits for their bio-jet fuel. The proposal does not regulate how airlines should credit for the emission credits for fuel. The consequence may be that no emission reduction at all is recorded for aviation, as well as that EU ETS airlines may be forced to report and pay for 100% fossil emissions despite the involvement of the biojet. The aim of the Government's proposal is to reduce the climate impact of aviation, and then the reduction obligation must support the conversion and provide incentives for airlines to refuel in Sweden. The government's investigation Biojet for aviation stated: ..................................................... The bill states that the Government does not believe that there should be obstacles to the use of bio-jet fuel used by a fuel supplier to meet the reduction obligation by an EU ETS airline. However, the proposal needs to be supplemented by the transfer of emission credits to the airlines purchasing the bio-jet fuel under the reduction obligation. The Christian Democrats believe that airlines that pay for the bio-jet fuel should also be able to credit for the emission credit in order to achieve the purpose of the reduction obligation. We believe that an implementation assignment can be given to the responsible authorities, for example regarding fuel reporting to the Swedish Energy Agency and the airlines' emission reporting to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in order to ensure that airlines can use the emission reduction from biojet fuel. In view of this, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 7. In the report, on the subject of the committee's position, the majority writes a rather long paragraph which concerns our reservation. It concludes with the following: aeronautical kerosene reduction obligation does not therefore mean that airlines will have to report biofuels as fossil fuels within the EU ETS. However, the aviation industry, wise from past experience, is not as confident as the government in its view of this. There are great uncertainties, and so we choose to exercise on this. The industry itself says in a statement that it is positive that the committee wants airlines to be able to credit themselves with the emission reduction from biofuels. However, the challenge lies in the fact that the committee's assessment is not necessarily based on reality. It is known from Norway that airlines do not always get emission reductions, and now Sweden risks ending up in the same situation if we legislators deny ourselves the opportunity to regulate. That is precisely why we want to ensure that this really does happen. The flight is extremely important for the whole of Sweden to live. The flight is public transport, as well as the metro here in Stockholm. The government welcomes public transport and is happy to facilitate it, but when it comes to aviation, the government still has a very long way to go. First, you have to realise that aviation is actually needed for the sake of the whole of Sweden if you really want the whole of Sweden to live.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-67	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on the reduction obligation for kerosene. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. We live in an international world, and it is important to safeguard an open world where people can meet. But we need to move in more sustainable ways. Emissions from the international transport sector are expected to increase and aviation and shipping will become the major global emitters if these sectors are not regulated to comply with the Paris Agreement. One of Sweden's most important climate targets is to reduce emissions in the transport sector by 70 per cent by 2030. Electrification can help to reduce emissions from the transport sector more quickly, and therefore infrastructure expansion is needed to support and speed up this development. But we also need to reduce the climate impact of transport through the involvement of sustainable biofuels in petrol and diesel. For this we have the reduction obligation, which is now being proposed to extend to kerosene. This is an important decision we are facing. With the reduction obligation, we have a powerful tool for large emission reductions, and it is absolutely crucial for us to meet the climate targets in the transport sector. Now it is also the flight that is seriously to change. Madam President, I would like Access to sustainable biofuels is, of course, a key issue. We have also heard this earlier in this debate. It is essential that the reduction levels for kerosene do not increase at a faster rate than the availability of sustainable biofuels. The Government's assessment is that the levels proposed by the Biojet investigation for the period 2021 – 2030 are well balanced, and these are the levels proposed in the bill. As there is uncertainty as to the development of the market for bio-jet fuels, it is important to carefully analyse the introduction of a reduction obligation in order to assess whether the system should be adjusted. It is important to emphasise the importance of the inspection posts to be implemented and, according to the committee's assessment, the control posts will provide sufficient flexibility to deal with developments in the market for biofuels. Madam President, I would like Increasing domestic biofuel production is extremely important for the transformation, and the government has implemented a series of measures to support development. Funds have been added for continued support for the production of biogas. And the scope of the industrial life has been broadened, for example in order to provide support for industrial projects in the field of biofuels. The Energy Authority examines the need for additional instruments to promote the production of biofuels with new technologies and will extend the effort to promote sustainable biofuels for aviation and extend the mandate to all sustainable renewable fuels for aviation. The reduction obligation in itself also provides improved conditions for increased production of sustainable biofuels for aviation in Sweden. The proposed reduction levels will provide long-term conditions for investments in production facilities and promote long-term and large-scale production of fuels in Sweden. Swedish production is expected to provide biofuels with high climate performance, which gives increased competitiveness in a system with a reduction obligation. Sweden's ability to produce climate-efficient biofuels for both the road transport sector and aviation will thus be promoted by the reduction obligation. A reduction obligation for the aviation sector thus results in emission reductions while supporting the transition to a more circular and bio-based economy. Madam President, I would like When we talk about conversion for the aviation sector, the reduction obligation has an important role to play in reducing emissions. However, it is important that increased use of biofuels is combined with other measures to reduce the climate impact of aviation. These include the choice of other modes of transport, more efficient routes, more efficient aircraft, hydrogen and electrification. The Government has announced several measures to promote this change in the Climate Action Plan. Madam President, I would like A reduction obligation for aviation will reduce the climate impact of aviation and help strengthen Swedish industry's transition to a bio-based economy. A requirement for the involvement of biofuels also increases the likelihood of spill-over effects and of accelerating international work on a fossil-free flight. We in Sweden have a strong tradition of changing. With the transition to a fossil-free society, we face the climate threat and can at the same time create new green jobs. Through an active climate policy, Sweden takes precedence and invests in climate-friendly technology, which strengthens our companies' competitiveness. It is important for jobs, for well-being and for our planet that the transition takes place on time. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-81	Madam President, I would like The study on which this proposal is based, the Biojet study, led by Maria Wetterstrand, states: If the reduction curve proposed by the government is used, the need for biofuels will increase. It is about 420 000 cubic metres of biofuels by 2030. 420 000 cubic metres of biofuels are incredibly high. And, as I said in my speech, this proposal combined with the reduction obligation for road traffic means a total need for 55 terawa t hours in the case of biofuels. That's an extreme amount. It is more than a doubling of current levels of biofuels. Then I would like to ask Mrs Burwick a question. I know that the Social Democrats also want to protect a lot of forest – I think so. And I do not think that the Social Democrats want us to import biofuels produced on plantations where the rain forest used to be, or from areas where indigenous peoples are forced to leave, etcetera. In short, then, we must have a production of renewable fuels that is sustainable in every sense, socially and ecologically. Therefore, my question to Marlene Burwick is: where is the raw material for all these biofuels to be taken?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-83	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! For us Social Democrats, it is extremely important that we conduct a policy so that we meet the climate goals that we agree on here in the Swedish Parliament. And we will be able to cut emissions by 70% in the transport sector by 2030. For us, too, aviation is an extremely important sector, which we need to change. As I mentioned in my speech, we will have to do a variety of things in order to change the flight, but one important thing is to use biofuels. Our view and that of the government is that we will be able to do this with the imports we are making and, above all, with a significant increase in the production of domestic biofuels. This is also linked to the control stations mentioned in the bill. It will monitor developments closely and, of course, adjustments will need to be made if we see reasons for this. But our view is that the efforts made by the government to increase production and the signal of the reduction obligation in itself will lead to a significant increase in the production of domestic sustainable biofuels. It is extremely important to cope with climate change.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-85	Madam President, I would like It sounds like we agree that we should stop importing biofuels produced, for example, from palm oil, but also from residues from palm oil. In short, we will stop importing biofuels that come from other countries where tropical forests used to be, for example. But what Marlene Burwick does not respond to concerns the large domestic production that is needed. It is a gigantic production that needs to be scaled up. This is not just about aviation and 420 000 cubic metres of biofuels, but also about road traffic. There, an even greater use is expected. I wonder what happens if we stop importing, because today we are importing almost all the biofuels that we use in road traffic. My question remains: where is the raw material to be taken? It's usually mostly the forest you talk about. What is also mentioned in the Biojet investigation is crude pine oil, which is a residual product from the cellulose industry. But let us remember that crude pine oil today has many uses in the chemical industry. You produce glue, glue, tape, colors and other things. I can imagine that we want to continue to have glue, adhesives, tape and colors based on crude pine oil. Then the question is: How much raw material do we have left to produce in a sustainable way without cutting down new growing forests with a high biodiversity? At least that is something we in the Left Party are opposed to. It must be a production from residual products. Where is the raw material to be taken?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-88	Madam President, I would like I have had the privilege to meet a lot of entrepreneurs around Sweden and also many researchers at our universities and colleges. Before the pandemic I had the opportunity to meet them physically, but during the pandemic there have been a lot of digital meetings. The development of sustainable biofuels is currently taking place extremely quickly. We talk, of course, about forest waste but also about household waste. We're talking about algae, and we're talking about oilseeds. We are talking about technology that is currently really being implemented and emerging. A lot of things are going to happen. The government has made many efforts to support this development, and the reduction decision itself will lead to many also daring to make decisions to invest in production. We Social Democrats really want to cope with climate change, also linked to the fact that we can continue to fly green. It seems that there is a difference between our parties in this regard. For us, it is important to continue to protect aviation but in a way that will ensure that we fly sustainably in the future.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-93	Madam President, I would like There is much that is amazing about being politically active, being involved in a political party and fighting for a better society. It's amazing to get involved, it's amazing to make ideas up, it's fantastic to discuss with others how these ideas should best look and it's also a really good feeling when ideas and suggestions that you've worked for a long time and worked for actually come true. Madam President, I would like For us center parties, this is such a day. In our view, raising the ambitions for the reduction obligation for aviation, as for other modes of transport, that is to say, increasing the requirements and ambitions in order to be able to mix in sustainably produced biofuels instead of fossil oil, is a crucial part of changing to a more sustainable society. This is also something that we have had to push for quite a long time, and that is precisely why we feel a bit of the sweetness of victory here today. I imagine that Mr Nordin, who has been struggling with this for a long time, would have been happy to have stood here in the speaker's chair and enjoyed this sweetness, but I know he has celebrated in other ways. Madam President, I would like Why, then, is this worth celebrating? Because this is precisely one of the important measures that we take, both in substance and as a symbol, for the transition to a bio-based, circular economy and a more climate sustainable society that we need to do in Sweden as well as in the rest of the world. Air travel is often a symbol of untenable travel. It is a journey that is not accessible or everyday to everyone on equal terms, and it has large emissions per traveller. But in such a vast country as Sweden, far up the northern edge of our continent, aviation is important for our economy and for individuals who want to feel a sense of freedom in travelling. Madam President, I would like Flying thus gives both a sense of freedom and is a social benefit that we want to be able to retain in sustainable society as well. Somewhere you have to address the problem: Is it the emissions or the flying we are going to hunt? In our view, it is primarily emissions that are to be reduced. A reduction obligation is an important tool for achieving this ambition. When we now decide on a reduction obligation curve, where we say that an increasing share of renewable fuel should be mixed into the tank every time a plane is refuelled, we also say that now we are starting the conversion. We are replacing a fossil fuel that not only damages the climate but is also often imported from countries with absolutely terrible governance, countries that we would rather not support financially but on which we depend for our fossil resources. When we replace the fossil with Swedish biofuels that hopefully will be produced from sustainable and long-term cultivated Swedish forests, it is thus not only a profit for the climate but also a profit for the Swedish economy and a profit for a world that looks a little more like we want to see it. This isn't going to be easy. It is a rather ambitious decision that we are taking today. We know that the quantities of biofuels that we will need in 2030 are not in production today. What we are doing today, therefore, is not simply saying to airlines that a change must be made. At the other end, we also tell the companies, such as my forest owners' association, who are thinking about whether they will dare to take the investment in new production sites and in new factories for sustainable fuel that there will be a market here. Here there will be opportunities not only to do the climate a service but also to create sustainable growth in Sweden. We provide planning conditions so that you dare to take investments that are perhaps the biggest ones you do this decade, and we say that we want this to happen in Sweden. Our political responsibility to support this development must also be in this line. We are not finished today, but we also need to think about the conditions for taking these investments. What can we do to shorten the permit process? What can we do to ensure that we have the best possible conditions for achieving this? What can we do to have the courage to take the investment and to say to those who work in companies that there will be jobs here in the future as well? Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate there was a change of line on how the raw materials should be sufficient. Here, Madam President, I think we have one of the great risks in which we risk treading wrong and creating unnecessary uncertainty that can ultimately hinder exactly the type of sustainable growth and investment decision that we want to see. It is obvious to everyone that although Swedish forests can replace and do everything we can with fossil oil, it is not that we will replace exactly all fossil products and every bit of fossil fuel with, for example, fuel from Swedish forest raw materials. But, Madam President, it is an enormous risk if we believe that it is our role as Members of Parliament and politicians to go in and say exactly what is to be used where and when. It is always a mistake when political decision-makers think it is our role to go in and govern this, Madam President. I am not going to tell any stories about planned economy, because we must hope that we are not exactly where we land. But we can look at all the impasses that the EU has entered when it has tried to go in and steer through what is called cascade use, where it wants to go in and pinpoint exactly what raw material and which part of, for example, an East-Götsk pine to use when, where and to what. It's never gonna be good! It is far better to leave this to the market, Madam President. Then we simply have to trust that where the need and the benefits are greatest, the raw material will also be used. Madam President, I would like I note that my good colleague Rickard Nordin thought I would be finished in six minutes. That was not the case, but I will try to round off. I hope it has become clear to the Center Party that this is a big day. However, we cannot rest on the laurels. Now we have the directional decision. From now on, it is time to realise this and ensure that we phase out fossil resources using sustainable Swedish raw materials.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-108	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the reduction obligation for kerosene. Liberals believe that all modes of transport are needed, and aviation is an important cornerstone of Sweden's transport system. Sweden is an elongated country and is on the surface as large as Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands together. If we are to bridge the long distances, aviation is often the mode of transport that provides reasonable travel times, not least from Norrland. Private people want to travel on vacation and discover other parts of the world and visit family and friends. Air travel is a prerequisite for our many international companies to be able to meet customers and suppliers and for them to be able to transport goods with short delivery time. This is fundamental for a country like Sweden with our great export dependency. Sweden also plays a very important role in different contexts globally in relation to our size. If we want to continue to influence at that level, we must have good conditions in order to be physically in place. At the same time, aviation, like other modes of transport, must reduce its climate emissions in order to reach net zero by 2045. The aircraft is starting to see a light on the horizon after the pandemic and, despite a tough economic time, needs to drive a climate shift. The ambition is in the roadmap for a fossil-free flight. It includes several areas such as electric aviation, fuels such as biofuels and hydrogen and also climate compensation. Madam President, I would like Electric aircraft and new hydrogen aircraft are under development. Electric Elflyg can be introduced after 2025. We need to prepare our airport structure for that. However, what can be done here and now to reduce emissions on a larger scale is to push for the involvement of biofuels in aviation kerosene. The Liberals, in cooperation with the Center Party and the Government, have therefore drawn up the proposal for a reduction obligation for aviation and support the committee's proposal for a decision. The implementation of the reduction obligation depends entirely on the production capacity of biofuels for kerosene. The incorporation of biofuels is intended to increase gradually from 0.8 per cent in 2021 to 27 per cent in 2030. It provides a long-term perspective for the producers of bio-jet fuel and makes them dare to invest. At the same time, the liberals have pushed for the need for control posts. Experience with reduction systems for kerosene is limited. So far it has only been introduced in Norway. Control stations are needed, among other things, to study whether production capacity is in line with the need for bio-jet fuel for the reduction obligation. The reason is to avoid negative consequences such as strong price increases due to a shortage of biofuels, which in turn can reduce the number of routes and reduce accessibility in Sweden. In the long term, electrofuels can also be used for the production of bio-jet fuels. Biofuel production itself produces climate emissions. The reduction obligation provides incentives for the production of low greenhouse gas biofuels, which favours the use of residues and waste as raw materials and also the use of fossil-free energy. For the Liberals, however, it is important that the production of biofuels has a positive climate impact in the near future and does not contribute to climate emissions in the period up to 2030. The possibility of refuelling bio-jet fuel can make Sweden attractive as a destination for airlines, as they can, in the government's view, be credited with the reduction of emissions from bio-jet fuel in the EU emissions allowance scheme. Here, the climate action can provide an advantage for Sweden and potentially provide new routes into Europe, which is very positive. Finally, Madam President, it is gratifying that the government estimates that the Biojet investigation's forecast of the need for bio-jet fuel, which was made before the pandemic, is still holding. This shows the government's strong confidence in the re-launch of aviation after the pandemic and a rapid return to the normal pre-pandemic levels. It also has implications for other discussions in this House in the field of aviation, for example on the need for airport capacity.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-117	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is good that we are now getting this in place. Everything else is similar, of course, so that it is better to use renewable raw materials in the tank than fossil. In this way, we can reduce the climate impact of aviation. Nevertheless, I wanted to devote quite a lot of time to describing why this is just a piece of the puzzle and that, of course, this in itself is not enough by a long way. I have several reasons for that. Firstly, this is not a global solution. It's not upscalable globally. Sweden is already a major net importer of biofuels. And if the entire world's fleet were to turn into biofuels, all land in the world would have to be grown up for biofuels. Of course, we can't have that. It is therefore not a global sustainable solution. It cannot be scaled up on a global scale. Secondly, the benefits of climate change are limited for a little different reasons. First of all, there is no escape from the huge adverse climate effects that occur when the aircraft is at high altitude – the so-called high altitude effects. They are not escaped by replacing fossil fuels with biofuels. Therefore, the 27% reduction obligation will not lead to 27% less climate impact, but significantly less than that. Biofuels have the positive characteristic that carbon dioxide, so to speak, is re-energised. But it's only in the long term. In the short term biofuels also have a climate impact. The climate benefit is there, but it is limited. Thirdly, we cannot solve the climate challenge at the expense of biodiversity. If there is too much pressure on bio-materials, there will be consequences for biodiversity. We cannot accept that. On top of all this and with all the problems with biofuels – although there is a benefit to climate change, all these problems – one can say that aviation in general is a climate accident because other technologies also come with a number of problems. Some people tend to highlight electrification as a possible way forward. I want to be very clear that I really hope that we can electrify as much of the flight as possible. However, there is no serious judge today who believes that electrification could take more than 10 – 15 percent of the total flight volume, and it is only 2050 – 2060. It is therefore a very marginal part of the transition. It also takes 20 years to reset the entire fleet. So once the electrification has fully passed, it will still take 20 years for all aircraft to be replaced. I'll explain why it's difficult to electrify a larger part of the fleet. It is purely physical fact that is the reason for this. For example, a jumbo jet to be flown across the Atlantic – Stockholm – New York or similar – weighs about 80 tons. In order for a battery to withstand such a heavy body in the air for that long, the battery itself will weigh 180 tons. The aircraft weighs 80 tons and the battery 180 tons. It is quickly understood that electrification is only a small part of this. All of this leads to the perfectly obvious conclusion that aviation needs to be reduced compared to the pre-pandemic levels. It is a conclusion that is quite self-evident to anyone who does not want to defy the laws of physics and at the same time achieve the climate goals. We are living in a global climate emergency, and it is quite quick to note that in this House we have a uniquely terrible climate opposition on the right. In spite of all these conclusions, it is clear that we do not want to tackle the climate problems of aviation. There was previously an Instagram account called Atingslösa influencers, and I think you should talk more about mindless politicians. If you look at the policy of the opposition, you can see that the first thing the Moderates did when Corona struck was to say that you should remove the airline tax. Apparently, it's okay to fly more during a pandemic and in a climate emergency. The collective right also threatened to dismiss ministers when we introduced the air tax. Air travel does not, therefore, account for any of its climate damage today, but it was willing to set aside ministers because the government was even considering introducing a tax on flying. The Liberals, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats are now also obstinateing the government's perfectly reasonable attempt to close Bromma airport. You don't want to stay there, you want to double Arlanda. We therefore want to increase air travel significantly at a time when, once again, we are living in a global climate emergency and where, moreover, it is not on the map that new technologies can enter the pace that would be required for aviation to increase. All of this stands in stark contrast with the Green Party's policy of flying. First of all, put down Bromma! Don't expand Arlanda! This would result in a powerful increase in flying during the climate emergency we are living in. We also want to introduce congestion taxes at airports and mandatory climate information both when the ticket is purchased and when the airlines advertise the tickets, just to mention a few examples. Of course, we also want the alternatives. Build high-speed tracks, fast! It will be able to compete out large parts of domestic aviation. Buy a night train to more destinations! Now we are about to do it down to the continent, but we should increase at work and get night trains to more destinations. Also, make a general renovation of the railway, so that it can simply take a larger share of the domestic transport! With this kind of policy, we can both reduce flying and make it more sustainable that expands the options needed for us to be able to transport sustainably in this country in the future as well. I support the committee's proposal.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-134	Madam President, I would like I wrote a question before Lorentz Tovatt went up to the speaker's seat, namely: What does the Green Party really want with the flight? However, I feel that the answer was quite clear with this debate. It is very obvious that you are not particularly interested in changing but actually want to shut down. It is in itself a good thing that one of the government parties is speaking out, but that makes me a little concerned when we actually stand here today and decide on an instrument which at least we on the Moderate side welcome and have been looking forward to for a long time, namely calls for the involvement of biofuels. If it is the case that the government's actual attitude is to shut down aircraft, one might wonder how interested the government will be in getting the production of domestic biofuels going. It may even be the case that the Green Party is looking forward to increasing the price so that it actually shuts down the back door. For the Moderates it is quite clear that this is a good instrument for getting more green fuel into the tank but that it must be combined with efforts to get production going. The Green Party has recently expressed its views on the matter and stated that it wants to double the amount of protected forest in Sweden. Then the question follows, where do we get these domestic biofuels, when the Green Party does not want to use the forest in practice? Although we come from a bit different directions in this debate, several parties have been on this issue. How does government policy go together? The truth is, it doesn't. The government was very quick to introduce a flight tax that hit all flights hard, without any kind of environmental impact, but this has taken seven years to produce. So it seems that the genuine will of at least one of the two government parties is actually to shut down flights. My questions are therefore: how are we going to reach the target of 30% in the long term if we are not to be able to use the forest? And what is the government doing to promote the development of electric and hydrogen air transport that we are now seeing? What does the government do to change?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-139	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Jessica Rosencrantz! First of all, the Swedish Energy Agency has a mission to look at domestic production. I probably partly share Jessica Rosencrantz's enthusiasm for a better production in Sweden and for it to be sustainable, of course. We can protect more forest and at the same time make better use of it. We can make more use of residues than we do today. I still have to ask a question back to Jessica Rosencrantz. It is often the case in climate debates that anyone who wants to do something for the climate and for us to achieve our climate goals is the one who has the burden of proof. Jessica Rosencrantz's policy does not go together at all if we are to reach the Paris Agreement. Swedes fly five times the global average. It is at levels that are far from sustainable. I have presented in my speech in a very educational way why technology development does not take us all the way to goal; it is like physical constitutions that prevent us from taking us all the way to goals with the aid of new technologies alone in relation to the Paris Agreement. So if Jessica Rosencrantz cares about the Paris Agreement, she will sooner or later have to accept that we will need to change behaviour. So why should the burden of proof be on those who want to achieve the climate goals? Why should those who slow down and strive against not be asked what they want to do to reach the Paris Agreement? Biofuels won't get us to the finish line. That is something that the right hand often brings – biofuels, biofuels and biofuels – but it will not take us all the way. Therefore, does Jessica Rosencrantz have to respond to what she wants to do in addition to that in order for us to get to the goal of the Paris Agreement?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-143	Madam President, I would like It is rather bleak to listen to the Green Party; it is like backing into the future. You say no to biofuels. You say no to electricity. I don't know about hydrogen, but probably you say no even there. So you have had seven years, Lorentz Tovatt, and that is quite a long time to put in place various instruments to promote aviation in a sustainable direction. The Moderates have long wanted a reduction obligation, and we have wanted differentiated take-off and landing charges. In our draft budget, we spend a lot of money on research and development of both electric aviation and sustainable domestic fuels. We would like to see the government really pushing to change the rules that make it impossible for us to have a tax on aviation fuel today, but we are opposed to a tax on the aircraft seat. It does not require the airlines to change, but simply to shut down. My question remains, after all. I do not see that there really is any genuine willingness to change, because if you seriously thought that was the aim of our aviation policy – that we should be able to fly green in the future, to use the words of our fellow government Social Democrats – you should not shut down airports without expanding others. Then you should not introduce aviation taxes without climate effect. You have to do the right things. I usually say that this government engages in symbolic politics, but sometimes I actually want to use worse words than that. It is stupid not to steer towards a sustainable flight in the future. Again, what is the policy forward? Is it the government's view that we should shut down Bromma without expanding Arlanda? Should we in practice reduce the amount of forest we will use in Sweden? Is that the solution for changing the flight, when we need to do the opposite in principle? What is government policy? Is what Lorentz Tovatt stands here today saying the government's overall policy in this area, or is it a party submission from one of the government parties? If so, who is speaking for the government in this House?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-147	Madam President, I would like We're not backing into the future, we're taking the train into the future. This is the most sustainable if we are to achieve our climate goals. First of all, we want to change the flight; the government is in full agreement on that. The government also agrees that we cannot fly as much as we like. I am here as a representative of the Green Party, and I report on the policy of the Green Party. The Government is welcome to present the Government's overall policy. I am not getting away from the fundamental problem of Jessica Rosencrantz's logic, namely that there are no physical conditions for achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement unless we also have behavioural changes. Instead, the Moderates want to fly into the future. This means, among other things, saying no to all alternatives. You definitely say no to night trains to the continent. You don't want no train. Swedes should not be able to lie down on a night train in Stockholm or Malmö and wake up in Brussels; the Moderates say no to that. The Moderates say no to high-speed routes, which have the greatest potential to replace precisely the unsustainable flights made between Stockholm and Gothenburg. The Moderates say no to the only way we have today to make flights pay for their climate impact, i.e. the air tax. This is the only way we have today to let them pay for themselves. You say no to that. Furthermore, it is ready to convict ministers and to remove them during a pandemic, which would not only be bad for the climate but also for the spread of infection in society. All of this is rejected. But the facts remain: we are not coming all the way. I subscribe to everything Jessica Rosencrantz wants to do when it comes to biofuels, electrification and all that, but that does not take us to the finish line. The most important thing here is that we should be able to cope with the climate, but the Moderates are obviously not interested in that.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-155	Madam President, I would like I would like to add a little to the previous discussion. This applies to the source from which the raw material for these biofuels is to be taken. This report talks about 400 000 cubic metres of new bio-jet fuel that is needed. The idea – even from the Green Party, if I have understood correctly – is that this should be produced in Sweden. Where is the raw material to be taken? The investigation on which this is based mentions crude pine oil as the main component. Then let us remember that crude pine oil already has widespread uses in the chemical industry. We can surely get more crude oil and produce some aviation fuel, and we can surely find some more residual products. I believe, however, that in the end we are standing there and must realise that this is a limited resource. I do not see any new concrete proposals from the government on how to solve this problem. Instead, we will have a reduction obligation for road traffic, which will further increase demand. Then we have the entire industry's fossil-free strategies within Fossil-free Sweden, where there is an incredible amount of biofuels to be used. How are you gonna get this together? My second question concerns how this is to be produced in a sustainable way, so that we do not cut down new growing forests with biodiversity. I do not see any new concrete proposals in this proposal aimed at strengthening biodiversity and strengthening the requirements for the raw material on which these biofuels are to be based. Maybe I read carelessly. Can Lorentz Tovatt tell us if there are any new concrete proposals to strengthen production requirements?
i-LKn59TDqHwYQvqxnMcCQU7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! I think I was relatively clear in my speech on where I stand on this issue, but we will take it one more time. I can also develop it a little. One can actually answer this question in three different ways. The first is to reduce demand. The second is about residual currents that are not currently used. Thirdly, the transfer of biofuel capacity from other sectors to aviation. Perhaps I can come back to the other two and start with the first answer. Just as Jens Holm says, these volumes are not sustainable. That is one of the major reasons why the Green Party thinks we should fly less. I see quite good conditions for pursuing this type of policy and that society in general is moving in that direction to quite a large extent. I see it as a matter of course to increase air tax and impose congestion charges and to take such measures. In addition to this, however, we should remember that the pandemic has meant that we will probably now have permanently less travelling by air. Not least the services will decrease permanently, and I would tip that we will not come back to previous levels ever in the future. This reduces the need for biofuels there and then. In addition, there is, of course, the whole debate on air cams. Much of it was started when we introduced the aviation tax – there was a debate in society about the very negative climate impact of aviation. I see several trends that benefit from the possibility not to come back to the same levels as before and thus also have a less need for as large volumes as it would be required if the forecasts as they looked before the pandemic would strike. I do not think it is very likely that they will come true, so I think we will have a less need in the future. I will come back to the other two questions.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-166	Madam President, I would like That's amazing: for two minutes Lorentz Tovatt did not answer one of my questions. There is nothing strange about us as parties agreeing that we need to fly less. We agree on a number of things, such as increasing air tax, closing Bromma airport and expanding high-speed routes. The only difference between the Left Party and the Green Party here is that we in the Left Party are actively pursuing this and that you in the Green Party are not putting forward a single such concrete proposal now that you are ruling in the government. What I am interested in is where the raw material, the substrate, is to be taken to these 420,000 cubic metres of biojet. Lorentz Tovatt says you can use residual currents. Perhaps you can do it a little bit, but tell us from where and what residual streams! How large volumes are there? Lorentz Tovatt also says that it is possible to take capacity from the production of other biofuels. Perhaps so, but in that case we must have less biofuels in other areas. Then I think you should be honest and say it. Then, and perhaps above all, I would like to ask: is there any concrete proposal in this proposal, which the Green Party has been involved in developing, which strengthens the requirements for sustainability in the production of the new biofuels to be produced? I think this is a requirement of decency. If production is to increase so much and there is a risk of conflicts of interest – that is, the risk of biodiversity being threatened – this must be reconciled with new demands to protect biodiversity in production. I do not see it, but one will rely on the same old sustainability statement that exists under the second reduction obligation law. I don't see any new proposals, but Lorentz Tovatt is happy to tell you if there is.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-172	Madam President, I would like I have to say, it's almost gonna be a little ridiculous here. I was very clear that I would come back to these questions in my second line. In addition to this, it is in fact a direct untruth that the Green Party would not pursue this policy. I focused on behavioural change because it is the most important way to reduce the need to involve more biofuels. That is the most important part, and that is something that Jens Holm should welcome – it goes in line with his own policy. In addition, it was we who introduced the air tax, against the will of a general parliament in principle, so to say that we should not pursue this is, in fact, a nonsense. I turn to the other two questions. As I said, we should not involve more, because I think we should reduce flying, but when it comes to what we should well involve, there are residual streams that come from branches and tops. It is quite clear that this potential exists and that this can be taken out in a sustainable way – our authorities, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, believe that this can be done in a sustainable way. But we have energy efficiency measures to take in other sectors. We can make the heating sector more energy efficient. We can streamline the entire car fleet and how we transport on the roads; there can be quite a lot of resources released. As I said: If we move from, for example, bio-fired cogeneration to solar heat or some heat pumps, in some cases, we have the potential to take bio-raw material from there. Firstly, we should not involve as much as Jens Holm claims. We're going to involve percentages, but we're going to reduce the total volumes. Secondly, we are going to take residual streams that exist – sustainable. Thirdly, we will make the other sectors more efficient so that we can free up resources from other sectors and use them in aircraft.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-180	Madam President, I would like I know that it is a bit unorthodox to ask for a line on a proposal that our parties agree on in substance, have negotiated together and where we will hopefully win in this House – pepper, pepper, wood. But I've still chosen to ask for a line. I have done it for the joy of debate – it is not the first time that I and Mr Lorentz are in speaking chairs together – but also because I thought it was a rather unusual speech. Rarely has a representative of a government party sounded so depressed that a bill has been put forward that will lead to emission reductions and that one still believes that one will get through in Parliament's Chamber. I do not think there is any reason for Mr Tovatt to be so depressed. There is no reason to say, as the honourable Member did at the beginning of his speech, that this is good and will lead to emission reductions and then deliver a litany of sorrow at how terrible it is. This is, of course, everything else equal, something that will lead to emission reductions. So a reduction in emissions is a reduction in emissions, and that is a good thing, isn't it? It's another thing that I was a little bit wondering about. As I said in my own speech, this is something that will contribute to reduced emissions but hopefully also to more green jobs in Sweden. This means that we will have to increase the production of biofuels, just as we have been talking about, and that is something we want to do. I hear Mr Tovatt's concern that biofuels, such as forest raw materials, will not be enough. Then my question is: Can it not be good to change the Green Party's line and perhaps be a little more positive that forest owners can use their forest as they want, that we start counting the forest that we have protected from production or somehow put restrictions on, in the same way as all other EU countries do, so that there is hope that we will be able to increase the yield and also increase growth even more than we do in Sweden?
i-6zuHBN7yb6WxoEZoERCxHj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for the questions! I understand that I seemed very negative, but of course I'm happy about this product. I worked in the Government Office when we set up this investigation and were driving it. But I still think it's important to be able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time: Yes, we're going to reset the flight, but we're also going to have to reduce flying. Having these two thoughts in your head at the same time is the logical consequence of the physical limitations that exist in terms of the sustainability of aviation. This means that I would like to ask a question back to Magnus Ek. Can Magnus Ek admit that we will need behavioural changes even when it comes to aviation, given that biofuels and electrification do not take us all the way, in order to reduce climate impact overall? Of course, I think it is very important for us to protect more forests in order to safeguard diversity and also because the forest binds a lot of carbon. Having said that, we will be able to increase the withdrawal rate if we do so properly. Already today you can increase the withdrawal of branches and tops, caves, to quite a large extent. Even if we protect more forest, there will always be residues at sawmills and residues that are used in different ways in our society. Whether it is in the form of plastic or wood products or whatever it may be that you produce with the bio-raw material, it will sooner or later lead to a residual product that we will be able to use. I think it's possible to get the calculation together, but it'll be difficult.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-190	Madam President, I would like Of course, we're going to need behavioral changes on the airside just like on others. Lorentz Tovatt himself mentioned that we will also travel on the road in a completely different way. I expect that when I retire one day, in at least 50 years, I probably won't own my own car. Hopefully it's a self-driving electric car that I share with someone else. I look forward to that future. The transformation of society in all parts also means a change of behaviour. This is not really something that is very radical. If we look as soberly in this sector, do we think we're gonna stop flying? No, I'm sure there'll always be a need for it. This is one of the sectors where it is most difficult to reduce emissions. I think we all agree on that, if we think about it for a minute. That is precisely why I think we should be very happy about every emission reduction we can find for this sector, especially in the early stages of the transition. And that is precisely why I am so happy that Mr Tovatt is actually a little happier after this line shift. On the forest side, it is clear that we will use every ounce of raw material more efficiently, also because it is a good business for the climate, for us as forest owners, for the companies that have the factories that find the new solutions and for everyone who works in the industry. But the residual products do not become more, but they are what they are per cubic metre that we have. If we want more emission reductions here and in other sectors, we must benefit everything that keeps the development that we have had in the 20th century, namely that forest reserves and productivity are increasing and that we are picking out more per hectare. What is so amazing is that this is happening in harmony with the preservation of biological and social values. The problem is if we try to shake this balance and protect more and more. Then we'll have a hard time getting it together.
i-63pTtyDNEp6tMN3DrsVjzj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for the line shift! I was a little happy before, but perhaps I was even more happy when I heard Magnus Ek say that we will obviously need behavioural changes, because that is not the way it usually sounds when I debate with center parties in this House. I will not mention any names, but usually it is perhaps even the opposite of what Magnus Ek now said. This is the kind of rhetoric that usually occurs from center parties. That is because there is a great deal of opposition to, for example, the air tax and other types of measures that are about restricting flying in different ways, which I believe is a prerequisite for us to achieve the Paris Agreement. It's very fun if Magnus Ek agrees with me about that analysis and if he can also bring his party along on that line. As far as residues are concerned, once again, what I see as an opportunity here is to take advantage of those residues which are not currently used. Of course, they are not endless. For example, in northern Sweden much of the remaining branches and peaks are not collected. There is a potential to increase the outlet. We should not be too optimistic here, because we need to protect more nature and forest. We have committed ourselves to this in international conventions and the like, so that is something that we really need to do. On the one hand, we are committed to this, and on the other hand, we need to preserve more of the forest we have today in order to retain red-listed species and have access to the fantastic recreational area of the forest, and so on. There's a lot of reason to do that. We will protect a lot of forest, but we will also be better at using residual products.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-200	Madam President, I would like The report we are now having to debate is on criminal matters. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. We support our two reservations, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation number 20 on the criminalisation of escapes. As with the rest of society, last year was an extraordinary year for penitentiary services. The Government's efforts to increase security and to tackle gang crime and other crime have meant that the Riksdag has decided on a wide range of measures. In order to cope with these, the Prison Service's resources have been increased by 350 million, and the funding will be increased in the coming years. In addition to this, additional resources are added to the spring budget. Prison services have had full detention centres and prisons in 2020 – and this from an already strained situation at the beginning of the year. For the second year in a row, the Agency presented a capacity report in March, which substantially revised the need for detention centres and prisons up to 2030. Intensive work is under way to address the long-term capacity needs and the number of permanent posts is increased in several institutions in the country. Two new institutions will be built in Trelleborg and Kalmar. In addition, the location of another larger institution is investigated. Of the 18 construction projects under way on the institutional side, new modular buildings are under way at five institutions, and new sites are under production for four more. On the custody side, a newly built detention centre and care facilities have been opened in Östersund, and several already planned projects are being expanded. In addition, additional places are added – including in Jönköping, which with its geographical location is important from a transport point of view. Despite extensions, there will continue to be a need for emergency and temporary places, according to the Prison Service's assessment. Of course, the current situation places great demands on the prison services to carry out high-quality activities while maintaining safety. For the staff working closest to the clients, the workload is the toughest, especially since also 2020 has meant major changes to be able to handle the coronapandemine, with restraining orders, cancellations of leave and illness among staff and inmates. One of the main challenges facing the prison system in the future is to cope with the long-term supply of skills and to ensure a good working environment for the staff. There are great demands on those who work closely with their clients, which is why they need to increase, have good education and skills development and good working conditions. This is crucial for a high-quality business. In spite of the very strained situation, the prison system succeeds in maintaining a very good operation in all material respects. Serious and very serious incidents last year were at a relatively stable level compared to 2019. There have been no escapes from detention centres or prisons in classes 1 and 2 during the year. For clients with a medium or high risk of relapse, the goal is for as many as possible to undergo a treatment program. Last year, the rate of completion of a treatment programme increased. Employment and studies in prison last year were about the same level as before, although high occupancy and pandemic made it difficult to create employment for more inmates. There were 30 labour market training courses in consultation with Arbetsförmedlingen, and the number of courses and training courses started increased. This was a sample of the prison service's activities last year. Madam President, I would like I will also say something about the very valuable work that civil society is doing in detention centres and prisons. During the spring I have met several organisations that with grants from the Prison Service conduct visiting activities. Some of these are Spring Sun in Jönköping, Red Cross, Fryshuset and RFSU. Their efforts are an invaluable complement to the activities of the penitentiary. They form a bridge to life outside with a focus on the individual and life beyond crime, but they are also a support for children and relatives found on the outside. For those in custody, there is a window of time to reflect on choices and opportunities for change, and here civil society organisations can make a difference, which is particularly important for children and young people. Madam President, I would like I see the role and voice of civil society as particularly important in contributing nuances and humanism in the criminal debate. Madam President, I would like I will briefly state our reservation on the proposal to criminalise escapes and why I think the announcement should be rejected. The number of prison escapes in class l and 2 has been zero in the last two years. As far as detention is concerned, it is a matter of an occasional escape. Criminalising escapes is therefore a bit like proposing a solution to a problem that is not really very large. Of course, there should be sanctions against those who violate rules and guidelines and deviate, but in my opinion they should only be taken when this happens and with the tools available to the prison services. Criminalisation means that this should instead be the subject of court proceedings, which is expensive, takes a long time and is cumbersome. Madam President, I would like In times when the life air of certain political forces is to play on people's fears, create insecurity, erase trust and divide people into us and they become the only way to deal with the problem of building more and higher walls to protect themselves. Walls are needed, but if only walls are the solution, it creates freedom for all of us. For those who are exposed, memory risks reducing their own freedom in the future. As a society, we have a responsibility to ensure, as far as possible, that the perpetrators of crime also manage to get out better in order to increase security and security for all. The best thing we can do to not get new clients in prison care is to keep society together, work crime prevention, care for the activities that build and strengthen people and that create strong societies and prioritise welfare before tax cuts.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-225	Madam President, I would like 400,000 registered users in a paedophile platform. 400,000! These are incredibly frightening numbers. Recently, a major strike was made against a paedophile platform. Europol and law enforcement authorities in six countries participated, including Sweden. The Pedophile Platform was on the hidden darknet platform, and the paedophiles exchanged films and pictures of children exposed to gross sexual abuse. Several pedophiles are arrested in Germany, and likely arrests will also take place in Sweden in this harrow. The terrible thing is that there are probably many of these pedophile platforms in Sweden. This is probably not the only one. Madam President, I would like Last week the Swedish police made a strike in the Stockholm area in another case. Nine suspected paedophiles were arrested for, among other things, child pornography crimes. Sexual abuse of children is an atrocious crime that will result in severe prison sentences. This is particularly important from a victim's perspective. The treatment program for sex offenders is based on cognitive behavioral therapy. Treatment with testosterone suppressant medicines, called pharmacological treatment, is rarely used. A while ago, a study from Karolinska Institutet was published in which about fifty pedophiles participated in a new form of medication. The study showed that those taking the medicine were at a lower risk of abuse as risk factors were reduced. We Moderates have exercised that prison is not enough intervention for child sexual abuse. New crimes should also be prevented in the future with pharmacological treatment. Today's debate is about this, among other things. I would like to thank the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats for supporting our motion directly. Then I would like to give an extra thank you to Helena Vilhelmsson of the Center Party, who did an important job and made an effort to get an announcement about this very urgent work to prevent sexual crimes against children. After the Center Party jumped on, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party withdrew their reservation, and this means that the whole committee is behind Moderate motion. According to the committee, pharmacological treatment should never mean that prison sentences are shorter. Prison services should be able to offer this as a relapse prevention programme and be able to prescribe it through special regulations in the context of probation. The treatment programmes for people who commit sexual offences against children need to be developed. The announcement means that the government should commission the Prison Service to inventory the research and design appropriate programs for pharmacological and other medical treatment of paedophiles. Now it is up to the government to act quickly. There's no time to lose. Children are subjected to sex crimes every day and every minute, it feels like anyway. Pedophiles must be fought with all their might. This clearly demonstrates the impact on the large paedophile platform. Madam President, I would like When I was working as a cop, I was investigating sexual crimes against children. I know how awfully bad the kids are after the abuse. Many are hurting themselves, and some are taking their own lives. Among other things, I had a 15-year-old girl who was raped by her stepfather. She had cut herself for several years and also made several suicide attempts, already at the age of 15. It's extremely sad. Therefore, it is important that the government acts quickly after the announcement so that the Prison Service gets started with pharmacological treatment of paedophiles. Pedophiles must be stopped before they destroy innocent children's lives. Madam President, I would like We've been in opposition for seven years now, and we've been getting through a lot of announcements. But I must say that this particular announcement is extremely important. It is perhaps the most important announcement during these seven years. As I said, I've seen how these kids are doing. It's terrible abuse they're being subjected to-- it's almost impossible to imagine how disgusting it is. That is why I am so delighted that the whole committee is behind the announcement, and I assume that the current government will get moving. I really believe that medication can prevent sexual crimes against children in the future. That's what the research shows. Of course, there is quite a long way to go before it becomes a reality, but now the ball is at least rolling. It feels very good. Madam President, I would like We will also vote for an announcement on measures to increase the number of transfers of sentenced foreign citizens to their home countries so that they can serve their prison sentences there. In 2019, more than 9 100 people started their prison sentence. Of these, 33 per cent were foreign citizens, or just over 3,000 persons. Of these, 40 per cent were from Europe, including the Nordic countries, and 45 per cent were from Asia and Africa. In 2020, only 79 people were transferred, of which 15 were transferred to the Nordic countries and 63 were transferred to the EU outside the Nordic countries. Only one was transferred to other countries in the world – one in over 1,300 people. It's actually really bad. It is no wonder that it is full of Swedish prisons when you work so badly to transfer foreign citizens to their home countries. If you put a little more effort into this, it would free up quite a few prison places at once. It is reasonable that it is the home countries that pay the prisons for their citizens, not Swedish taxpayers. A prison place costs an incredible amount of money. A few years ago it was estimated that it costs 1.2 million a year, but it is probably now much more. It will also be easier to re-integrate into society when these people are in their own countries. The Parliament has an announcement regarding transfers since before, but since there has been no increase in principle, a new announcement is needed so that the government gets moving. It is also a good thing that we are given an announcement on the evaluation and further development of the content of penalties. It is necessary to assess whether the penalties have any effect or not and whether they should be changed in any way. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be an announcement about criminalizing escapes, as Carina Ödbrink talked about. It's not very often they run away nowadays, but once they do, the ordinary person out there in the world actually thinks it's really weird that it's not a crime and that it can't be criminalized. I do not agree that it would be so very complicated and advanced. It's a pretty easy investigation if anyone escapes. You do that in half an hour, so it's not complicated. That's pretty much what I was gonna say. Finally, I would like to endorse reservation number 16.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-249	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on Prisons. Of course, I support all our reservations, but we have a reservation on prisons in other countries, reservation 24, to which I would like to give my assent. An effective chain of law requires not only additional resources for the police, prosecutors and courts, but also for the prison services. More places in institutions must be created, and it costs money, of course. In Sweden the Swedish democrats will have criminals in prison as long as they deserve in view of the crime they have committed. This will, of course, lead to more individuals becoming acquainted with the prison system and also serving longer prison sentences than today. Correctional services have been a neglected area for many years. I am pleased that more parties are now beginning to talk about the need to invest in the whole chain of justice. All parties are now investing more money in the police. Although the Swedish Democrats still stand out as the party that invests most with a fairly large margin, this shift in Swedish politics is welcome. This also applies to the criminal justice system and the rest of the legal chain. Step by step, parties subscribe to Swedish-democratic politics. Step by step, more and more people realise that it is not enough just to say it – it is also necessary to budget for it. Every step we take forward in this area is essential, because without a well-functioning chain of law, from the Police Authority to the Prison Service, the rule of law – the rule of law whose responsibility it is to uphold law and order – lapses. Madam President, I would like Today, as we have heard, we have an overcrowding in our institutions. The coating is up to and sometimes over 100%, which is unacceptable. We don't have seats for anyone who's going to be punished. The prison service itself warns against carrying out the necessary penalties because they do not receive enough money to ensure that there are enough places in prison. Overcrowding not only creates unreasonable working conditions for those working in the prison system, but also impairs the conditions that we are expected to give those in our prisons to be reintegrated into better citizens. The problem is two-edged. Rehabilitation is deteriorating for the inmates, and victims of crime are not to be redressed as those who are to be inmates do not sufficiently serve sentenced sentences. It is positive that the government is now listening to the Prison Service and providing them with additional resources, but that is not enough. The Swedish Democrats are by far the party that invests most in the prison services. In our budget proposal for 2021, we allocated SEK 2.2 billion more than the government. Madam President, I would like Several of our activities in this area are dealt with in a simplified way. For those who follow the debate on television, I can tell you that this means that the issues have been debated in the past and that there is therefore no in-depth examination of these motions in the report being debated today. For example, we have put forward demands for increased camera surveillance in the institutions and stricter rules for leave. In addition, we have proposed a simpler prison standard for the people to be expelled. Tax money should not be wasted in these cases. Although these proposals are not being dealt with in greater depth now, we maintain our previous view. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, a prison sentence is supposed to be a punishment. It is basically a question of justice in relation to the victim of the crime, of redress for the victim of an injury. For too long there has been unilateral talk of care rather than punishment, and for too long criminal policy has been characterised by swinging doors. Anyone sentenced to punishment should feel a marked difference from the life of freedom that otherwise applies. Prison time shall be characterised by discipline and strict rules of conduct. But of course it is also important that the prison services can offer training, care and treatments where necessary. The correctional services will make sure that the person who served his sentence comes out as a better person, and it will take the time it takes. On 1 May this year, the law was amended so that conditional release can be postponed if there are special reasons. In the past, special reasons were needed. It is our firm belief that two thirds of release need to be completely abolished. It is not reasonable for a person sentenced to ten years in prison, for example, to be in prison for less than seven years. Where is the victim perspective in this? Madam President, I would like For those who have served a prison sentence, the risk of relapse today is very high. Statistics show that the risk of relapse increases with the former crime load of the convicted persons. It is a pattern that can be observed over a longer period of time. In view of this, we believe that persons who have been convicted of very serious crime, particularly in the case of crimes against persons, should be provided with an electronic anklet when they are released. To serve a prison sentence is only part of the return to normal society. The post-prison period should also be linked to a certain degree of control in the light of the statistics on relapses. Madam President, I would like According to the National Crime Prevention Council's statistics, we collect approximately 3 000 foreign citizens annually in our prisons. That's about a third of everyone who goes in every year. From the Swedish side, we need to be better at ensuring that other countries take responsibility for their own citizens and enforce the penalties imposed in Sweden. There is a well-designed system in Europe for the recognition and enforcement of prison sentences. Foreign citizens who belong to another EU country and who commit crimes in Sweden must, according to these rules, serve the sentences in their own home countries. However, this is all too rarely the case in reality. In 2020, enforcement was transferred in only 79 cases. We must take this issue seriously and ensure that EU countries and other non-EU countries receive their citizens and ensure that they are allowed to serve the sentences in their own home countries. If, for various reasons, it is not possible to enforce a penalty in a particular country, for example for reasons relating to human rights, or because prisons are of too poor a standard, it is of course better to procure contracts individually with the country in question or with a neighbouring country, so that the person concerned may serve the sentence in that country. A further advantage of serving your sentence in the country of which you are a citizen, and to which you are still to be expelled, is that rehabilitation conditions are adapted to that country. It is therefore gratifying that the committee is today proposing a declaration to the government on the transfer of criminal liability. Similar announcements have been made in the past. We see it as important that the government prioritises this issue in the future.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-268	It's 2:00 and it's time for Question Time. I would like to welcome the ministers. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-269	Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis has hit hard at companies and jobs in Sweden in the past year. We can see that unemployment is now rising sharply. Many companies have received crisis support, but at the same time tens of thousands of entrepreneurs during the year have been waiting for weeks, often for months, to find out if they get help. Thousands are still waiting for information because the Minister for Enterprise and his support parties have not managed the emergency aid well enough. Crisis aid will now be extended for a number of months, which is a good thing. Taxi owners, restaurateurs, shop owners and others are still struggling with severe financial problems due to the pandemic. It is therefore important to learn from the mistakes that have taken place in recent years. In view of that, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs what he will do in concrete terms to ensure that affected entrepreneurs are paid out in the coming months and that he and the government do not repeat the mistakes they have made in the past year.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-271	Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis is not like any other crisis that we have experienced, in depth, width and length. I think Lars Helmered is well aware that we are still in the midst of the crisis. We will continue to have to work to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. So far, Mr President, over 95 billion have gone into direct payments to businesses to overwinter in this situation. We have done so because we believe it is important to stand together in a deep crisis. Unfortunately, this does not mean that we will not have seen and seen negative effects. But I would think that, when we have gone through the crisis, we will have managed it better in Sweden than many other countries have done. Nevertheless, we will, of course, have to draw conclusions about what has been done that could have been done better but also what has been good. Mr President, I would like to We will continue to work to ensure that Sweden's companies and employees can overwinter during the crisis. Of course, we will also learn lessons for the future.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-274	Mr President, I would like to Over the past year, many companies have been helped, but there are also thousands of entrepreneurs waiting for information. They have had to do it for months while really literally fighting for the survival of their companies. The risk is that jobs and businesses that we need when we get out of the crisis will be lost. It is important to learn from this when emergency aid is being extended for a number of months. You shouldn't have to wait again and too long. What does the Minister of Economic Affairs intend to do specifically to ensure that the money is paid out and mistakes are not made again?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-275	Mr President, I would like to We have proposed a large number of measures. We've done it in over a dozen amending budgets. We have provided resources to employ over 700 people to deal with these measures. It is good that we have been able to do so in this way, Mr President, because if the Moderates' proposal of last spring for payments of 100 billion a month had gone through, the money would have been long over, despite the fact that the crisis is not. So it is good to do this effectively rather than just let the money wash out.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-277	Mr President, I would like to In the debate on violence against women there is a huge fear of touching the question of the imported part of the problem. In the period 2002 – 2006, for example, the excess risk of rape was over 700 per cent for people from Africa or Latin America. Several other studies have shown a similar trend. Märta Stenevi recently stated in the newspaper Expressen that this is really due to mental illness, substance abuse problems and socio-economic factors, but neither Brå nor any Swedish criminologist has I been able to demonstrate such a connection when it comes to sexual crimes. I would therefore like to ask Märta Stenevi whether she can point to any scientific study confirming what she says, that is, the enormous excess risk of sexual crimes among certain immigrant groups is due to abuse or socio-economic factors.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-279	Mr President, I would like to The question put by Expressen concerned men's violence against women and deadly violence. There we see a clear link with mental illness and addiction. That is also the question I answered. However, we know that there is an over-representation of foreign-born men. Above all, it is important to pay attention to this in order to be able to capture risk factors and thereby also to break the deadly violence and violence of men, which mainly affects women. To know where to put the right effort, we need to understand who commits sexual crimes and not least the deadly violence in the home that affects a large number of women in Sweden every year and has done so for a long time. Thankfully, the deadly violence in Sweden is decreasing, but we still have a lot to do. Because as long as any woman gets killed by her loved one, we're not done.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-282	Mr President, I would like to Brå wrote a report in 2019 on violence in close relationships. On page 46, it says that some foreign-born victims do not perceive relationship violence as criminal. The same may apply to acts considered child abuse in Sweden. It is not described as a question of a mere lack of knowledge, but that it is a question of a norm system. Does the Government think that Brå is onto something when you talk about imported norm systems as a problem?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-284	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely gratifying that, for the first time in this House, a Swedish democratic Member is talking about destructive man standards. It is an extremely important problem that we should take seriously and which we definitely need to tackle. For example, 40 percent of high school students surveyed have experienced violence in a close relationship. I think we agree that we need to reach different men with different kinds of measures. However, it is gratifying that Ludvig Aspling now accepts for the first time that we need to break destructive male standards.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-286	Mr President, I would like to Nearly 10 000 women in Sweden live with protected identity. In the first four months of the year, 150 women have been granted protected censuses only this year. 9 700 children live with personal protection. In addition to moving and tearing up contacts with friends, family and networks, hidden women must pay for alarms, protection and any camera surveillance. Besides, they'll have to look for a new apartment if they have to move again. Finally, there are women who have been given protection decisions for the rest of their lives without the perpetrator even receiving a prison sentence. This is hard to take in. So the perpetrator has not at all got his reality and everyday life circumscribed.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-288	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important issue that the honourable Member highlights. Hidden women get so hard to cope with everyday life is a system problem that we have seen for a long time. This is particularly true of the children of the families affected. When personal data is disclosed, families are forced to move again. Children are forced to live under names that they were not born to and find new friends from time to time. We have given assignments to strengthen, above all, the work of informing all professionals about these families, so that the personal data will not be disclosed. I would also like to point out the possibility of placing a anklet in the event of an extended ban on contact. In this way, we can limit the geographical area of the perpetrators so that we can keep the perpetrators away from the families rather than the other way around. But there is much more that we need to turn around and do to resolve the situation of these women and children.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-290	Mr President, I would like to The fact that there are mistakes in dealing with women with protected identity is one thing, and I assume that the Gender Equality Agency is working on its mission. But I think it's such a weird thing that this can happen-- the woman's been made a decision about protected identity all her life, but the perpetrator goes free. I very much hope that the mission to the Equality Authority is not just to ensure that women have a decent time that is hidden but that they can return to a normal life.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-291	Mr President, I would like to In cases where the perpetrators are not convicted of the crimes, the situation is, of course, even more difficult to deal with. There are also investigations that have looked at the possibility of moving the perpetrator. What we need to deal with in those situations is the risk that, paradoxically, arises for the woman who does not live hidden but lives at a known address. What we are also taking forward now is the possibility of further restricting the right of the perpetrator to the common home. Bit by bit, we're trying to get to this problem. It is tricky but extremely important to get things right.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-293	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. Last week I met some of my neighbors in Revingeby, where I live. It's a few kilometers from the regiment P 7. They have lived there for a very long time and experience a change in contact between the villagers and the Swedish Armed Forces. They feel that it has become a little more difficult to live near the training field Revingehed. This applies, among other things, to traders on the moor, to fishermen by the lake and of course to those who want to build new houses inside the village on the empty plots that exist. One experiences a slightly larger squareness on the part of the Swedish Armed Forces. You feel that you have had a little less interaction and contact with the authority about the events around the exercise field. I wonder how the Minister for Defence views these important issues of contact between civilian villagers and the Armed Forces.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. This is both for the Swedish Armed Forces and for me very important and interesting perspectives. In all social activities we conduct, questions about the balance of interests often arise. Now that we are building the new Swedish Armed Forces, the training activities and the use of our resources and training areas are increasing. I know from before that there has been a harmonious relationship right down at Revingehed. I have visited the area several times myself, so I know well what it looks like. I suppose this is the kind of signal I simply have to take with me in continued dialogue. I conduct regular dialogues with the Swedish Armed Forces' management on, among other things, this type of problem: condition problems, effects of exercises, effects of building wind power and so on. I thank you for the question and will take this perspective with me in future dialogue.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-299	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I feel as a resident in Revingeby that there is a great pride in living so close to the regiment and so close to the training field. As a resident, you almost feel yourself as part of the defence of Sweden. Therefore, I also get a little sad and worried when you start to hear that those who are so very proud at the same time feel that contact with the authority is getting a little worse. I think that's what's happening to the people.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-300	Mr President, I would like to I take note of what Hanna Gunnarsson says. I will carry it on in the upcoming dialogues that I have. Otherwise, I have no further comments.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-301	Mr President, I would like to On Thursday 6 May, the government decided on new hunting times. There are some things that can be discussed in that decision. An issue that for very many people may be perceived as small has nevertheless taken a huge place in the media, namely the decision to change hunting times on the ripa. In Norrbotten and Västerbotten the hunting time is shortened by one month above the patchland limit. In Jämtland and Dalarna it is shortened by half a month. In some other counties the hunt is completely removed. This means that the popular winter hunt disappears in the areas where hunting is shortened. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, there are no biological reasons for shortening hunting time. This view is based on leading and concerted research. In view of this, I put a written question to the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Nilsson, about the concrete reasons behind the decision. I received an answer to my question yesterday, but the text is actually chemically pure from answers, Mr President. Therefore, I would like to give the Minister for Rural Development another chance: what concrete reasons lie behind the decision to shorten the winter hunt on the ripa?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-303	Mr President, I would like to I thank Kjell-Arne Ottosson for the question. The decision on hunting times is a very big decision. It includes very many different species and hunting times that are handled in a single grip. It is the first time in 20 years that one takes a concerted approach and analyses the whole in the way that one has now done. The most important thing has been to ensure that we deal with different interests in a balanced whole. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson is quite right that the decision specifically concerning ripa has attracted a lot of attention and a lot of criticism, especially from some interest groups and some parts of the country. I can only say that what has been tried to do is to take a balanced decision taking into account both the interest in hunting and the biological conditions of ripors.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-305	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Jennie Nilsson for her reply, even though this time I did not get an answer to the specific reasons behind it. I have noticed that people often rely on their expert authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, on other issues, not least the issue of the wolf that is so important to Värmland. However, it is not based on its expert authority, but on what the expert authority says. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government whether the Government is prepared to make a poodle and say: This was wrong– we are doing it again and doing it right.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-307	Mr President, I would like to I note that this decision is comprehensive and has been preceded by solid work and dialogue. It's been referred twice. I think Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson agrees that you also look at what referrals say. There have been many comments here. The interest in hunting has generally been well weighed. But, of course, I hope for a continued good dialogue. I am, of course, listening to the criticism and comments that are now being made. We will have to come back to the question of whether there is a reason for this.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-308	Mr President, I would like to My uncle shouldn't be my father-in-law too. It's a pretty simple rule. But cousin marriage exists, and they enable and maintain the power and control of the genealogical collective over the individual. Children are promised away early and forced into arranged marriages. Norway has introduced a ban on cousin marriages, and in several other countries large and important information campaigns are being conducted on the medical risks when two cousins have children with each other. The Liberal Party Executive wants an investigation into banning cousin marriage. I think it's right and reasonable. A ban on cousin marriage is one of a great many measures that are still needed in the work against honour-related violence and oppression. In addition, authorities must also be given the task of carrying out an awareness-raising campaign on the risks of entering into a cousin's marriage.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-311	Mr President, I would like to The issues raised by the honourable Member in relation to honour-related violence and repression and forced marriages are incredibly important. The fact that many young women and girls in Sweden today are forced into marriage both in other countries and not least here at home is unacceptable and something that we have to tackle with all the tools of society. You should marry on your own free will and because you choose to do so and not for any other reason. This applies regardless of whether the person you are forced to marry is a relative or not. With regard specifically to banning cousin marriages, whether they are voluntary or enforced, this is an issue on which I may come back and on which I have not yet taken a position. I would like to stress that no matter who you are expected to marry, marriage should only be made by voluntary and never by coercion.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-314	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that the Minister for Gender Equality still does not put down his foot and say no. We don't really know what it looks like in Sweden. In other countries that have had awareness campaigns and have studied the groups, for example in Denmark, the number of cousin marriages in some groups has decreased while in the UK they have almost increased. What we know in Sweden is that it is 0.1 per mil of marriages that are concluded by people with Swedish background who are cousin marriages. We know that 30 percent of the marriages in Syria, for example, are cousin marriages. But we have no idea what it's like in Sweden, and it may be worth finding out.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-316	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise once again that it is extremely central in this that we never ever waver on the issue of honour-related violence and repression and how we must act against forced marriages. This is true regardless of who you are forced into marriage with. With regard specifically to the issue of cousin marriages, voluntary or non-voluntary marriages, I would ask you to come back.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-319	Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has clearly demonstrated the importance of popular movements in a crisis. Trade unions, pensioners' organisations, the disability movement and patient associations have all been a strong voice for those who have been affected but also a constructive partner in crisis management. I know that civilian emergency preparedness is the responsibility of the Home Secretary. But the next crisis may well have military signs or be in the grey zone. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence how the government can further strengthen the role of non-military peoples' movements in future crises, whether they are military or not.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. There is a civilian preparedness dimension that supports military defence. Here it is a question of the health care organisation and infrastructure being able to function and that all kinds of organisations that support society in a rescue situation can function. Today there is a development effort in which civil defence is increasingly practicing with military defence. We have seen in connection with the forest fires, for example, how the Swedish Armed Forces through the Home Guard, civil protection and various popular movements and civil organisations have been able to cooperate. It is clear that it is experience that contributes to a higher overall civil and military capacity. Civil defence and military defence are interrelated.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. Peoples' movements are people's movements. They're not something the state should rule. But if we draw inspiration from the Swedish model for the labour market, we can see that there are ways to organise the division of responsibilities between public and member-owned non-profit organisations. It is always the members of the peoples' movements who suffer a crisis. The question is: How can one further establish a Swedish model also within crisis preparedness?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-327	Mr President, I would like to The new total defence will emerge gradually. What has become very clear in connection with both forest fires and pandemics is how the combined resources in practical practice together lead to a higher capability both civilian and military. It is pointed out there that the peoples' movements through voluntary involvement are taking on an increasing role. I think that reality is a good argument for why you should get involved in this type of peoples' movements.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-329	Mr President, I would like to There are many of us who love the forest for outdoor activities, berry picking and exercise. It is important to us in so many different ways. But it is not only for us but also for everyone who lives in the forest and by the forest. If we use the forest wisely, it binds lots of coal and can help us reach the climate targets. Unfortunately, the development of the climate target Living forests is negative, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's latest report from this year. The last prime forests and natural forests need to be protected, and the forest managed needs to be managed in a sustainable way. It is also important for the reindeer industry. My question to Minister Jennie Nilsson is what she thinks needs to happen in order for those who live from the reindeer industry to feel confident that they can continue to develop their industry in a sustainable and long-term way. It is about vigorously halting climate change and there should be land for reindeer to live on.
i-Aef7sk12KRefHQx8JWBoyr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for the question! The forest is something that holds a lot of values, just as Camilla Hansén says. We all love it, but sometimes in different ways. It is probably one of the challenges of the forest debate which is too polarised from and to. However, we are now trying to take a concerted approach to the forest issues. We are trying to ensure that we get a good balance between all the different values that need to be addressed within the framework of forest policy. It is, of course, about protecting valuable nature and having functioning ecosystems and ecosystem balance. But it's also about us using the forest. We can thus take advantage of the value that exists and process goods that mean that we can replace, for example, fossil-based goods. There are very many different issues that need to be accommodated. We are currently taking a large, concerted approach to these issues. I think it's very important and right.
i-BYvRosMuxVyzoScfLY2CFz	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. A more varied forestry that contributes to climate change and protects biodiversity needs to be profitable for the forester while it needs to work for outdoor life, and we have the right of alleman to thank for so much. It needs to work for reindeer nutrition and natural tourism, which also brings added value. How can forestry become a multi-use that strengthens the reindeer industry? My previous question remains: does forestry safeguard the right of access, give it the raw materials we need and stop climate change?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-340	Mr President, I would like to I think it is crucial that we have a constructive debate on how we develop all the values and, of course, how we use our forests. For me, it is obvious that we should use it, and we should also use it sustainably. There is potential here to develop farming methods. It is one of those parts that I would have liked the debate to have been much more about. It is not a debate about whether a tree is most valuable if it says it or if it does not say it. We need to look at the entire value chain and all the interests that exist.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-342	Mr President, I would like to A person who has been subjected to serious women's defamation or sexual crime has the right to a lawyer. The Government changed the rules in 2018, which meant that the plaintiff in the Court of Appeal may not be automatically retained. It has emerged from various sources that many have been denied counsel in the court proceedings. A major disadvantage is the need to obtain information from the Court of Appeal. For example, the Court of Appeal may release the accused from custody. When there is no plaintiff, no one is responsible for that information. There is a great risk that the victim will be exposed to some violent crime when the perpetrator suddenly stands behind the door. We Moderates have been exercising about an evaluation. The government parties reserved themselves last week on the grounds that they assume that the government is closely following the issue and, if necessary, taking action as necessary. Apparently, the government has missed all the warning bells.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-347	Mr President, I would like to I think I'd like to say that we do. But in the usual order, the motions are handled by the Riksdag, and the government is working on this issue and on many other issues in the same area. We hope to be able to come back in a very short time with the promised action programme against men's violence against women. In this we take a broad approach and look at what measures need to be taken to curb men's violence against women. This involves both prevention, prevention and criminal justice. This is one of the issues that I am sure we will look at and evaluate, although it is primarily under the portfolios of other ministers than mine.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-350	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. That sounds promising. But can Minister Stenevi promise – reasonably in any case – that women who have been subjected to serious crime will have plaintiffs with them in the court of appeal process, which they are not allowed to do now? This has been raised by both prosecutors, plaintiffs and victims themselves for quite some time. Victims stand there more or less alone and do not get the information they need.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-352	Mr President, I would like to I very much appreciate the commitment to this issue. It is an extremely important issue to have the help and support required in these difficult situations. However, I cannot promise this because this is in other departments than mine. I must therefore ask to come back with details on this issue, because I do not have knowledge of it today. However, this is an important issue and we will soon be reporting back on the major action programme. This is a dimension we've been looking at.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-354	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Due to the pandemic, the Swedish Armed Forces have not been able to train and train to the extent that was planned. That is why, as early as last year, appropriations were over which they had not been used in the current year, and it will reasonably be the same this year. My question is: how will the Minister of Defence work to ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces' next budgetary periods for the next financial year can receive increased funding to resume and rebuild the exercise activities that could not be carried out? In this important stage of construction, the Swedish Armed Forces must not lose momentum in the construction of the Swedish defence system that we have all voted in favour of in this House.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-357	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I have already had discussions with the Swedish Armed Forces about just how the exercise activities have been during the pandemic that has hit us. When the pandemic fades out, exercise activities should also fade up. Some major exercises have unfortunately had to be cancelled, but I am at least happy that the South Front with 3,500 participants could be carried out. It was carried out in a brigade format, but the division level was also tested in this context. It is an important signal for security policy that we are able to carry out such a great exercise with the pandemic and with Corona considerations. It is very important both to the Swedish people and to the outside world. Of course, we have the ambition to tone up the business considerably when the pandemic is over.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. We in the Swedish Democrats proposed a three-year budget for the Swedish Armed Forces, simply to be able to move funds between the years in such a situation, for example. We have checked with Parliament's investigation service, and this is not in breach of the fiscal framework. Doesn't the government and the Secretary of Defense think it would be a good order to do that in the future? There may be more opportunities, especially now in the construction phase, where the Swedish Armed Forces must be able to dispose of the funds allocated to them.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-362	Mr President, I would like to I am not going into the budgetary aspects of the discussion. However, I can very clearly tell you that when the pandemic fades out, the exercise activity will fade up. This applies both to the national and to the international. I can tell the House that we are now planning to take part in a major exercise in Rovajärvi, Finland, with 300 Swedish soldiers in the not too distant future.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-364	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Jennie Nilsson. 50 years ago, Mr President, Sweden had around 3 million hectares of farmland. At the moment, we have lost half a million of these hectares. Every six hectares of land has been decommissioned for 50 years. This has its causes, and some of them are quite positive, such as an increased rationalisation of agriculture. Others are less positive. It is about building on arable land, failing profitability and sometimes having been required to plant again. Now I have noticed that one of the proposals that the Forest investigation seems to be leaning on is about breaking up these old spruce fields and converting them back into agricultural land. But it's pretty thin with suggestions on how to get this done. This is negative both because we are taking what could have been productive land out of use and because it is an environmental problem because valuable habitats have disappeared for a wide range of endangered species.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-370	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Magnus Ek! Ensuring that we have good food production and good conditions for it is of course important. This has not least been demonstrated by the pandemic, linked to the fact that awareness of the importance of food has become clearer and greater, I would say, in both politicians and the general public. We adopted a food strategy last parliamentary term. It was historical in that we have never had one before. It is clear that we should ensure that we work primarily with profitability issues but also with skills provision, simplification and other conditions that enable you to be both able and want to be a farmer. In addition to this, we are currently negotiating CAP, that is, the common agricultural policy within the framework of the European Union. Some of these questions, particularly related to the question that Magnus Ek is raising now, are difficult and complex from a Swedish perspective. We need a lot of surveillance on them. The three-party talks are going on right now.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-373	Mr President, I would like to It is really gratifying that Sweden has a food strategy. What we often hear is something I am sure the Government has also experienced: questioning whether it actually permeates other policies. Is the food strategy actually something we want to achieve? Will it permeate, for example, the way in which we in politics view building on arable land? Will we actually focus on increasing productivity in the next CAP period? And not least: Will we see stronger conditions for the next generation that will, or at least will, take over and use further?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-375	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very important to be clear that a strategy is of course long-term. You don't turn things around overnight. On the other hand, you need to be consistent and persevere in what you do. I note that we are pleased to see a trend break when it comes to much of what we produce in Sweden. It has both increased profitability, increased exports and increased productivity, such as increased milk weighing for the first time in a very long time in the latest forecasts. But we need to hold on and be constructive on this road.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-378	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. At the end of August 2020, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management (HAV) presented its government mission Evaluation of systems of individual fishing opportunities(2020). The Authority proposed the introduction of a system of transferable fishing rights in demersal fisheries, i.e. fishing at the bottom of the sea. HaV's proposal is supported by more than 90% of Swedish demersal fisheries. When will the government assign a task to the HaV to produce a detailed proposal for such a scheme as the Authority has already recommended and which the fishing industry wants to see?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-380	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Roland Utbolt! The fisheries issue is big and important, and fisheries is a sector that has been severely affected both by the environmental situation in the seas and by the covid situation and restrictions. There is great reason to take a concerted approach to fisheries issues. With regard to precisely the inquiry into individual fishing rights for demersal fisheries referred to by the author of the question, this is an issue which is being prepared in the Government Office. I would like to return to it.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-382	Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, as far as fisheries are concerned, we now see a number of wind farms that want to build marine wind farms more or less everywhere in the sea. In the Kattegat, for example, it seems that all areas are covered. How and where should marine food production in the form of fishing, which is a basic industry, be able to take place in the future?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-383	Mr President, I would like to Now wind turbines are not in my portfolio, but of course we need to ensure that everything we do and all policies are connected. I believe in itself that other issues are more important and higher priorities, not least that we ensure that we have a good policy that secures the long-term stocks and where we develop the industry. Diversification that allows you to gain profitability in your industry is more important.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-385	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Baylan. Since the start of the pandemic, very many companies have been seriously affected by both declining revenues and significantly reduced demand. It's well known. However, thanks to all the extensive support measures of hundreds of billions of dollars that the government has delivered, a great deal has been saved. We have been able to have a decent pace in the economy in Sweden anyway, compared to the outside world. But as I said, it's a lot of money. I was very concerned when I listened to the Ekott a few weeks ago and it was reported that about a hundred criminal investigations were now started because of suspicions of cheating with financial support. In addition, several charges have been brought.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz, for a very important question! When using such large resources – we are talking about hundreds of billions – to mitigate the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country, it is important to also ensure that, as far as possible, both control and follow-up are ensured. That, too, is exactly what we have done. In this House, Mr President, we have received criticism from parts of the opposition because it has sometimes taken time. Time has taken just when you haven't had complete actions. It is then up to the authorities that will handle this large part of taxpayers' money to make sure to do so properly, and then it sometimes takes a long time if the document is not complete or if the authority notices that what has been stated to that authority does not correspond with what has been stated to, for example, the Tax Authority. The same report shows that, thanks to the regulations, we have still been able to keep away the worst of organised crime, at least what we can see so far. We will continue to support and monitor to ensure that cheating is as minimal as possible.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-393	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. There are still those who argue that we should pay out aid much more quickly and carry out ex-post checks instead. Therefore, I think it is important to get answers from the Government about how the Government views Stefan Strömberg's investigation into the risks of so-called corona crime in all the forms of support that we have received in place. He believes that there is an obvious risk that we would never get the money back if we did not check in advance.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-395	Mr President, I would like to I think he's absolutely right. It was also against this background that we made changes in the regulatory framework. In the beginning, it was very important to quickly get measures in place so that we did not unnecessarily lose both healthy businesses and jobs. As a result, we have tightened the regulations precisely to increase controls. Against this background, Mr President, I think it would be a mistake if a majority in Parliament decided that it should first pay out the money automatically after four weeks and then try to get it back from organised crime. I don't think we'd see a glimpse of that money.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-397	Mr President, I would like to House prices in Sweden are running. Many people want to move to a villa in the footsteps of the pandemic. However, the government is not doing anything to increase the availability of buildable land, thereby maintaining the fictitious shortage. For those who are lucky enough to get a piece of land, the next problem often arises, namely that it takes an average of one year to get a survey. Today, municipalities have a legal right to apply to form their own surveying authorities in order to speed up the process. Although it takes an average of one year to get help from the state surveying authority, the government almost always says no to municipalities that want to form their own.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-401	Mr President, I would like to The issue of Lantmäteriet and Lantmäteriet's processing times is an important issue which involves many people and which I have debated a lot in this House. It is extremely important that Lantmäteriet continues to work with its processing times. There are now positive developments in five out of seven areas, and we see how we are dealing with long-standing cases. It is to be hoped that this will soon be even quicker in its proceedings. When it comes to municipal applications, there is no consistent line of saying that we say no to them. However, there are requirements, because it is very important that this handling is legally secure for those who need help from the surveyors, on a certain basic staffing and a certain size of the municipal surveying authority. When a municipality is not judged to meet those requirements, it has been refused. We had a recent case, to which I am guessing the honourable Member refers.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-403	Mr President, I would like to No, I am referring to the report that Statskontoret produced in 2017, which explicitly states that it is assumed that this is due to the Government's view that the need today is met by the surveying authorities that exist. Then the question is: Is the government satisfied that it takes a year to get a surveying ceremony today? Or why else do you say no?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-404	Mr President, I would like to Then I can reassure the honourable Member that the government is not satisfied with the long processing times, but with the positive development that is taking place at Lantmäteriet, where it has gradually worked to shorten the processing times. I can also reassure the honourable Member that there is no consistent line whatsoever where we would say no for the sake of the matter. On the other hand, there is a legal requirement that you have sufficient competence in the municipal surveying authority, and when those requirements are not met we have rejected these applications. It's not harder than that.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-406	Mr President, I would like to On 1 July next year new regulations for petrol stations will come into force, which means that the gas stations' pipelines will have to be secured against rust and moisture. These rules force the country's gas station owners to make very expensive investments, while many gas station owners today describe fuel sales as a public service that can hardly be made money. According to Svensk Gasinhandel the result is that up to 500 petrol stations are closed down, mainly in Sweden's rural areas where the gas station often also serves as a grocery store, post office delivery and pharmacy representative. My question to Rural Minister Jennie Nilsson is therefore: does the government intend to take steps to ensure that the new rules do not force existing petrol stations to close down, with the negative consequences that this would have for people and businesses in Sweden's rural areas?
i-AhnAfnsYtVcRBGASSegjC4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Eric Palmqvist! I share the view that it is very important to have access to all kinds of services in rural areas, including commercial services. That is why the government has also invested in a country merchant's subsidy, which has meant that we have actually reversed the trend of the country merchants closing down to the extent they did in the past. We are even seeing a positive increase where some new ones have been established. It is important, not least because, as the honourable Member says, they are often the hub of other services such as postal services, pharmacies, system companies and so on. The question that I think is specifically the basis of the question is well about the regulations that MSB produced several years ago on flammable waste and explosives. I do not think anyone has any other opinion than that it is important that this is safe. What I can say here is that it is possible to apply for investment aid to make these investments. There is support.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-410	Mr President, I would like to We know that these are rules that are already in place and that have been introduced for greater security. It is, of course, positive to safeguard security. However, safety must be balanced against the negative consequences of decision-making. If the government believes that the petrol stations in the countryside actually play an important role and if the new rules, if they are not changed, will have these negative effects...
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-412	Yes, thank you! There was no question.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-413	Mr President, I would like to I have not understood that there has been any political disagreement since before linked to whether MSB's regulations are correct and reasonable. I do not think the Swedish Democrats think so either. On the other hand, it is of course important to ensure that companies that need to make these investments have the tools to apply for investment aid. It is a support that is in place; one may have to look at the scope. However, the question is not mine, I would say, but it is on Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. Thank you. I'm trying to be a little stricter now, because I see that times are pulling away a little bit. It was not directed at this particular Member. )
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-417	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has an unacceptable and frustrating low house building. Under 10,000 small houses are expected to be built this year. That's the lowest level in 100 years. The level in Sweden has long been about half the European level. This is remarkable given that according to several studies, 70% of Swedes want to live in small houses. In fact, a larger proportion of the population than in Sweden lives in small houses in almost all other EU countries, which is very strange because Sweden belongs to the countries with the most land per inhabitant. One reason why small-scale building is so low is the government's one-sided focus on rentals, which should call for measures from the same government to increase future small-scale building. We Christian Democrats have put forward proposals in various ways to increase the construction of small houses, proposals that the government is happy to copy and make use of.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-422	Mr President, I would like to We do not currently see any need to stimulate the construction of small houses with state funds. On the other hand, we are investigating how we can make it easier for first-time buyers who want to enter the property, and this could also benefit the building of small houses. How we plan cities and how land is assigned to different types of construction is primarily a municipal issue. We previously heard a question to the Minister for Rural Development about the proportion of agricultural land. In some parts of Sweden it is a very important issue to preserve the arable land. It is not always appropriate to plan for small houses in the municipalities, but there may be a reason to find more land-efficient buildings. But this is a municipal issue in the first place. In terms of incentives for the construction itself, I do not currently see any need to involve state subsidies for the construction of small-scale houses. However, we are looking at threshold effects for first-time buyers.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-425	Mr President, I would like to We can see that the municipalities are not able to plan enough small houses because the construction of small houses is less than 10 000. Then we must find ways to stimulate the municipalities to plan the construction of small houses. For example, we Christian Democrats have proposed that the County Administrative Board should be able to go in and talk about which areas could be built up as a help for the municipalities. We have also proposed a planning bonus to the municipalities. Why does the Minister not think this is a good idea?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-428	Mr President, I would like to It is a question of my primarily having faith in the council of municipalities over their land. I think it is important that decisions are very close to the citizens, and the municipal plan monopoly in Sweden is an important principle that I think we should protect. Small house building is on a relatively stable level. However, one sees a corona effect on the construction. Investment aid has been held back, but that is a bit of a different matter.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-431	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Jennie Nilsson. There are currently negotiations in the EU on the future common agricultural policy. The aim is to reach a broad agreement to shape the reformed agricultural policy for the period 2023 – 2027. My question to the Government is about the importance of agriculture in the EU contributing to climate change. I wonder what opportunities the Government sees in the negotiations to increase the climate and environmental benefits of the future common agricultural policy.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-434	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, an important and urgent issue which takes up quite a lot of time at the moment. After all, we have been negotiating the common agricultural policy for a very long time. It's very late. One of the major priorities right now, if you want to be tight, is that it will be negotiated in the spring. Right now, trilogues are in progress. The Swedish priorities have long been set, and climate and the environment are one of our greatest priorities. We want to see an agricultural policy that helps us to change and has good incentives for conversion. It is therefore important to earmark percentages but, above all, to design aid which involves using aid where it is most beneficial to climate change. It is one of the things that we will be watching in the trilogues that are now going on. It is planned for Council meetings and negotiations next week.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-438	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, extremely good that Sweden has such an active and powerful role in this important issue for the European Union. My follow-up question to the Government is what are the main obstacles to getting through the three priorities we have, especially those relating to climate and environmental benefits.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-440	Mr President, I would like to We were quite successful in what became the Council's conclusion on all our priorities. Our ambition is to be a constructive partner in getting good solutions that provide real climate and environmental benefits also in the compromise that is to be reached between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-443	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Jennie Nilsson. Horses get hurt under the Consumer Sales Law. It is because it is designed to strengthen the role of the consumer in the case of goods. Worse the law works for live animals because the law here becomes process-driven. While the process is ongoing – and it often takes over a year – the horse does not receive adequate veterinary care, training, feed or outdoor stay. One can rightly say that the horse is too often misbehaved, and it is mismanagement that can cost the horse its life or require long rehabilitation. In a previous debate with the Government, she gave the answer that Sweden has a high level of animal protection and that protection includes horses during the process. I would like to ask the Government what basis she had for it and whether she knows of any case where this has happened.
i-7CGMBvwn7ZLqXpXfJLJtdw	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Westergren, for the question! Yes, Sweden has strong animal welfare legislation, probably one of the strongest, and it applies in all situations. That is at least the picture I have and the information I have on this issue. Unfortunately, that does not mean that animals never get hurt, either in this process or anyone else. Sometimes it is people who should not have animals that own them or have access to them, and it is always reprehensible. In addition to strong animal welfare legislation, we therefore need effective control tools but also sanctions. The latter are parts that we are looking at right now. In the section dealing with sanctions, i.e. penalties when you break the law, we are on our way with proposals to Parliament shortly.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-450	Mr President, I would like to After our debate that I and the Government had in the Chamber, I called around at the County Administrative Board to ask what the situation was, if anyone at the County Administrative Board knew of any case where animal welfare has helped horses that get badly during the process. Of the people I talked to, no one knew of any case where animal welfare came in. I would like to make a contribution to the Government to the forthcoming work on the fact that it looks bad.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-452	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I'll take the delivery with me. However, this does not mean that the law does not apply. On the other hand, there can certainly be things to do with enforcement, control, follow-up and sanctions. I'll bring the delivery.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-454	Mr President, I would like to During the current government, Sweden has received large volumes of migrants. The general and acute homelessness are now widespread. Here are a lot of migrants who have come to Sweden, according to the National Board of Health and Welfare's report. How did the government think when it opened for, and continues to be open to, a comprehensive migration to Sweden? This is happening at the same time as it is quite clear that there is a large housing shortage in Sweden.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-457	Mr President, I would like to It is true that there is a serious housing shortage. Above all, the housing shortage is serious for families with children who in some municipalities are passed around in youth hostels week by week instead of getting the permanent housing that many of us think they are entitled to. It is now a lower immigration to Sweden than it is for a very long time, but it is not the solution to the housing shortage, but it is about the need to build more housing. As the honourable Member is probably aware, it was a period a few decades ago, not least during the last alliance government, when there were unbelievably few homes built. Now we are building for more than the current population growth. In this way, I hope that we will soon catch up with housing construction in relation to population growth.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-460	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer to the Government. However, we see the problem of the government continuing to send migrants who today come to Sweden directly into acute housing shortages. It does not solve the situation for those who come to Sweden, and it does not solve the situation for those who are in Sweden today or for all the Swedes who are in the housing queue. The alternative for municipalities has been to give priority to migrants in the housing queue and thus have a number of other negative effects. I don't feel I got an answer to my question. How do you solve the acute housing shortage now?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-463	Mr President, I would like to Among other things, more housing needs to be built, and this is done not least by means of the investment aid introduced by the government. It has greatly contributed to the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents. But then I am pleased to hear a Swedish democratic Member concerned about the structural homelessness of the children for whom it has been announced that they want to withdraw the housing allowance. Housing allowance is an important part of being able to ask for a dwelling in the existing housing market. I hope that you will withdraw the bad proposal and thus make it easier for structurally homeless families with children to take their place in the housing market.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-466	Mr President, I would like to After Christmas, the government quickly and funnyly announced at a press conference that Bromma airport will be closed prematurely. The Green Party and the Social Democrats presented the news together. The minister of the Green Party announced that Bromma airport will be closed, and the Social Democratic Government then announced that it will investigate how this is to be done. The Committee on Transport is now preparing a committee initiative to prevent this. We think an early closure of Bromma airport would be bad. However, we encounter a problem, namely that we regularly refer to a secret Swedavia report. An impact assessment has been carried out, including an assessment of the costs of Bromma airport. However, we must not take part in this secret report, which makes it difficult for us to make a good and democratic decision, which we are used to in Parliament. I would therefore like to ask Ibrahim Baylan if he would consider releasing the secret Swedavia report – for the sake of democracy.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-470	Mr President, I would like to I understand, of course, that opposition wants to dramatize things. This decision is neither hasty nor funny. The background is that when we entered the crisis there was a major crisis for both aviation and aviation infrastructure. When we received a request from Swedavia for capital injections we naturally asked Swedavia to turn over all the stones and see what needs to be done to get something long-term sustainable. This is the report we are talking about. The report is in those parts that are not business secrets public. In fact, Swedavia has also been to the Riksdag and presented her conclusions. Mr President, I would like to I understand, of course, that opposition wants to criticise and dramatise, but I do not think that one should exaggerate. Swedavia has presented the report, and I myself have also answered questions on several occasions. On the other hand, when it comes to business secrets, that is the case.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-473	Mr President, I would like to Today, before lunch, a unanimous Committee on Economic Affairs decided to support a committee initiative on short-term support measures, including shorter processing times. The reason why the initiative needed to be awakened is that the government has repeatedly failed to ensure that the support measures that have actually been decided on also reach out to those entrepreneurs who desperately need it. Both I and the Minister for Enterprise have learned horror stories about how small companies have been forced to spend money on behalf of the government for up to six months. It took quite a while, but in the end we managed to get the representatives of the government parties on the committee on the train, and now there is a united parliament behind the initiative. When will the government take the measures now concerned and ensure that the committee's wishes are met?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-476	Mr President, I would like to Since the crisis began, we have implemented a large number of measures in a way that no government has done and I hope will never have to do either. The cause has certainly not been pleasant, namely a pandemic that has hit entrepreneurship and employment in our country in the breadth, depth and length of life that we have never seen since the Second World War. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we are keen to get the support for those companies that really need it and should have it. It is against this background that we have also had control activities. The time when aid is delayed has been that the documents have not been complete. Now we will see what the Riksdag decides, and of course we will deal with the matter with all the seriosity it demands. But I am very pleased that the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates are now backing away from the idea that the money should be paid out automatically to companies and then recovered afterwards if it has turned out to be a case of criminals or scammers. It was very wise for you to withdraw from the proposal.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-480	Mr President, I would like to Men's violence against women is a social and gender equality problem with fate and stories that touch and upset. However, the last few months show that unfortunately we have not been able to curb the problem. The Government of Stenevi and the Government have recently presented a number of legislative measures. It is a step in the right direction, albeit late and far from complete, above all ensuring that the government has been in power since 2014. Recently, I visited a women's shelter to talk to women living in oppression or under threat today. They identify major shortcomings, such as the culture of honour, help for self-help or the unreasonable rights of suspected and convicted perpetrators of violence. The Government of Stenevi has made it clear that she wants to focus on prevention and efforts in front of penalties. But after talking with these women, I am even more convinced that we must work with both. Will the Government and the Government present a comprehensive package of legislative changes and sharpenings that both prevent violence in close relationships and clearly mark against the perpetrator's crimes and also take note of these women's and victims' remarks and appeals for justice?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-485	Mr President, I would like to The answer to that question is yes. What is not true, however, is that I would have said that we should not be working on the criminal law end. On the other hand, I believe that we must also work on prevention. It's just as important. I do not want any woman to end up in the situations with which the women to whom the honourable Member has spoken. To avoid this in the future, we must be able to work both preventive, preventive and criminal. The action programme with which the government is working and which we will be presenting shortly will contain all these elements. It is not good enough just to wait for crimes to be committed and then talk about the sentences. At the same time, we must also be ready to work on the man-standards that exist today, which means that 40% of high school young people have been victims of violence in a close relationship. It's high school students we're talking about. Here we have an extremely important problem to address. If we are unable to do so at the same time as we are talking about more stringent penalties, we will not solve this problem.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-490	Mr President, I would like to Evaluate us at the jobs, said the future Prime Minister Stefan Löfven in the 2014 election campaign and promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. At that time, we were eleventh in the European Union. Between 2014 and 2019 we had a strong boom both in the EU and in Sweden. In 23 out of 27 EU countries, unemployment decreased. In just three countries it increased, and it increased most in Sweden. In 2019, Sweden was suddenly 22nd in the EU in terms of unemployment. Recently figures came for March 2021, and then we were in 23rd place and had thus gone down another placement. Today, only Greece, Spain and Italy in Europe have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. Sweden has now also, for the first time since we joined the EU, higher unemployment than the average in the EU. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs what he thinks is the reason for this very sad development for Sweden.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-494	Mr President, I would like to There is a very simple answer to that. We have a lot of people who want to work in our country. That's a good thing. Labour supply in our country is higher than in many other EU countries. Turning the question around – this is what Jan Ericson knows about – and looking at the proportion of people working in EU countries, you do not see any country coming near Sweden. We have the highest employment rate throughout the European Union. During the time we have ruled, from 2014 onwards, more than 300 000 people have come to work. It is positive and should delight the Moderates, but instead they look like gloomy twigs. Mr President, I would like to Care should also be taken with this type of comparison, especially during a pandemic year. At the beginning of the pandemic last spring, we saw that the unemployment rate in Italy, when the pandemic hit at its worst, went down. This was, of course, not because unemployment fell in real terms, but because people withdrew from the labour market and, as a result, supply decreased. So caution should be exercised when making such comparisons.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-499	Mr President, I would like to Breaking a criminal path is one of the most important things that exists – for the individual, for society and not least for the victim, who then avoids being the victim. Correctional services have a crucial role to play in preventing relapses while in prison. This work has been called into question over the years, because the proportion of those who relapse into crime is still far too high, but the work has also developed in a way that actually inspires confidence. It is based on scientific basis and works well if the inmate is motivated. This is very important, and I will come back to that later in the speech. This report deals with very many important issues. In addition to the prevention of relapses in general, it also addresses issues relating to drop-outs, equal prison treatment for women and men, safety in leave and information to victims about leave. Mr President, I would like to Another important issue is to support the inmates in making everyday life work when they have served their sentence, i.e. in the small, everyday perspective of the so-called lockout activity – to ensure that bills are paid and contacts with authorities and employers are maintained. We in the Center Party believe that this work needs to be improved, and I therefore call for reservation 1. An incredibly important issue is the lack of capacity in places of detention. Full prisons must never be a cause of reduced security. The knowledge of lack of space has existed for a long time, but despite this, there is a lack of a sufficiently clear action plan for solving it. I think it is a good thing that Parliament is making an announcement to the government about this. Perhaps the most important issue in the report, however, is the announcement of new treatment programmes for child abusers. You know that repetition is the mother of knowledge, and I was going to repeat some of what Ellen Juntti was talking about. In my view, what we are now proposing is a first step on the road to something really good. The largest group of perpetrators of child sexual abuse are men with the sexual abnormality paedophilia. It is an atrocious crime and must render a heavy prison sentence, not least from a victim's perspective. In view of the nature of paedophiles, prison appears to be a sanction that is not sufficiently sure, accurate, accurate or adequate to actually prevent continued crime. Crime should also be curbed with care and treatment, which actually reduces the risk of relapse. However, treatment or medication must never have the effect of reducing the prison sentence. Care and treatment should be provided within the framework of the recidivism prevention programme of the penitentiary and should be provided for as a special provision in the context of probation. Mr President, I would like to Today's treatment programme for sex offenders focuses on reducing risk factors that drive sexual crime. For example, it is about changing a most frequently distorted view of sexuality and reducing sexual preoccupation and easily awakened aggressiveness. The participants in this programme are both in care and in an institution. They work with issues related to intimacy, relationships, sexuality, change strategies and how to handle emotions. The treatment programmes currently offered in prison are voluntary. But again, Mr President, the question is about motivation. Is this enough to achieve sufficient motivation, as I mentioned, to actually change one's behaviour? As we have heard, pharmacological treatment is not often used in prison. In fact, there is insufficient evidence to assess which treatment can reduce the number of relapses in crime. But recently research results from Karolinska Institutet were published showing that those taking this medicine were at lower risk of abuse, as risk factors were reduced. Patients and researchers are in favour of the result, and we consider it very important to continue that activity in order to achieve an evidence-based treatment against paedophilia that can be used while the inmate is serving his sentence. The treatment programme used today, whether or not we have had the results of this study, needs to be developed and intensified. And when we have sufficient evidence-based pharmacological treatment, it should be introduced as a form of treatment in prison. As mentioned above, the government should commission the Prison Service to take stock of research in this area and to design appropriate programmes for the medical treatment of paedophiles. I would also like to thank the parties who have supported the unanimous announcement. And I thank Ellen Juntti, the Moderates, who pushed the question.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-513	Mr President, I would like to Correctional services are currently in a strange situation. While the agency works intensively with CBT treatments to break the vicious circle and fills time in prison with good content and calls for opportunities for several different kinds of punishments, political parties shout for more and longer sentences without caring about the consequences of the punishment. There is no evidence that long sentences actually lead to a reduction in crime. However, if we really want to overcome crime and relapse into crime, very much fewer people should be locked up in prisons. And many, many more, would have their punishment free with an electronic anklet. Having your punishment out in the community is incredibly much tougher than being locked up. Out in society, in freedom, you have to face your habitual behavior patterns and old friends who do nonsense. You have to be sober and drug-free yourself. However, since it is only longer sentences that have been imposed, the prisons have been overfilled. Today, there is a great deal of strain on the state of the prison system. This has been the case for a very long time with overcrowded prisons and detention centres. This results, among other things, in the fact that the environment for the inmates becomes messier, with a greater risk of conflict and violence. It also affects the staff, who have a reduced working environment. But there is a simple and relatively cheap solution to reduce crime and to reduce overcrowding in prisons. Let those with a sentence of one year have their punishment free! It is those with short prison sentences who most of the time relapse into crime. It shows that the lockdown is a very bad tool. The Left Party believes that the number of short sentences imposed in prison should be reduced and that the use of intensive monitoring with electronic control should be extended. As a general rule, prison sentences of up to one year should be carried out by electronic anklet. It is a waste of tax revenue that the government refuses to investigate the possibility of several alternative penalties. There are enormous opportunities here to change the structure of the entire prison system and to actually follow what research and experience say. Instead, the government is putting forward proposals that will lead to increased crime by proposing that young people be locked up for longer. It is a guarantee that these young people will come out of punishment as adult life criteria. The problems of the penitentiary system need to be addressed both for the benefit of the inmates and for the benefit of the employees. It is not reasonable for the current situation to escalate further. The government therefore urgently needs to set up a group of experts to develop a strategy for both short-term and long-term penitentiary care, with a plan for the renovation of buildings and better adapted departments, treatment programmes and study opportunities. All this must be developed. Today, there is no treatment for people who have committed an honor-related crime – that should be self-evident. There is also no possibility of a good educational environment in all institutions, and the possibility of studying is too different in the institutions. It should be a socio-economic self-evident fact that people in prison can study at all levels and come out with an education. I request the approval of reservation 13.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-521	Mr President, I would like to A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. It is important in order to protect law-abiding and to restore victims and to maintain what is right and wrong. But it is also important to enable the offender to pay for his crime. Anyone who has taken his punishment has paid for his crime and has thereby been restored and given a chance to re-enter society in the eyes of others as a responsible person. Punishment is therefore a necessary element in the administration of justice. We are debating prison issues today. This should be done in the light of the fact that there should be enough places to cover the increased need arising from an increased number of sentenced people, but also that we should ensure that the time in prison is a time when a criminal path can be broken and the sentenced person can get support and motivation to change and leave a criminal life choice. The time when the sentence is served shall be used in a meaningful way. Treatment against alcohol and drug abuse, education and work training should be provided. Anstaltes should be kept drug-free. The release must be prepared in good time. In order to avoid relapses, the frivolous person should be helped to obtain housing, work or other useful employment. It is also important for the social network to be strengthened. Investing in the penal system must be seen as a way, and focused on, of reducing crime in the future. Mr President, I would like to We note that, in this area too, a majority of the Committee on Justice believes that more can be done than has been proposed and achieved so far by the government. Today's report contains five announcements that underline this fact and also mandate the government to act. One of the announcements made concerns an evaluation and further development of the content of penalties. The aim of a prison sentence must be to mark the end of the criminal course of the sentenced person. That is not enough today. There is therefore reason to evaluate and further develop the content of the activities facing the convicted during the sentence period. It is time to evaluate which methods can break an early negative life choice. Mr President, I would like to As previous speakers have mentioned, it is a fact that many children and young people in today's Sweden suffer from gross and disgusting sexual crimes. Of course, society must become even better at detecting these crimes and providing support to victims. There is also a consensus that these crimes should lead to heavy prison sentences for the perpetrators. But it is also a question of society and the prison services need to act during the period of detention of the perpetrators so that the crimes are not repeated after the sentence has been served. However, in view of the fact that many perpetrators of child sexual abuse are men with the sexual deviant paedophilia, prisons do not appear to be adequate sanctions to prevent continued crime. Crime also needs to be prevented with care and treatment that reduces the risk of relapse. Such care should be provided within the framework of the recidivism prevention programme of the penitentiary. The government should therefore commission the Prison Service to take stock of research in this field and to develop appropriate programmes for pharmacological and other medical treatment of paedophiles. Mr President, I would like to In today's Sweden there is no further penalty to escape or try to escape during the institution period. However, we Christian Democrats believe that escape and attempted escape from the penitentiary and departure from leave should be criminalised. The possibility of sanctions after escape is currently limited, and the consequences for the individual are therefore small. Ryming, when it happens, even though at the moment there are not many of them, often means that large resources are taken up from various parts of the currently severely strained judiciary. As stated in the announcement, the government should therefore come back with a proposal that imposes a prison sentence on escape and attempted escape from prison. Mr President, I would like to As a consequence of today's trend towards increased serious crime and a more effective and enhanced judicial system, the need for prison places has increased. The 2019 budget of the Christian Democrats and Moderates meant a strengthening of the Prison Service's budget, which gave increased opportunities to meet the challenges. However, Sweden needs more places in prisons and detention centres. The situation of the day is that the existing places of detention are not enough, but the prison services have been forced both to overcrowding and to short-term measures to solve the increased need. The penalties proposed will result in more people spending more time in prisons than now. The lack of prison places leads to considerable strain on both the inmates and the staff and also adversely affects relapse prevention work. The government must assume its responsibilities and act. We therefore see that the government must draw up an action plan for how capacity will be significantly increased in the long term. For us Christian Democrats, it is also a question of seeing other possibilities for resolving the emergency situation. In our opinion, in order to relieve the load, the Prison Service should also be asked to review whether it is possible to rent places abroad. We also believe that foreign citizens convicted of crimes in Sweden should, as a rule, serve their sentence in their home countries. Today, approximately 30% of the prisoners in Sweden's prisons are citizens of other countries. Sweden should therefore give priority to signing agreements with other countries to ensure that these citizens serve their sentences in their home country. Mr President, I would like to Treatment against abuse is also an important task for the prison service, and it is therefore very worrying that the Prison Service decided only a few weeks ago to phase out the use of the twelve-step programme in 2021 as part of the work with the prisoners. This decision is made even though the programme has produced good results in terms of drug cessation since it began to be used in the penitentiary sector in the mid-1990s. It is of concern that the programme will be replaced by a much shorter general CBT programme. In my view, it should have been possible to combine, not replace, the programme to support drug cessation. Approximately 70% of inmates are considered to have substance abuse problems. In the light of this, the decision appears to be short-term. Many from various NGOs have contacted me and expressed great concern about this change, as they fear that the positive results they have seen over the years where individuals have managed to break their drug dependence by joining the twelve-step programme are now at risk of missing. In some interviews, the person responsible for the programme activities in the prison care department stated that despite the fact that the twelve-step programme is effective and good, the need for space within the prison service does not create room for this activity. This, in my view, gives further weight to the demands for a strategy for expansion to enable a re-launch of long-term drug prevention programmes. Mr President, I would like to As I have just mentioned, I have contact with organisations that work on a voluntary basis to meet the prison inmates both during and after time in prison. For us Christian Democrats, it is natural to see civil society as a resource that can be part of the work of guiding people on the right path in life again. For us, voluntary organisations have a natural place in the reintegration of the sentenced, both before and after their release. Civil society already has a major role to play in supporting the reintegration of formerly convicted persons. Associations should therefore be encouraged to be included as part of the lives of the inmates both before and after release. For example, drop-outs, where criminals can turn when they want to leave their criminal life, have been run by various NGOs for several years. However, we cannot assume that civil society will be set up automatically unless the economic conditions exist. Deduction rights for gifts were reintroduced into the KD-M budget and are an important step in supporting civil society financially. The Christian Democrats also want to develop cooperation by providing compensation to NGOs in relation to how well they are able to reintegrate previously convicted people. On this basis, I would like to endorse reservation 7. Mr President, I would like to As today's report and debate show, there is a need for further activity both in terms of the lack of space in today's institutions and the need to reform methods and treatment arrangements in order to help break a destructive lifestyle and drug addiction. Once again, the government needs guidance and announcements from committees and the Riksdag in order to achieve desirable targets and changes in the prison system. The announcements we are discussing today point to measures that urgently need to be implemented. We Christian Democrats support the announcements proposed by the majority of the committee, as well as, of course, the claims of the Christian Democrats themselves. In this debate, as I said earlier, I only support reservation 7.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-545	Mr President, I would like to I listened very carefully to Ingemar Kihlström. I can see that there is a problem, Mr President, and that is that it sounds as if we are less in agreement than we really are, as well as in many contexts when we are discussing issues in our area. We agree on a lot of issues. When the opposition wants to put forward a proposal and make an announcement, we sometimes have reservations on the grounds that there is actually work going on in this area. We can also choose to do as we have done in this case, to say in some places that we can agree to an announcement because it is in line with what is going on. But I think there is a problem when you try to describe a reality that doesn't really exist. I would like to ask a question on, for example, escapes, which Ingemar Kihlström raises. He says there's hardly any escape. Nevertheless, this requires a great deal of resources. It is not true for me when I get this description – that there are no escapes but that it still takes a lot of resources. Can Ingemar Kihlström explain this to me? If one were to criminalise escapes, that does not mean that it does not use any resources. There will be a great demand for resources for the judiciary – for courts and for other authorities. I would like an answer to that.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-549	Mr President, I would like to I thank Carina Ödbrink for the question. As she points out, there is in many parts a great consensus between us. It is often the case that the role of the opposition is to point things out and take advantage of the opportunity to make sure that something happens – like the drop that erodes the stone. We note that in the area of justice we have many announcements. Unfortunately, it is a fact that we have to repeat them because we do not get the answers as quickly as we wish. As far as escapes are concerned, it is correct that at the moment there are no. But when there is an escape, and this has happened over the years, it is often a matter of people who in many cases pose a great risk to society. This leads to a huge effort from the police, for example. So there are a great many people involved in an escape. Right now, there's no escape. But when the next escape occurs, there will be a great need for society to grab it and get hold of the one who has escaped. This also applies if someone deviates from a leave. It uses resources. In the announcement that probably does not get a majority in the Riksdag, we ask the Government to return with a proposal that there should be a penalty for escape. Today, there are very limited means of sanctioning an escape. This in itself means that the desire to escape is not stifled. The person holding the penitentiary also signals that he or she does not stand on the basis of the judicial system and does not take the punishment resulting from the crime.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-553	Mr President, I would like to Then I think it is much better that the prison services can take action when a deviation or an escape occurs. If there is to be a criminalisation, it will be a matter for the judiciary and for the Prosecutor's Office. It'll take a long time. Then you don't get tangible effects directly. I don't think that's a good option. Ingemar Kihlström also mentioned the twelve-step programme, which is being phased out in prison. There were four different programmes within the twelve-step programme for people with substance abuse problems. The current situation in the prison system is such that 70% of clients have some kind of substance abuse problem. However, only 20 percent of clients are subject to treatment programs. This measure is, of course, about freeing up places in the current strained situation. But it is also about finding ways to reach more people and being able to help and support more people in tackling their addiction problems. To suggest that the government should develop an action plan for long-term capacity, I think, Mr President, is to break open doors. For the second year in a row, the Prison Service has presented a capacity report. Sometimes I think that the opposition is too busy going into details of which we in this House do not have knowledge and competence or experience. In fact, I think this is primarily a matter for the prison services. But, of course, we should be clear and tell us where we want to go, and the government has done so in that it has given a mission.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-557	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the twelve-step programme has been highly valued in the prison services. Good results have been seen. It's about having a puzzle that you put in order for individuals to break their drug addiction. The programme has been operational since 1995. On a direct question, the person responsible says that it is the lack of space that ends the use of the twelve-step program. Of course, we politicians cannot be experts on which programme is the best. But I think that when the motive is lack of space and not that the twelve-step programme is ineffective, and there are many signals from both people inside and outside the prison system that the twelve-step programme can be the programme that leads to a drug-free existence, it seems to me as short-sighted to not have a continued plan. Then there may be new programs. But this is not in contrast to the fact that there is an increased marketing of the programme – an increased motivation. It is a question, as Carina Ödbrink says, of catching up with the 70% who have drug problems. As far as capacity is concerned, it is no wonder that we in the opposition are pointing out what the situation is. When, after these seven years of reigning, we still have a glaring lack of prison places, it is our duty to talk about the need to take a greater hold in order to ensure that the problems of shortcomings that exist are addressed. I think that is the role of the opposition, and I will continue to act in that spirit.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-561	Mr President, I would like to Correctional services, this place for the unfortunate children of society and for all those people who in one way or another have done great harm to others and to society as a whole, apart from themselves. And sometimes they have contributed to the death of people. It could be murder, manslaughter, and a lot of other serious crimes that put them there. We have an ambition in Sweden that the prison services will make people better, that people who come in there will meet a turning point and come out better. There are all kinds of slogans that the prison services have used over the years. When I was given the privilege of debating these issues for the first time, there were real discussions about whether people would be allowed to lie in the cell and smoke instead of participating in work, treatment and education. There are three things that are absolutely crucial for these people to get better out. We have one in every way very special years behind us, so also in the penitentiary that has worked hard during the pandemic combined with increased pressure in the business. The police have become somewhat more effective, and there is a little bit more on the prosecution side and in the courts. Unfortunately, crime has spread and become more serious so that there are more and more prison years. So there is a great need to expand. I'll be right back to that. The recruitment needs of not least employees are high. There are huge needs that the prison services face, while there is still quite a large turnover of staff due to the fact that it is a hard task to work in the prison services. You should also have high ambitions. But it's also about security – both for the staff of the prison service, who are doing an amazing job, and for the inmates – when it looks like it does. Looking back, however, we can see that we have nevertheless achieved an improvement in the reduction in relapses. Looking back a few years, this is very clear. That's good. The bad message, however, is that there is a certain group, that is, gang criminals, who have become increasingly difficult to control in these environments. It is also made more difficult by the lack of space, which makes it difficult to move these people who are difficult to influence – if we express ourselves mildly – to a better life. You can also add something that we talk about every day, about which we can read in the media and which is taken up when we meet with police and prosecutors, namely Encrochat. We must also thank the Supreme Court, I was about to say, for following the Swedish Code of Procedure and the Constitution and allowing this evidence. Because it will lock up even more. However, it is increasing the pressure on our prisons enormously, Madam President, because we are talking about perhaps thousands of additional prison years. To call this a gift from above may be to take it in, but it is quite good that serious criminals can be prosecuted and locked up; it may provide new opportunities to push back crime and increase security in society. As far as the Liberals are concerned, we can see that this matter of punishment is important. There, the job opportunities are central, and we can see that there are slightly different things between men and women who are in our institutions. We know that the pandemic has enabled some businesses to increase their work, including those who made bunk beds for themselves, but we also see that it has become difficult to have production started in other important operations. This is where you should learn to work, because work is what you should do when you have served your sentence. Then you should be able to return to and pay back your debt to society, and then it is actually work that applies. Work development has therefore been good. We can also see that there are more who start and more who complete courses and programmes, which is also very important. These are people who often have a lack of knowledge – not always, but they need to replenish their skills so that, in combination with work training, they get easier to get a life outside the institution. This is also done in combination with important support measures, as several previous speakers have pointed out. As far as the treatment programmes are concerned, we can see that they have also contributed to what I just saw, that is to say that relapses are decreasing. We have 14 accredited programs under way and several new ones under development; this is about the disgusting sexual crimes, with aggression in general and with violence in close relationships. They also work actively with the issue of honor, but more may need to be done. Work, treatment and education are thus internationally very good in Swedish prisons, but it can get better. However, there is an urgent need for more places – the Correctional Service points to the need for 5,700 places in the near future, and it has not become less so since it was written in the Prison Service's annual report. Today there are 4,300, and so there is a need for even more thanks to Encrochat, as I mentioned earlier. There is a need for a rapture and a major takeover from the government. What has now started in practice in 2018, and as a representative of the Liberals, I am happy to join in emphasising that cooperation with the government has been crucial for efforts to be made on the judiciary. It is not possible to go on and sauce with these plans for expansion, but the shovel must be on the slopes and the cement mixers must be started. Now we see this, but the sad thing is that it will take quite a long time, Madam President. It takes time to build a new institution. For the time being, we will have to continue opening course yards, old cell prisons and other units that have previously been closed to cope with this enormous pressure. We see the same thing in the jails; there it is estimated that there needs to be 2,500 places, and today we have 2,200. Those places should also be produced. It is necessary for quality, for the safety of employees and for the safety of prisoners and for the criminal services – preferably – to be the turning point in the chain of law enforcement authorities in general. It is therefore necessary. The report talks about the content, the programmes and more places. Then we've been up to this with escapes. For the Liberals, it is quite obvious that there is something strange about the fact that it is punishable to help escape while it is not criminal for the very star shot that comes from the idea of escaping to do so. It can be said that we have recently discussed and decided in this House that from 1 May – only a few weeks ago – only special reasons, not exceptional reasons, are required to delay conditional release. The Liberals think that's very good. Of course it's supposed to be criminal to run away. This applies not only to prisons within the Prison Service but also to Sis, the Migration Agency's custody and so on. It should therefore be straightforward, but there seem to be some parties who think that it is extremely important that it should be punishable to escape but punishable to help. For the Liberals, this transfer is also very important. A large number of citizens from other countries are in Swedish institutions. In the year that passed, 2020, we were only able to transfer 79 people to the countries where they belonged. True, there may have been a corona effect. But if we talk about the principle of proximity for inmates in Sweden – that you should have the opportunity to serve your sentence near the place where you have lived your life or maybe live your life after an institution – it should apply even more if you are from another country. Moreover, it is not our business to help these citizens, because they have come here and committed crimes. They shall be released as soon as possible if they have received such a judgment. There are different reasons. One is that there would be poor prison standards in other countries, that is, humanitarianly inadequate. Yes, we should take into account torture and inhumane treatment, but when it comes to bad prisons, I think that the government has a lot to do and that it should come back to the issue. It'll be easier to deport. The same applies to the bureaucracy that exists and that we decide here. Now the government has said that it will look at this and see if it is either too short a sentence or if it is too short a time left to enforce the sentence. However, when you look at the Nordic, European and international relocation mechanism, it is clear that it is based on the inmates themselves taking the initiative to move, but it is the Swedish state that should be strong driving force in this to ensure that people serve their sentences in their home country. It's good for the inmate, and it also happens – which is probably so important – to be very good for Sweden, Madam President. Liberals support the proposals for announcements in the report. I am in favour of reservation 10, but of course we are in favour of all our other reservations. Reservation 10 is about gender equality in prison care. In women's institutions, it is still unequal in terms of the possibility of being treated as a woman and not as a man, as well as in terms of different possibilities for treatment and rehabilitation support measures. This needs to be improved. Correctional services themselves report that they have set up some activities to achieve the objective of equal treatment in prisons, which we in the Liberals think is central. Men and women must have the same rights and the same obligations in Sweden 2021, Madam President.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-578	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Sida's warranty activities. Guarantees are an instrument that can play a crucial role in the effectiveness of international aid. To achieve independence of aid and move from aid to trade requires a reformed aid and a capacity for curiosity, innovation and innovation. On Sida's website, it is possible to read that guarantees are an instrument similar to insurance and mean that Sida shares risk with an investor or a bank in order to mobilise capital for example in infrastructure projects or small businesses that otherwise had not received a loan or investment. Through the guarantees, each SEK that is invested can multiply, and according to Sida mobilizes a paid aid crown in subsidies SEK 70 in external capital. The guarantees therefore act as an important leverage for capital flows to development projects. Guarantee operations are a relatively new instrument, and we therefore welcome the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office makes important recommendations on how the work can be developed. However, the Swedish National Audit Office writes that there are several factors that make the use of guarantees more difficult. Among other things, Sida's employees feel that the incentives are stronger to use instruments other than guarantees because it generates larger payments. Employees state that their work is primarily valued on the basis of generated payments rather than on the basis of mobilized capital through guarantees. It is referred to that guarantees generate no or small payments of aid, which means that it cannot be prioritised higher by Sida's employees. This is a clear consequence of the current system, in which the expenditure target – to spend money – is superior to the results. I really understand that the employees feel and act in this way. When Swedish aid is based on how much money we pay out, the priorities are easily distorted. It is no wonder that this is the case, but it raises some questions in my mind as to whether this is really the right way to go. I don't think it is. Swedish aid has done a lot of good in the world, and it will continue to do so. But crises are bound to question old truths. In this case, we clearly see that the payment target stands in the way of guarantees that would generate multiple external capital for development projects. The Moderates have repeatedly pointed out the problem of the current governance model and budgeting principle with a goal of spending a certain proportion of GDP on aid. Here we have a clear example of the problem – that the guarantee instrument is cost-effective is thus seen as a challenge. On Sida's website you can read that the goal of Swedish aid is to give people living in poverty and oppression power and the opportunity to improve their own living conditions. But if I interpret Sida's employees correctly, the goal is more about how much money is paid out. In practice, Swedish aid does not work according to the goal that stands very clearly on Sida's website, and that is because we are so incredibly focused on how much money we pay out. Madam President, I would like This cannot be the right order. In 1968, the Swedish Parliament decided on the one per cent target. I cannot be the only one who thinks that the world and not least Sweden has changed since then. Today we see shootings daily in Sweden. Unemployment is growing. Women do not feel safe going out at night even in their own residential areas. While it is important to note that we have major problems within Sweden's borders, we cannot ignore the fact that the climate crisis is a fact. Right now, when there is talk of lost years or even decades of development, it is more important than ever to be result-oriented and not hide behind a payout target. To shift the focus to results, a change in the governance and budgeting of aid is needed. The Moderates want to see a four-year budgetary framework instead of today's twitchy and unpredictable model. With long-term planning, predictability and focus on results, we can achieve more. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office notes that there are risks of unfair incentives in the selection of guarantors when subsidies are charged to the administrative grant. It is described that the administrative allocation is less flexible than the aid allocation, which risks creating incentives for cooperation with guarantors based on their ability to pay rather than their ability to reach out to the right target groups. The Moderates are therefore in favour of changing the financing of the guarantee instrument so that subsidies from the administrative charge under the guarantee instrument are financed from the aid grant. This was a brief speech, but perhaps we will make up for it in the debate here. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 1.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-593	Madam President, I would like Today, as you know, we are debating a letter concerning the review of Sida's warranty activities and whether the work has been effective. Basically, it is a good thing that guarantees have come to play an increasingly important role in development cooperation. We in the Swedish Democrats therefore see that this type of review is positive. However, we believe that the government needs to take a number of measures more clearly. Like what was said by the Moderates just now, we see that it is problematic when you focus on how much money is spent on aid and not on the results of these efforts. We believe that there must be a much clearer focus on results and that the money should also be useful. In comparison with other donor countries, a very small proportion of Swedish aid goes to companies and entrepreneurs in the recipient countries. The credit guarantee system is therefore positive, as it partly compensates for the fact that so much of the aid goes to public activities or civil society organisations. Although the Swedish National Audit Office has not made any concrete recommendations after the review, it is clear that it clearly calls for objective grounds to be used and reported for decisions on subsidies to the credit charges. Subsidies may otherwise distort the credit market, and the fact that aid policy is guided by an overall spending target increases this risk. It is also clear that the Swedish National Audit Office sees a need for better analysis of possible future losses. Even if losses have so far been small, there may be changes in the future. There is a risk that things will look different and, at worst, organised crime, for example, may try to access the funds offered. The Swedish Democrats therefore agree that there is a need for improvement and, like the Swedish National Audit Office, believe that the internal support and documentation for these analyses must be strengthened. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly pointed out that the government needs to be much clearer in its support for oppressed minorities around the world. Sadly, we will also have to come back to that in the future. We are forced to continue to do this precisely in the light of the lack of commitment that we see the government has on this issue. The most persecuted group globally is the Christian, which is one reason in itself to strengthen the commitment to acknowledge this fact and to work to protect this group from various forms of abuse that we see continuously around the world. Furthermore, as a country based largely on Christian traditions, Sweden has further reason to act on this issue. Aid in this regard is a great tool for helping vulnerable people, which we should do, but also for putting pressure on states that do not live up to specific conditions. We believe that Sweden must make clearer conditional demands for improvements in these respects towards those states that receive Swedish aid, including in the form of Sida's warranty operations. Madam President, I would like Refugee camps are generally seen as a temporary solution in an acute and difficult time for people forced to flee their homes. Sadly, reality today shows something quite different. Refugee camps tend to remain for decades and in many cases even longer, and in several cases camps have gradually become permanent settlements. Whole settlements have developed in many parts of the world. I'm sure there are several of us in here who have visited these camps with their own eyes and have seen this development. We have seen this transformation from refugee camps to clean cities. The key to giving the people living in these camps a reasonably safe life and a decent life, and to enabling long-term livelihoods, is to work for a developed economy in which the inhabitants themselves have a chance of working life and a dignified job. Credit guarantees are being given today to just such projects in various refugee camps, which is a good thing. However, we would be happy to see that business projects in refugee camps are particularly emphasised in terms of credit for small businesses, because they can contribute to the safer development of camps and hopefully also reduce the emergence of, for example, refugee flows from them. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report, which is reservation number 2.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-606	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report The Swedish National Audit Office's review of Sida's guarantee activities. For some who listen to today's debate, it may seem to be something that may sound technical and peripheral at first, but nothing can be more wrong. Swedish aid is known to make a real difference around the world and is something we can be extremely proud of. As a social democrat, it is self-evident to stand up for the 1% target at a time that is currently challenging all humanity. At the same time, we need to find more tools and new opportunities that can help create additional benefits. One such tool, which has grown in importance in recent years, is today's debate. Even before the pandemic, the humanitarian situation was extremely serious in many places around the world. Even before the pandemic, more people were on the run than ever before, partly because there are more armed conflicts in the world than ever before, but also because we are seeing increasingly serious effects of climate change, such as extreme droughts, floods and pests. Unfortunately, even before the pandemic, more and more people could not eat enough. What has happened in the past one and a half years is that covid-19-pandemin exponentially has magnified these challenges. According to a recent report from Oxfam, it may take more than ten years before the poverty rate in the world is at the same level as just before the pandemic. At the same time, according to the same report, it took for the world's thousand richest people barely nine months from the start of the pandemic before their fortunes had recovered. The Covid-19 pandemic has increased economic inequality in almost every country in the world. It is also the first time such a change has been measured since the measurements started, over a hundred years ago. One natural consequence of this, which we are now experiencing, is that poverty and hunger are increasing, that we are now in the worst unemployment crisis in 90 years. Over 200 million people are at risk of poverty due to the economic consequences of the pandemic. Not least, women are very hard hit by the effects of the coronapndemine, because globally, women are over-represented in the low-paid and insecure jobs group. 60% of the world's women work in the informal sector. We also see an increase in food insecurity in the world and an increasing number of people in need of emergency assistance. In conclusion, the pandemic has spewed out the already great inequalities in the world regarding the economy, race and gender, and the huge gap between rich and poor in the world is proving to be at least as deadly as the virus itself. The World Bank points out that if all the countries of the world were to now instead work to reduce inequalities in society, we could return to the level of well-being that we had before the pandemic in three years rather than the decade that Oxfam is talking about. Instead, we see, unfortunately, that many countries in the world around us are cutting back on their ambitions in terms of aid and solidarity with those who are now suffering, which is in danger of strengthening negative developments. I think it is a sign of weakness that large parties in the Swedish parliament, such as the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, choose such an opportunity to let the poorest in the world take the bill for one of the richest countries in the world, because that is precisely what is being done when the debate on the size of Swedish aid puts the world's poor against spending for the Swedish police. Swedish aid is also one of the world's absolute best. Independent evaluations show that our money is right and helps many of the most vulnerable in the world. When developments in many directions go in the wrong direction and democracy backs in more places than it goes forward, every effort for peace, democracy, development and human rights counts. This is not a time to let the world's poor take part in the bill for Swedish aid. Lack of funding, which we are discussing here today, is also an obstacle for many entrepreneurs in developing countries, not least women, and for important infrastructure projects and for people to emerge from poverty. There, Sweden now has a unique guarantee instrument that enables Sida to share risks with lenders and investors. Therefore, the Swedish National Audit Office's review is very welcome. The assessment in the Swedish National Audit Office's review is that the guarantees have become more important in Swedish development cooperation. The Swedish National Audit Office also makes the assessment that the government's governance has been clear and that the work on the guarantees has essentially worked well. It's very pleasing. Having said that, I am in favour of the Foreign Affairs Committee's proposal.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-620	Madam President, I would like Swedish aid should make a real difference, and I think that I and Annika Strandhäll agree on that. Today, however, the payment target for good projects is difficult, which could have been very useful. Sida's employees state that the cost-effectiveness of guarantees is a challenge because it simply does not generate payments. The needs in the world do not become less, on the contrary, just as Annika Strandhäll lifts up in her speech. Extreme poverty is increasing markedly in the wake of the pandemic and progress is going in the wrong direction. Therefore, I would like to ask: Does Annika Strandhäll think it is okay that cost-effective projects are removed because they do not generate payments? Is this a reasonable approach at a time when there is talk of lost years, or even decades, of development?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-623	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Antoni for the question. It is important to point out that Swedish aid has been evaluated in the near future by OECD-Dac, in fact as late as 2019, and that it was then stated that Swedish aid is generally very effective. However, as I also stressed at the end of my main speech, the work on guarantees is an important instrument. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Swedish National Audit Office's review largely lands in that it looks pretty good. It also contains a number of recommendations, not least to the authorities, which will allow further improvements to be made. Whether it is the guarantee instrument or the other parts of Swedish aid, we need to ensure that every krona is used in the absolute best possible way, and that includes this as well.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-627	Madam President, I would like The Moderates want Sweden to continue to make a big difference in the world, but there must be a reasonableness in this. The state's budget is not infinite, and today we have major problems that need to be resolved even within Sweden's borders. Right now we have an instrument that is cost-effective, and it is the guarantee instrument, which can make a big difference for many people in the world. However, due to the payment target, the use of the guarantees is removed from priority. Why should Sweden start from an objective that makes development work difficult? Wouldn't it be better instead to work profit-oriented with all the tools we have at our disposal?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-630	Madam President, I would like Swedish aid works profit-oriented and is also continuously evaluated, and the overall conclusion is, as I said, that Swedish aid is very effective. In the time we now live in, one should probably not cause the uncertainty or send the signals that the wailing of large parties in the Swedish parliament makes linked to the aid. I sat as late as lunch today in a meeting with Concord, which represents a large number of very serious aid organisations in Sweden, and then the very concern they feel about how populist the Swedish aid debate has become. For example, how the Moderates put the Swedish aid against the funding of the Swedish police force in different collaborative images. It's not serious.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-633	Madam President, I would like On Annika Strandhäll it sounds like the Swedish state's bag of money is endless. There is actually one thing that unites me and Annika Strandhäll, believe it or not, and that is that we both believe that aid can make a difference to vulnerable people around the world. We are both supporters of international aid. The problem, as the Moderates have also said, is that the focus of the Social Democrats and the Government seems to be to send as much money as possible from Sweden to various aid projects. Instead, my view is that the money we spend should be used properly. It is the result that should be the focus, and that is what we need to focus on. The money bag is, of course, not infinite, and the resources we can spend on international aid are limited. Then they'll be useful, too. But above all they must be weighed against the conditions in Sweden. If things go badly for Swedish society, there will be less money left for aid. So it's all connected. Against this background, I ask Annika Strandhäll: Does she mean that there is no ceiling for how much money Sweden can invest in aid?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-638	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Wiechel for the question. Having been a minister for five years, I am well aware that the Swedish state budget is not infinite. Each krona must be used in an efficient and wise way to build a stronger Sweden, and our international engagement will make a difference in real terms but also help to strengthen Sweden's position in different ways. I would say that Swedish aid does. As Mr Wiechel himself says, we are living in a special time, and that is precisely why I focused in my main speech on the rapid negative development we see as a result of the pandemic and what it means for the world's poor, for the stability of our world and for the risk of further flows of refugees and conflicts. This is exactly what Swedish aid is supposed to help reduce by building stability and supporting countries to emerge from poverty. In this situation and as one of the world's leading aid countries, sending a signal that it is okay to cut Swedish aid by one third, which is what we are talking about, in favour of the funding of the Swedish police force is not serious. These needs should not have to be set against each other. In addition, Swedish aid is very effective.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-643	Madam President, I would like Swedish aid is also very generous and has been so for a long time. We are by far among the top in terms of how much money we spend on aid, and we can be proud of that. But we must also see that we cannot always do everything and that we cannot save the whole world. When it comes to signals, it is better to signal what may come to get a long-term view of politics. In fact, Sweden has not survived the pandemic very well either. Our unemployment is one of the worst in Europe, if not the worst. Sweden has also become a pariah country in relation to other countries as a result of the government's terrible pandemic management. This will of course affect trade with Sweden and so on. Pandemic management affects many areas. The money we can spend on aid is not endless, and so we need to focus on making the right investments and making sure that the money goes to what it is supposed to do. Above all, however, we must not turn a blind eye to the fact that there are other areas in society that we need to invest in in order for us to have any aid at all in the future.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-646	Madam President, I would like It has to stand for Markus Wiechel when he calls Sweden a pariah country and talks about the government's terrible pandemic management. History and evaluations will eventually show whether or not this becomes a legacy. What we can say is that Sweden does not live in a bubble, but, like many other countries, we are affected by the consequences of the pandemic in terms of unemployment and major challenges ahead. Thankfully, since 2014, we have had a government that has turned the deficit of SEK 60 billion in the Swedish public finances, which was taken over, into real surpluses – or, to quote the Minister of Finance, saved the barns properly. As a result, we have been able to counter the consequences of the crisis, with investments in companies and in our social security policies, to name but a few, in a way that may be unprecedented compared to many other countries. I believe that an evaluation will eventually show us. That is exactly what this is about: we need to keep order in public finances in order to ensure that we have forward aid at a level that we all want, but also in order to deal with the consequences of the coronapndemin and to build back better, as we say. I thank Markus Wiechel for his questions and look forward to further debate on the size of Swedish aid.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-651	Madam President, I would like One of the harsh truths of development policy is that the money is not enough. The world's overall aid budgets will by no means be sufficient to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030 and to lift people out of poverty and ensure that we reach the development goals that we have jointly agreed on will be achieved in this decade. If we are to achieve the global goals, we must be able to use other sources of funding. To some extent, it is a matter of ensuring that corruption and tax evasion do not undermine the economy and development power of developing countries and that corrupt leaders must not steal from their own people. But above all, Madam President, our challenge is to mobilise other sources of finance and private capital to achieve development results. Guarantee activities are an important part of achieving this. Although it is a relatively new instrument and hopefully an instrument that will be developed, we already see quite good signs. It was with pleasure that I read the review from the National Audit Office, and I am sure that it is not the last review that we will see in this area. What can already be interpreted is that it is an instrument that is already important and has the potential to develop and make even more useful. The Center Party wants the aid budget to be a lever to mobilise wider resources, that is to say, just what the guarantee activities are supposed to do. We want to see states, including Sweden, participate in trying to reduce the risk for those who want to invest in order to achieve development results. We all know that one problem in trying to lift people out of poverty, build richer countries and ensure that the poorest countries in the world develop is that there are uncertain environments to operate in. We know that this is the case for those who work with aid, and we know that this is the case for companies. It can be tricky to have staff there. You take financial risks. And we know that respect for property rights, for individuals as well as for companies, is often lacking. All of this sums up to a higher risk. If we are to make it safe enough and a little safer a little more often, to get a little more investment every year that goes into these environments, instruments are needed, and tools are needed to lower the threshold. That is exactly what the guarantee business could be. This is about, for example, Swedish companies, which have a great deal of expertise in the climate and the environment, which have a great know-how when it comes to building sustainable growth and which are often also good at creating jobs with decent conditions, should more often dare to invest in environments where Swedish aid works and thus build broader and more long-term relationships. Madam President, I would like If there is one thing that we also know, it is that the goal of aid is that we should not have to give it and that we should one day be able to say that we have now achieved our goals, that we have now reached as far as we can reach with development policy and that it is now about moving to broader relationships, that we continue to have a relationship with the countries, local communities and regions where we operate and that we link more closely to Sweden while helping to lift people out of poverty, build sustainable societies and build gender equality, democracy and legally secure societies around the world. Guarantee activities can also play an important role in ensuring that financial resources reach those who are struggling to lift themselves, those who are struggling to lift the local community out of poverty, those who are struggling to make exactly the same poverty journey as Sweden has done over the past 170 years. These are the ones that we know are not being achieved enough, those who find it difficult to connect to the financial flows and those who find it difficult to get a loan to develop or start their business and take the work that they are already doing but actually be able to turn it into a business in a public and white economy. In this respect, the guarantee business can play an important role in reducing the risk. Of course, it is not a tool that stands for itself. When we use the warranty tool, it is important that it is also about changing resources to achieve development results. It is not about us moving money from a government budget to a company's revenue side. What is pleasing in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is that, at least so far, it is a risk that one has been able to manage to avoid. It will not be a minor challenge when the tool is hopefully scaled up and developed. Furthermore, Madam President, all of this will not be less important after the year we have just had, after the coronapandemy, which has come true and has meant that we have lost perhaps ten years or more of development results and poverty reduction. We know that hundreds of millions are now at risk of being thrown back into poverty, and throwing back into poverty comes as a letter to the post office the increased risk of inequality, of gender-based violence and of girls and boys being kept home from school. It is about all the other development results that we are aiming for. We are in danger of losing development in all areas, as poverty is now spreading again in broad layers in the tracks of the pandemic. Right now, after the pandemic, when we are trying to rebuild, it will be important that we reverse the developments that have taken place during the pandemic, when trade chains have been broken, when economies have slowed down, when businesses have been forced to close again and when business opportunities for ordinary people have disappeared. We know that our challenge over the next few years is to do everything we can to get the opposite development – just as has happened in the last decade: that free trade works, that more people connect to global value chains and that more people have the opportunity to be entrepreneurs and lift themselves a, their children and their local society out of poverty. In this context, guarantee activities can also play an extremely important role by ensuring that positive economic trends are as strong as possible in reality after the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I have said that I am pleased with the Swedish National Audit Office's review. I hope that this means that we will have a more flexible debate on what we want to use the guarantee activities for and how we use the aid budget as a lever to achieve further development results. As I said, we have a challenge even if more countries reach the mark of 0.7% of gross national income in aid and although more countries hopefully do as Sweden and see that they need to take a special responsibility and go above that mark. Even if we manage to do this, public funds are not enough, but we need to channel all the economic flows we can if we are to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-667	Madam President, I would like Over the last few decades, extreme poverty in the world has decreased dramatically. Eight out of ten children are currently receiving measles vaccine. World life expectancy has increased to 70 years, and infant mortality has fallen to under 5%. This shows that it is possible to change if there is a will. Unfortunately, we have seen in recent years that positive developments have halted and even reversed, partly because of the increasing number of conflicts in the world. And this negative development has unfortunately been reinforced by the pandemic. This means that more people are forced to leave their homes, more women and girls are subjected to sexual violence and fewer children are given the opportunity to go to school. But not only are developments going backwards in countries that are in conflict, but a number of countries are also strangling the democratic space. Freedom of expression is restricted by the forced closure of media companies, the silence of journalists and preventing people from organising and demonstrating. There are also countries which, in the 21st century, are introducing laws that reduce women's and girls' right to control their own bodies. Reactionary, patriarchal and racist currents, often supported by an economic elite, reap success by targeting the cape at the already most vulnerable and by destroying the environment and climate. At this time, a strong policy of equality, justice and sustainable global development is needed. Madam President, I would like Unless we ensure that people have decent working conditions and wages, unless school, health care and care are provided as needed, unless equality is achieved and women are given the right to decide over their own bodies, unless discrimination and racism are countered and if we do not take climate change seriously, it does not matter how many Millennium Goals or Agenda 2030 are set up; inequality will continue to increase. This applies not only to all other governments in the world, but also to Sweden. Here, tax relief is a priority for rich people who cannot flush their toilets at the farmhouse, despite cuts in preschools, schools and care for the elderly. Here, private performers are prioritised in welfare, even though it is thus impoverished and the majority of the Swedish people want profits removed from welfare. Here the government is therefore prepared to reduce working conditions, despite the fact that most people want better working conditions, not least our young people and new arrivals who are exploited in a labour market with jobs of hours and gigs in a poor working environment. Given that the government is not pushing for greater equality in Sweden, I am not surprised that the government is not pushing for what is really needed to make the world more equal. Among other things, the UN and numerous organisations highlight human rights and environmental due diligence in order for companies to be forced to comply with human rights, climate agreements and offer decent working conditions and wages. Country-by-country reporting is also highlighted as a tool against the tax evasion that is greater than all world aid. However, the government is simply shrugging its shoulders at the important proposals. So here we are now, with an inequality that according to Oxfam's report The Inequality Virus is so great that the world's ten richest people during the pandemic have earned more than is needed for covid-19 vaccine to the entire world's population and to ensure that nobody gets into poverty because of the pandemic. This is happening at the same time as most of the world's people have had a deterioration in their economy. Until we have changed the unfair system, aid is needed. It's the least we can do in the rich part of the world. It is we who have done and continue to make wealth at the expense of the majority of the people. Madam President, I would like The fact that Swedish aid contributes to a large part to achieving goals or to counteracting decline shows a number of different evaluations. The most widely distributed and important in the world of development aid is the OECD-Dac report, which no later than 2019 classified Sweden as the best in the class. That makes me very proud as an aid political spokesperson, even though I am a left-wing party. However, that does not mean that I believe that the government can sit back and drive around in familiar tracks. Of course, aid must be constantly developed, improved and complemented by other tools. Guarantee activities, which we are talking about today, are a new way of channeling and contributing to the development of countries. In many other countries justified criticism is being levelled at guarantee activities when those countries use aid funds to do so. Aid funds that could have been used, for example, for health care, schools and stable tax authorities are therefore high if any loans paid out were not to be repaid. Sweden has instead chosen to use the National Debt Office in terms of guarantees and in this way can continue with other necessary assistance. This also highlights the Swedish National Audit Office as a positive thing when they have reviewed the warranty business. On the other hand, they address justified criticism of Sida's evaluations, which are not yet accurate enough to see whether the aid policy objectives are being achieved by the guarantee activities. Unfortunately, there is also no research showing the effects of the guarantee activities. While I think it is good that we are trying new ways, it is therefore important that we do not expand the guarantee business until we have clear results showing that it works. As I said, the pandemic has shown that the economic system in which we live is not working. There is another new thing here that we could press for and that could help us to get out of the pandemic faster. The pharmaceutical companies have quickly managed to develop vaccines. But they have not done so entirely by themselves in a vacuum, but they have received great state support for it. Nevertheless, they fail to produce enough vaccines to satisfy everyone. Here again, we could do something new to ensure that more vaccines are produced. Sweden should support the proposal put forward by India and South Africa, together with over a hundred low and middle income countries, to remove patents and intellectual property protection from covid-19 vaccines together with other relevant medicines and technologies needed in the fight against the pandemic. In this way, more than just a few pharmaceutical companies would be given the opportunity to produce vaccines, which means increased production and lower price per dose. It would not cost aid anything if the patent were lifted. On the contrary, aid would be sufficient for more doses. Madam President, I would like I have met wonderful people, both here and out in the world, who want to see a just and equal world where everyone has the same opportunities and freedom to live the lives they have chosen. It is people who raise money in solidarity with the other people in the world. It is people who care for women and girls who have been subjected to cruel rapes only because they live on land that contains natural resources that our multinational companies want access to. They are people who, despite being imprisoned and tortured, continue to fight for democracy. It is indigenous peoples who, although at risk of being murdered, stand up to protect forests that are in danger of being destroyed in order for us to get cheap meat. Aid should go to both protecting these people and building resilient communities that exist for everyone, not just the rich. Then it is important that we maintain the level of aid we have in Sweden and that we encourage other rich countries to do as we do. Then it is important that we continue with such aid that works and at the same time develop new ways of working for an equal world. With aid and by stopping believing that crumbs will fall from the rich's table, we can achieve those goals.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-683	Madam President, I would like We all have a moral responsibility to work to eradicate poverty and oppression in the world. The idea that all people are born equal and free wherever they live and have the same, equal and inviolable value and that we all have a responsibility for each other is a strong motivation for the solidarity and humanity that is fundamental to Christian-Democratic ideology. This solidarity does not stop at Sweden's borders. The overall objectives of Sweden's development cooperation must be to assert human dignity, raise the living standards of the poorest people and promote human rights and democracy. The individual's situation must be the focus of this work. Education, work and greater participation in society, stronger civil societies and greater dissemination of power and resources promote the conditions for sustainable development. The Christian Democrats stand up for the 1% target for Swedish aid, but Sweden's generous aid should be effective. We have therefore criticised the government in the past for channelling large parts of the increased aid budget into a sluggish and often ineffective UN system. This is a reckless way of using tax money and risks undermining the legitimacy of aid policy. Sida's guarantee activity, which is the theme of today's debate, fits all the better into this perspective as an effective way of reducing poverty. In Sida's partner countries, it can be difficult for an entrepreneur to obtain loans in order to start a business. Women and young entrepreneurs in particular may find it difficult to find a bank prepared to lend to new small businesses. But if they get the chance, a small movement can help the family to afford more nutritious food for their children and to go to school. Perhaps you can put aside some money and improve your housing. Guarantee operations have not gone on for many years. Therefore, not enough projects have been completed to draw general conclusions. However, the reports that have been made, not least the Swedish National Audit Office's report that we are discussing today, show that the guarantee business is a very effective way of using aid funds. Sida and Riksgälden are responsible for the bank guarantees, which means that external actors dare to go in with their funds, which means that the Swedish aid money is sufficient for more projects. It is therefore worrying that a large proportion of the funds are not being used. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that the value of the guarantees represents only half of the guarantee framework. Although the needs are great and Sida has received more money from the government, not everything is used. Madam President, I would like There may be something in the reasoning that Sida will become a more credible negotiating partner if not all space is committed. But the money would probably have been much more useful if it had become a workshop of them in any country by supporting female entrepreneurship or young people's visions of small business as a way out of poverty towards greater economic independence. One example is the project in Georgia, which Sida told us about in the Foreign Affairs Committee, where many of the start-ups probably would not otherwise have been able to get credits to build up their business. Through the USD 20 million that Sida guaranteed there, TB was able to go in with the corresponding amount. This is expected to mobilise SEK 440 million, i.e. very roughly a twenty-fold potentiation of the funds invested. Another example is Somalia Credit Guardee Scheme, where Sweden through the guarantee business helps to strengthen the private sector in a conflict country and create jobs and economic conditions for women and young people. At the same time, the country's financial sector is given the opportunity to develop. There, 239 new jobs have been created. It is worth noting that the risk is very limited. Experience has shown that 99% of loans are repaid and can be used in new projects. In this way you can continue to work in the same way. The audits by the Swedish National Audit Office are very important and highlight different areas of improvement. In this case, emphasis is placed on the need to improve follow-up of both short and medium-term performance. Of course, for the responsible management of the allocated funds, the assessment of the expected losses of the State in relation to the guarantees is also of great importance, as measures are therefore taken to minimise the risk of default. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-694	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Swedish Development Agency, Sida, and how Sida works with credit guarantees. The reason for the review is that guarantees have gained increased importance in Swedish development cooperation. We have heard several examples of this from the previous speaker. This is a financial instrument similar to an insurance policy that reduces the risk of lending money. Because Sweden offers credit guarantees, banks and investors can invest in development-related projects that would not otherwise have received funding. It provides new opportunities for jobs and development in poor countries. The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office is that the guarantee operations are carried out in an efficient manner. It considers that the government's governance has been clear and therefore makes no recommendations to the government. For Sida, the Swedish National Audit Office makes recommendations to ensure that it is possible to follow the considerations that have formed the basis for the design of the guarantees. The control mechanisms of credit guarantees are extremely important. Both pre-decision analysis and follow-up afterwards are important. The Green Party is fighting for a world in balance where solidarity and respect for human rights are combined with sustainable development and climate justice all over the world. The Green Movement wants to strengthen international cooperation for the environment, peace, democracy and development. There, aid for the world is the poorest part, and in the light of the pandemic of the past year, resources for reconstruction are even more important. In this context, guarantees can enable people in vulnerable situations to have access to the capital needed to start a business that enables them to make a living. The guarantees allow even those who otherwise find it difficult to obtain loans, such as women and young entrepreneurs, to have this opportunity. In Malawi, women farmers are given the opportunity to borrow for investment while being trained to develop their activities. In Ethiopia, a bank based and controlled by women is given the opportunity to expand its activities further. Through it, female coffee growers have gained increased access to the market. As biodiversity declines and climate change increases, people already living in poverty are most affected. The battle for water, land and other natural resources is already an underlying cause of a series of violent conflicts and wars. Therefore, more needs to be done to properly and fairly manage our common natural resources. It's about our common future. One hopeful example here is the Trine investment Trine where small savers in Sweden can make capital available for the expansion of solar energy in Africa, thanks to Sida's guarantees. It reduces emissions and gives clean electricity to tens of thousands of people. Sweden's foreign policy should function as a whole. The Green Party wants Sweden's commitment to strengthen democracy, human rights and climate and environmental work and reduce poverty. We are seeing in the world today increased poverty and major health challenges in the wake of the pandemic. We see climate change and an ecosystem in crisis. These are challenges that no one can solve for themselves. Of course, we can only do that if we cooperate globally. For the Green Party, it goes without saying that the aid floor should be 1% of GDP so that we can continue to pursue a development policy that makes a real difference and that reaches the people who are in the most difficult situation. As several have mentioned before: not even if all countries that can take responsibility to add 0.7% – or even better took the responsibility that Sweden takes and added a little more – would the money be needed. Therefore, the exchange that these credits can contribute to becomes particularly important. Sweden has a long history of strong commitment to development cooperation and poverty reduction. Today, perhaps more than ever, our efforts are needed. There is a need for those who do not back down when there is a crisis, but stand still and perhaps even move forward. Then it is important that we can contribute to safer ways of investing that will enable more people to contribute where it is needed most to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-705	Madam President, I would like I suspect Camilla Hansén knows what I'm going to ask. It is, of course, about the expenditure target, which puts a brake on the guarantee business. 150 million people have fallen into extreme poverty in the wake of the pandemic, and in line with climate change, the challenges will become even more difficult. It's a really tough situation we're facing. The Moderates want Swedish aid to be based on a four-year financial framework so that we can plan more long-term with a focus on results. A direct consequence of the expenditure target is precisely the removal of guarantees. My question to Camilla Hansén is whether she does not think that we should use all the tools we have to meet these difficult challenges.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-707	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Antoni for the question. Well, I think we should use every tool we have. That is to say that we have a floor that we do not lose in terms of aid. Credit guarantees are a relatively new tool that is being developed. We see in the Swedish National Audit Office's report that development work has already begun before the Swedish National Audit Office's review. There is no strangeness in the need to develop and work with a system like this and that it may take quite a long time. It may also be that perfection is never achieved because this is a complex sector and it is complex relationships in the world that determine how we can help in the best way. What I can't quite understand, Helena Antoni, is why you should choose one or the other. Why not say that we want as good and well-developed credit guarantee systems as possible and proper assistance? Here Sweden is actually a role model in the world by not backing back when the money is needed most.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-710	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that we must have a whole in this. But now we see that it is a real problem. In its review, the Swedish National Audit Office has concluded that Sida's employees remove the guarantee business in favour of pure payments. This, of course, will be a natural order for officials because we in Swedish aid policy are based on payments. I described in my main speech that the needs are not directly reduced in the world. That is why I find it strange that the Green Party is talking about the problem that the results are not given a higher priority. It is only reasonable that you first decide what to do and then decide how big your wallet should be. It goes without saying that the priorities will otherwise be distorted. Madam President, I would like I still wonder why the Green Party does not want to give higher priority to results in Swedish aid. Is it really reasonable for cost-effectiveness to be seen as a problem in the aid system?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-713	Madam President, I would like Swedish aid is based on content. It is evaluated and judged to be among the best and most effective in the world. I don't think you've gotten there by not caring about how to contribute in the best way. That is what characterises the aid that Sweden stands for. If we're into unanswered questions, why shouldn't we use the whole toolbox? It is clear that we should have a clear basis for aid, where 1% is a floor and not a ceiling, and it is clear that we should get credit guarantees that work best. It is, of course, the content and effectiveness of aid that are crucial. The point is, we're not supposed to see how much money we're going to spend. The point is what we need to do and use the money for. But you should know that there is at least 1 percent of bni available for what you need to do. What we see is that there are not enough resources for aid in the world for what we know needs to be done. The credit guarantees are promising and can change up the aid we have in large parts of the world. We have heard excellent examples of this from several speakers today. But how does it relate to not giving the continuity that a floor of 1% of bni provides in the world of aid? That's what I haven't quite understood yet.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-716	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to come to the House today in connection with the report by the Swedish National Audit Office on Sida's guarantee activities. Unfortunately, I will have to begin by drawing a rather bleak picture of our world. We are facing huge challenges. Fulfilling the 2030 Agenda is in an intensive phase, but instead we see record numbers of people being pushed out into poverty and hunger, as well as climate change that continues at a high rate and changes the conditions for all life on the planet. The pandemic has made visible the inequalities in our surrounding world. When trade is broken, economies shut down and countries close down, it hits the very poorest. Global extreme poverty increased in 2020 for the first time in 20 years. Eight out of ten new poor people are in middle-income countries. Losing one's job in low- and middle-income countries is often equal to poverty, not only for individuals but also for families. Poverty leads to children leaving school and to girls being married away at far too young age. The closures have particularly affected people employed in the informal sector. Small entrepreneurs find it difficult to cope with a loss of revenue. As usual, women and young people are hit harder and to a greater extent. The world now needs a global economic recovery. The jobs have to go back. Farmers, craftsmen and producers must have access to markets again. Capital must flow back to and serve development and poverty reduction. But things don't have to go back to the way they were before. What was brought us here where we are now, and we can all agree that it is far from good as it is. When the economy eventually picks up its pace, it needs to come to more. The gaps in and between countries need to be reduced. We need a more inclusive economy that gives us a more equal and more equal world. While we have a health crisis, a poverty crisis and a growing humanitarian need, we continue to face perhaps the greatest challenge for mankind: the climate crisis. Together with the depletion of plant and animal life and increasingly weaker ecosystems on our planet, climate change affects the conditions for all development and therefore the conditions for all development cooperation. The economic recovery must become the green transition. The global economy must become a climate economy. It is time to put people and the plane first, Madam President. All these challenges also affect Sweden and our ability and opportunities to develop our society more environmentally and socially-economically sustainable and make it more open and democratic, more secure, secure and resilient. It depends on how our world develops. Therefore, development cooperation is important and crucial also for Sweden's development. Swedish foreign, security and development policy is therefore closely intertwined and mutually reinforcing. If the global sustainable development goals are to be achieved by 2030, comprehensive financial resource mobilisation and intensive efforts are needed to find innovative methods and collaborations beyond aid. Aid can be a strategic but limited part of the resources needed to achieve global goals, create a safer and safer world, lift people out of poverty and face climate change. There is really no shortage of financial resources globally. However, flows do not come sufficiently to low- and middle-income countries. They do not do enough good for the planet, but to a large extent they do what is harmful. As a result of the pandemic, we have seen a sharp drop in investment to developing countries. One explanation is that the risks have increased significantly. Here comes Sida's warranty instrument in the picture. Here we can mobilise resources to make the economy just more inclusive, equal, equal and sustainable. We can take your risk and share risk and enable the usual financial flows to come out, get more people to benefit from our environment where otherwise it would not have happened and where the market itself could not have done it. Operations are and will become fully integrated into Sida's work and constitute a significant and significant complement to other efforts in development cooperation. It has a large catalytic effect, is innovative and flexible and works in different contexts. We see it when we can provide guarantees for the expansion of solar electricity. We can see that when we give women access to markets in agriculture. We can see this when we can promote health and the development of vaccines and diagnostic methods. We can use the guarantee instrument to help free media operate and grow in environments where democratic space is shrinking. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's review of the guarantee operations is important and timely, and we welcome that review. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the Government, Sida and the Swedish National Debt Office essentially ensure that the warranty operations are conducted in an efficient manner. The government shares that assessment. We see that the demand for guarantees is increasing in the wake of the pandemic. Adjustments have also been made to ongoing guarantees to enable borrowers to overcome the economic crisis. Then, of course, there are risks with guarantees. Operations are still under construction. Demand is high but also requires active outreach in order to find opportunities and use guarantees where they have the greatest development impact. These are complex instruments that take a long time to design and negotiate. One of the challenges is how to monitor the effects. It can be difficult to agree on follow-up when we talk about such long-term processes. However, the Authority will then have to add the need for its own evaluations. Guarantees will have a positive impact on the market so that it will be possible for small businesses, for example, to obtain loans without guarantees from Sida in a given context. It is of course important that we work so that we do not distort markets and crowd out commercial operators. We will enable people and markets to grow. In addition, Sida often combines guarantees with other technical assistance to enable borrowers to receive adequate training to manage a loan and learn basics in accounting. Local banks and financial institutions are being trained to better serve borrowers and perhaps improve on important gender issues. Madam President, I would like The Government sees potential in the use of guarantees in development cooperation to enable increased mobilisation of private capital in support of sustainable recovery and development. That is why we have also gradually increased the guarantee framework. There is also a great international interest in Sida's work with guarantees. The OECD, the EU and the World Bank look at how we do to learn, build and replicate our system. We'll be proud of that. Madam President, I would like I began by drawing a gloomy picture of where the world stands today. But I hope that I have also announced that we are facing opportunities. We have a choice to make. We need to choose to continue developing our development cooperation. We need to work in an integrated way, meet the challenges and lay the foundations for sustainable development. The efforts of Sweden and the rest of the world must be stepped up. With the guarantees, we enable an inclusive, equal, equal and sustainable recovery in the world, public-private partnerships for favourable conditions and important efforts that can be scaled up and reached out to more people. That is what the world needs today.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-741	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for taking the time to take part in the debate. I really appreciate that. Madam President, I would like I apologise if I am a bit of a mess in this debate. I must admit that I feel a little lonely here on the edge of the fight for results orientation. The Government considers that the development cooperation guarantee instrument contributes in a cost-effective and innovative way to achieving the development policy objective. That's how the government's letter begins. What I find strange is that the government does not mention at all the problem of the 1% target. Sida's employees state that the incentives are stronger to use instruments other than guarantees because they are cost-effective and do not generate payments. This is a clear consequence of the current regime, where the expenditure target of spending money is superior to the results. My question to the Government is therefore: Why does the government not comment that the expenditure target leads to Sida prioritising payments over guarantees?
i-8GZg26pq9efGjSCSL2kn4B	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Antoni, for the question! We do not comment on this because that is not the case. As I also believe the honourable Member stated in the debate, this is a new instrument that is under construction. It is clear that traditional grants still dominate Swedish aid. That this is also what dominates the work at the agency is not very strange but quite natural. This is because the 1% target would stand in the way of an effective guarantee instrument, Helena Antoni himself has invented.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-747	Madam President, I would like This is a very strange way of looking at what Sida's employees themselves say. If that is not the case, why do they say it? The Moderates have repeatedly pointed out the problem of the current governance model and budgeting principle with the aim of spending a certain proportion of GDP on aid. Here is a clear example. It's not me who's making this up, it's Sida's employees who are saying this. That the guarantee instrument is cost-effective is thus seen as a challenge by the officials at Sida and not by me. The Moderates want to see a four-year budgetary framework instead of today's twitchy model. With a budgetary framework, cost-effectiveness will not be a challenge in the system. How does the Government justify that cost-effectiveness is seen as a challenge? Is that really a responsible way of dealing with taxpayers' money?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-751	Madam President, I would like Less is more. It's an excellent deal in jazz, but not in aid. It's absolutely devastating there. With less resources, it will be less done. When the Moderates want to cut so heavily in Swedish aid budgets, fewer children get food in their stomachs and access to school. Fewer girls and women have access to adequate health and maternal care. Those who stand up and fight and risk their lives in the shrinking democratic space of our world will receive less protection and support. These are the consequences of moderate aid policy. Nor is spending less money more effective. Nor is it more effective to set our 1% target against the guarantee instrument. There also seems to be a moderate misconception that the goal of Swedish aid is to spend 1 per cent of Swedish GDP on development cooperation. That's not true either. The goal of Swedish aid is to improve conditions for people living in poverty and under oppression. These needs are incredibly large worldwide. In order for us to have some reasonable opportunity to plan long-term and predictable for this, we say that we allocate at least 1 per cent of Sweden's bni in that solidarity. This enables us to have long-term planning conditions and to be in strong partnership with the world's poor. The Moderates want to fail.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-755	Madam President, I would like It is actually really nice to see Per Olsson Fridh not only over a negotiating table in sharp negotiations on how we focus and improve Swedish aid but also in an open debate here in Parliament's Chamber! I promise that it is not precisely because of the focus issue I have asked for a reply, although I maintain that it is one of the more important things we can think about: How do we get focused, more effective and more qualitative Swedish aid? I am especially happy when the Government also says things like that both people and markets will grow. It feels like we could have the same four-leaf pin on the jacket team. More like that! What I want to focus on is precisely what the Government said in its speech on the importance of outreach and of working on with those who will be involved in making the guarantee and those who will benefit from it. It's about the ones we want to invest in the contexts we seem. But there we also have an extension of the work here from home. We begin to go out into the world when we are taking Swedish business and civil society with us. In the report on aid policy that we released earlier this spring, the Center Party proposed the creation of a coordination function that has this particular role – to be the only door in. You should not have to hesitate about where to enter and how to get involved if you as a company or civil society organisation want to be involved in building sustainable development in harmony and in cooperation with Swedish aid. I'm sorry about the government, but this is gonna be a lot of a question. What I would like to hear is how the Government sees further work and strengthen both the link with Swedish society and the impact of Swedish aid. How do we better involve civil society and the Swedish business community? Although we do not do the aid from the Swedish business community, no other countries will pick up the resources we have – the Swedish civil society and the Swedish business community – on the track. If we want this to happen better, it is we from the Swedish side who must make sure that it happens and offer the tools for it.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-762	Madam President and Magnus Ek! This is an incredibly important issue and a challenge for the world right now. I think that Sweden should be able to offer tools along the entire value chains for a transition to equality, gender equality and sustainability in the global economy. This means that aid must be able to dock in other instruments outside the aid toolbox. These are other guarantees, such as the important work of the Export Credit Board, and other export promotion activities. It is about the competence and capacity of Swedish companies, as well as civil society organisations or authorities that are experts and can contribute to this development. How can we find these bridges and connections where the integrity and objectives of different instruments can be protected while at the same time broadening the Swedish offer in lower middle income countries and in low income countries and thus contributing to increased resources? I think that is an incredibly important question for the future. Together with Anna Hallberg, Minister for Foreign Trade, we are currently trying to find and bring together the authorities that are closest to mourning – one might say – to make this work.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-767	Madam President, I would like I think, as the Government says, this is really important. How will forces in politics such as the Party of Government and the Center Party, who want to maintain strong Swedish aid and maintain and safeguard the 1% target, manage to do so in the long term? We now see that there are political forces that want to cut one third or perhaps even half of Swedish aid. We will therefore need to respond more and more to how we make Swedish aid and development policy as effective as possible. Then we need to be able to mobilize all the forces in Swedish society into the world with us. Madam President, I am sorry if this is an ugly word, but sometimes I say that it must be idiotic to be able to catch up on this. Because as soon as we set thresholds and block, we don't get all the power. If we are to be tight, we also know that we do not in all camps have a very high confidence in Sida's openness to other forces that want to be involved in building sustainable development in the world. You don't always have good results. It's something I myself encounter when I talk to Swedish companies and some organisations: There is a gap in to Sida in particular. This will also take time to build trust. Here I very much welcome all initiatives. We've put on the table how we'd like this to look like the Center Party. But any initiative that makes it easy to be able to participate in building sustainable development under the Swedish flag is welcome. That is the next thing in this: I think it will be more important for it to be seen a little bit that it is the Swedish flag. This is something that we have not wanted to do and that we may at times still be a little shy about. But we are living in a reality where we have system competition between countries, which has not least been seen under the coronapndemin. There is preferably a Chinese flag or a Russian flag on vaccine deliveries or oral protection deliveries. If the outcome is then particularly good, you can divide over, but the signal is super clear. Then Sweden and the EU must also be able to tell us what we are doing for good in the world.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-773	Madam President and Magnus Ek! We agree on the important link between both the potential of grants for development and the potential of the guarantee instrument for development and how these can create spaces where other important Swedish tools and benefits can also be part of. We know that when aid contributes to capacity development in low-income countries or lower middle-income countries for example for sustainable procurement, it is also Swedish companies that are good at winning these procurements, as they also have a deep knowledge of these issues. We do not train for the procurement with any kind of condition that it should be Swedish companies that win the procurements. Other countries do. We do not do that, because that is not the objective of aid. But we know that it creates that kind of conditions. The better we get at understanding each other, getting close to each other and talking across sector boundaries, the more these surfaces will grow. I think it's very important. Together with the Nordic countries and with the EU, I think that Sweden plays a hugely important role in being a balancing partner for many low-income countries, who otherwise have to stand and choose between alternatives – the honourable Member mentioned some of them – which we do not really believe in to the same extent and where sustainability may be more of a chimare. I share the picture that this is a future. Let's build a credible and good Swedish alternative along the entire value chains, where our entire external trade and development and international portfolio contribute together to development in the world!
i-Dxs2mVVYLsJ9n6knkSH2uV	Madam President, I would like The debate today is about the government's letter Policy for artists' conditions and a number of exercises from the general exercise period. First of all, I would like to say that Sweden should have a rich and free cultural life. A strong Sweden is built by several different parts. Civil society and association life are crucial, not least in the work to break exclusion and improve integration and to contribute to a Sweden that stays together. Jobs are one of the most important issues for Sweden. In culture and tourism, most new jobs are created, and many young people get their very first job here. The government's letter Politics for artists' conditions contains a lot of text and many obvious things. We agree with the letter but had expected more clear proposals and forward-looking ideas. This has also been pointed out by several of the associations. We Moderates believe that Sweden needs a general review of artists' and cultural creators' conditions. We have said this in the past in the debate and also in motions, and we will continue to point that out as often as we can. Not least during the pandemic, we have seen that many cultural practitioners have experienced major problems and reduced opportunities for jobs and income. I cannot help but mention the very problematic situation that has arisen during the pandemic for our cultural practitioners. All practitioners have been more or less affected, but those most affected are amusement and theme parks, which lost up to 80 per cent of turnover, as well as theatre and concert hall companies, which lost 57 per cent of turnover. With the negative economic impact on cultural operators and the uncertainty as to when the acute crisis caused by closures is over, there is also great uncertainty about the future. From both regional and local authorities, from authorities in the cultural field and from professional organisations, there has been a concern that free cultural life will find it difficult to recover when the pandemic is over. However, many activities have been carried out, albeit in quite different ways. We have seen and seen how digitalisation has made great progress also in the field of culture with concerts and theatre plays digitally and many other attempts to reset instead of cancel. One of the problems, however, has been, and still is, how to get paid by your audience. However, thanks to sponsorship and municipal and regional contributions, society has not been completely exhausted from cultural events. Since 2018, we have had the pleasure of implementing Folk och Kultur, a fantastic collaboration between county theatres, regional music, county museums, Eskilstuna municipality and Region Sörmland. The Culturelift Association is running the project. People and Culture 2021 was fully digital with 12 000 visitors and a very large number of organisers, who, thanks to the digital platform, were able to reach very many. Madam President, I would like I would like to say something about entrepreneurs in the pandemic. 80% of cultural practitioners who have applied for support from the public during the pandemic are companies, and most of them operate as an individual firm. We know that individual firms have been hit extra because of the regulatory framework that made them initially unable to apply for support. This hit companies in the cultural sector particularly hard. They have had problems getting access to general crisis support, and when they finally arrived, it turned out that almost 40 percent of the cultural creators could not apply because their turnover was less than SEK 180 000 a year. When the fresh start after the pandemic comes, it must be sustainable, both socially, economically and environmentally. This means that we need to create long-term sustainable solutions to ensure the regrowth of the cultural industry. We believe in investments in courses in business administration, skills development, investments in UF, Young Enterprise, yes, everything that can make the future more stable for our cultural practitioners and their companies. Although many have had a difficult time during the pandemic, some industries have gone very well, for example the construction industry. What does the construction industry have to do with this? Well, for many years there has been a rule, or rather an agreement, that the municipalities should allocate 1% of project costs to artistic design. Not least now during the pandemic, it is important that we embellish our public space with art, and here the municipalities have a good opportunity to embellish. I know, for example, that Strängnäs municipality, my municipality of residence, is good at this. It is in their municipality of residence that children, young people and adults usually encounter art in their everyday lives. For example, it can be an artistic design on a school yard, in a square or in a retirement home. Madam President, I would like Having been involved in the Committee on Culture for almost four months, I am horrified to see how many authorities and organisations are involved in governance and opinion around our cultural practitioners. The structure of the government in the field of art and culture would need to be vigorously reviewed, and the aim must be for a smaller part of the budget to go to administration and a larger part to practitioners. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, National Exhibitions, Riksantiquarieämbetet, Konstnärsnämnden, Kulturrådet, Tillväxtverket, Vinnova, PRV, Statens konstråd– yes, the list is long. With my own experience as an entrepreneur for nearly 35 years, I see that it is not sustainable for anyone to keep track of all these authorities. Who should I turn to? No, coordination is required here! It must be easier to set up and run businesses, including in the cultural sector. There's a lot to do here. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to summarise some of what I have said and what we Moderates want. We believe that Sweden needs a general review of the conditions for artists and cultural creators. We believe that the state should basically keep a proper arm's length away from culture and cultural practitioners. Culture should be free from political infinity. We believe that the role of cultural operators as entrepreneurs must be strengthened and clarified. We want to see a new and time-appropriate cultural policy for the 2020s. We believe that the structure of government in the field of art and culture needs to be reduced. The aim must be that a small part of the budget goes to administration and a larger part to practitioners. We want to make it easier for civil society organisations to carry out their activities, to develop and thereby contribute to welfare and social cohesion. Finally, we want to strengthen cooperation between civil society, public and private. We need to see far more projects within the IOP, idea-based public partnership. So far, the IOP is only in its infancy. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support both of our moderate reservations, but for reasons of time-saving, I am only in favour of reservation number 5.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-800	Madam President, I would like Since joining this Assembly, the Swedish Democrats have been exercising on new cultural policy objectives. They are the basis of all our cultural policies, hence the reservations we have in today's report. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4. What we are debating today is based on the government's letter on the conditions of artists, a letter on which only we submitted a follow-up motion. The letter describes how the industry is structured, what measures the government has presented under the coronapandemine and how complex the industry is with individual firms, a form of employment that is not always compatible with existing health insurance systems and unemployment insurance funds. This has been quite clear during the pandemic. It is also something that has been talked about for a long time in the industry but that politics has not dared to touch. After this pandemic, I feel like something could happen. We advocate a line that opens up for more people to contribute to contemporary culture. Business, foundations, private individuals, civil society and crowdfunding are some examples of how other countries have succeeded. In Denmark, the cultural budget was reduced to contemporary culture but nevertheless managed to do more culture. The committee learned more about this during its study visit to Copenhagen before the pandemic. So you can do more for less because more people get involved and involved. We should strive in that direction where more people are involved in financing. If it is something we have learned during the pandemic year, it is that culture is heavily dependent on government funding. On the basis of this dependence, there are several aspects to question, which we also have a reservation on. Applying for grants within an already established framework risks making an artist less free in his or her practice and art. The debate on arm's length is something we welcome and we see that more and more are raising their voices about. Let this debate lead to something concrete, for the good of all! Madam President, I would like An issue of concern to me has been our training ever since I took office in Parliament, which unfortunately is not mentioned very much in the letter. I have attended an education myself and I know what a hard time it is. Move away from home early, usually at the age of 16, to a completely new city without friends and acquaintances. Worried housing market, long days, homework, cooking and laundry in addition to Saturday training – it is no wonder that education is not for everyone, and it is no wonder that the profession is not. From my ballet class, no one dances classical ballet anymore. Of those who remain in the dance profession, two are retrained and work as dancers in modern and contemporary dance. Some more are still in the profession of those who joined the modern line. This is what it looks like in the dance. Not everyone has the ambition to continue in the profession, and not everyone gets that opportunity either. For many, it ends at the examination or shortly after, if the body has held and escaped injuries, that is. The big difference between our courses and our neighbours is that our vocational training in classical ballet and modern dance is not under the Opera. In our neighbouring countries you have the Opera's ballet student school or dance student school. In Sweden it is the municipality or Folkuniversitetet that is responsible for the education, and it looks the same regardless of genre. If we are to maintain a high level, we also need close cooperation between our state institutions. It is on stage that you get stage experience, something that is requested on audition but that is often missing from our Swedish students. It has improved, to be said, not least after a review was made – among other things at my school, the Royal Swedish Ballet School. But that's not the only problem. A greater grasp must be taken of all our professional training in performing arts. In dance alone, I can mention six courses that give permission to audition for dance jobs. Is the Swedish dance scene big enough for all new graduates to get a job? Allow me to doubt. There is a need for a review of our vocational training with the aim of increasing competition and thus also the level. If this is the case, the government does not have any proposals. As a professional artist and cultural creator, you should always be prepared to take a job and move on at short notice. Sometimes you have to say no because, for example, you can't find a place to live. That is the reality. As a culturer, you sacrifice a lot, but you usually get as much back through experience and memories. Madam President, I would like We are often portrayed by our political opponents as wanting to close down everything that is modern and innovative. Of course it's all wrong. We are making a different priority in our budget but never a total abandonment of contemporary culture as such. At the beginning of my speech, I gave Denmark as an example of pre-accession countries. We need to learn more from the major cultural countries. We Swedish democrats believe that broader funding for this part of cultural policy would benefit more people. In addition, we are making investments within our budget that will also benefit this industry. It feels important to be told today.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-813	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3 by the Center Party, which concerns a committee motion from the general period of exercise. Madam President, I would like I just put my feet in the air and move them around. It is a famous quote from Fred Astaire, who was one of Hollywood's biggest movie stars in the last century and perhaps the biggest dance star on film of all time. Fred Astaire answered the question of what he meant by his dance. What was his message about the dance? I have no desire to prove anything with my dance, Astaire replied. I just dance – I just put my feet in the air and move them around. That's just how it can be with dance, yes, with culture at all. It's only there for its own sake. Culture has its own value. At the same time, culture provides so much more. Art, culture and education are the core of civilization. That is where our accumulated experience is in many ways unified. There we can understand ourselves, each other, our past and our future. I am convinced that we can all find examples where culture has somehow influenced us, perhaps given a new perspective or created completely new conditions. I myself can give many examples from the time I worked as a dance teacher, examples where both myself and my students through the dance gained experience and taught us something new. It could be anything from small experiences, small discoveries of something new that has not been known, to real life-changing changes in life. Dance and culture built bridges, created a better climate for cooperation and better conditions and overcame obstacles, fear and prejudice. All that without my having any other goal of dancing from the beginning than to spread the joy that dance has meant for me. As an artist, you also have to think like Astaire – not have to prove anything with their artistry but just put one way in the air and move them around, for who knows what it can lead to? Madam President, I would like I would like to try to illustrate by this that culture has its own value but also contributes to so much more and how essential and important cultural freedom is, not least for our professional artists. In the Center Party we see the importance of culture in many dimensions. Its unique value to us as individuals is a part. The importance of culture for health and well-being, for personal and social education and for the challenge of conventions are others. We see how culture contributes to a more tolerant society. The whole of society needs a broad and comprehensive cultural life. We are multifaceted both as people and as a society, and we know that we are attracted and inspired by the most diverse cultural expressions. Culture helps us to see the world around us. Culture can enrich us in all situations of life. It can amuse you. It might worry. Professional artists can act as guides on this journey. They may amuse us, but they can also cause anxiety so that we have to think and take a stand. Artists, formerly called cultural workers, are an often highly educated group in our society that performs important works through its artistic work – a work that does not always get the economic appreciation it is absolutely worth. At the same time, many cultural workers are entrepreneurs and freelancers. The Center Party sees the need to improve their access to social security, for example. Not least, we have seen the need for this during the pandemic. We have also seen during the pandemic the importance of the performing alliances, which are a form that can be developed and strengthened even more. Without free artists, writers, musicians – yes, artists in a broad concept – we have no free and developing cultural life. But to ensure artistic freedom, art also needs to be protected from direct influence when paid for by the public – what is commonly called the principle of arm's length. Madam President, I would like We can see that when culture is publicly funded there is also governance. Cultural policy is always, to some extent, instrumental. From the Center Party we want to use cultural policy to promote a broad and pluralistic cultural life with accessibility for all. But we do not want, and should not, govern what cultural expressions culture then takes or what it should portray and convey. That is not the task of politics. Freedom of culture is basically about freedom of expression. This freedom of expression is important for us to protect. Therefore, it is also important for us that policies contribute to good conditions for a diversity of both cultural forms and perspectives. The free artist and free art have their own value. At the same time, culture provides so much more. As an artist, you have to think like Astaire, not to have to prove anything with his artistry but just put my feet in the air and move them around. For who knows what it can lead to?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-828	Mr President, I would like to We are debating policies on artists' conditions, and I support both reservations of the Christian Democrats. But for time winning, I'm only pressing for reservation 8. It starts a little hesitant and cautious. Mrs. von Meck doesn't want to intrude. She is a cultivated and well-behaved woman. She therefore settles for a few polite phrases about the excitement his music arouses with him. Pjotr Ilyich answers just as politely that he is grateful for her gracious words. Two months later, she writes that there's so much she'd like to tell you but that she's afraid to steal his time. He affirms that this would not be the case. On the contrary, he would feel honored if she wanted to share her innermost thoughts with him. And the next letter from Nadezjda von Meck is not just a few lines long but several pages. On the title page of the fourth symphony, Pjotr Ilyich Tjajkovskij writes: To my best friend. This means Mrs von Meck. And he probably had her to thank too much. In addition to moral support that she could offer, she also offered him financial support. She solves him in one stroke from all his debts. It's something she does with joy and tact. And from November 1877 she supports him with as much as 6,000 rubles a year, which was more than 30 times what a worker could hope for in wages. Pjotr Iljich Tjajkovskij was grateful to note that the patron Nadezjda von Meck found happiness in his music and solved his financial troubles. Mr President, I would like to It is beautiful to talk about artistic freedom, that a culturer enjoys the freedom to use his time to create what he or she wants and how he or she wants to. But I have to say that this freedom for the vast majority is a struggle for economic survival – simply to cope with everyday life. Political awareness and commitment are needed to make decisions that increase the conditions for cultural creators to experience security, especially as the labour market of artists differs from the situation in the vast majority of professions. If permanent work is the norm in the labour market at large, jobs in the cultural sector are usually temporary and unemployment is high. In addition, forms of support and conditions of insurance are not adapted to the specific working conditions and life situation of artists. In order to achieve cultural freedom and diversity in Sweden, these shortcomings in the system must also be addressed and adjusted. Art brings added value to life. It is therefore important that the artists and cultural creators who create works of art, pieces of music, dance works and books that we all enjoy are given good living conditions and opportunities to practice their art without having to stand on the brink of ruin economically. During the pandemic, it has become apparent that cultural workers are more vulnerable than perhaps any other profession. Many cultural creators have suffered from a lack of jobs with a lack of cultural activities. How the government, which is responsible for emergency aid, will get the cultural activities of the country back on track, we see no plan for. We Christian Democrats have called for such a strategy that takes us step by step back to a time of normal order. But the government does not seem to have the ability or interest to give hope and confidence in the future to the cultural workers. And the Minister of Culture seems to have his interests elsewhere. Many artists, and here I am talking about a wide range of cultural workers, are so-called solo entrepreneurs. They have an individual firm or a trading company. At the start of the pandemic, they were not noticed at all. We Christian Democrats were on the government in the spring of 2020, and only in September came support for one-man entrepreneurs in culture. The Council of Finance Ministers, too, today criticised the government for the fact that aid to the smallest companies – individual traders – had come very late. It is serious that the government does not give priority to support for the smallest entrepreneurs. We support the crisis aid which has come later and which has been very helpful, but far from everyone. Just take the cartoonists as one of several examples. They have not reached the criteria for being artistically active, as it is said. Mr President, I would like to In Denmark, it is possible for entrepreneurs to make tax deductions for the art they purchase. It has, of course, increased purchases and thus benefited professional artists. To sponsor culture in this way, and certainly in more areas than art, is something that we need to imitate in Sweden. We Christian Democrats have presented it several times. We see in our country that the public sector accounts for most of the support for culture. It creates a kind of dependency. But above all, culture is reduced, which is worrying because it is so vital for people's well-being. Mr President, I would like to French impressionist Claude Claude also Debussy from Nadezjda von Meck's money. Who knows if we had experienced the great Tjajkovskij of Tchaikovsky's first piano concerto or Claude Debussys's master piece of music Clair de lune and orchestral suite La more without Mrs von Meck's sponsorship? My message today, which I think would change much of the cultural creation in Sweden, is: Unleash the entrepreneurs in Kultursverige, and let sponsorship become tax-deductible!
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-844	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs really good conditions for people's creation, people's understanding and people's education. I want our country to be open and curious, and I want it to be free to explore creativity. There should be good conditions for artists. I think that such an environment is created by action at several different levels and that we have to start fundamentally, with both great things and small details. I believe that the foundation is freedom of expression and artistic freedom. I believe that we sometimes underestimate the importance of this foundation stone and that we sometimes take freedom of expression and artistic freedom for granted. There are threats to this that worry me. There are threats in our surrounding world, and there are threats also in Sweden. The foundation also consists of security. Attacks on artists must be prosecuted. Museums and art galleries should be able to show what they want, and theatres and concert halls should be able to play what they want. Freedom and security are therefore important foundations together, but I also believe that a population that is curious, knowledgeable and has a desire to learn more is an important part of the foundation that is needed. Mr President, I would like to Once the foundation is laid, the next step is to create good general conditions for artists. The pandemic has been heavy. A great deal of effort has been made to mitigate the effects, but one can never cover the financial and personal losses we have suffered over the past year as a result of the pandemic. There must be a long-term understanding for this to be properly built up. There is a need for a re-launch and a re-armament. In these good general conditions there is also a need to create good basic conditions for people to be able to live on their artistry. We have to stand up for artists' right to live off their art. It is about copyright, MU agreements, library compensation, visa compensation and much more. Artists who create must have the right to charge in a digital environment as well. Public support for culture is also part of the general conditions, I think. A continued offensive cultural policy is needed in the coming years. Sweden needs a creative restart, and we need to understand that it is with openness, curiosity and creativity that we best meet the time that comes after the pandemic. As far as public support is concerned, it is important, as many of us have mentioned in the past, that we maintain arm's length – and it can often be even longer than today. As many have done before, it is also good that there are several financiers so that they are not directed solely to the public. I think that the public should have high ambitions, but we also need a variety of financiers. Good conditions for entrepreneurship, good conditions for foundations and good conditions regarding the right to deduct when purchasing art, for example, create a freedom for the artist to choose others than the one who says no to what he or she currently wants to do. It is also good with really good educations, ranging from culture in preschool via folk high schools to university. High ambitions are also good when it comes to social misrecruitment, if we are to succeed in ensuring that Sweden becomes an interesting and creative country in the long term. It is difficult, but we must have the ambition. That's why it's important to start early. Mr President, I would like to During the pandemic, what we already knew has become clear – sometimes painfully clear. Many of the systems we have built up in Sweden and which often work quite well are poorly adapted for the conditions that exist within culture. It is about the Swedish labour market, and it is about the Swedish social security systems. It is about a checkout, about sickness benefits and about other systems that are designed to provide security but that have not worked together with the labour market that exists in the field of culture. For example, artistic entrepreneurship has often been severely affected. It has been difficult to give the support that has been needed, and I am the first to admit that we have not always succeeded. Above all, it was difficult at first, but it may have improved towards the end. It is important to see what has become quite clear during the pandemic, namely that some systems are weak in supporting artistic entrepreneurship. The letter that is now being presented is important and good, Mr President, and now we also need concrete measures to improve in this area. Finally, I would like to return to what I started with: that the foundation is freedom. As Angelika Bengtsson said earlier, SD states in its motion that it wants to change the objectives of cultural policy. It is believed that the objectives of cultural policy should include the preservation, strengthening and enhancement of national identity. What does this mean for artists and for artist politics? What does it mean for artists who do the opposite? I see here instrumental cultural policy in its clearest form, Mr President. I want culture to be free. As a liberal, I protect artistic freedom.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-857	Mr President, I would like to I was going to start by reading a piece from the book One day I'm going to build a castle of money by the actor and author Evin Ahmad. She writes like this: I hated Valhalla Road. Most of all the streets in Stockholm. There was something about being in that environment. Everyone else was so obvious. My back just got smaller and less straight.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-862	I knew more people had gone there before I... But even they were self-evident in their ways. Maybe they had parents who were academics... I don't know. All I knew was that we were the same, but we weren't the same. How do you get into a classroom and tell them you know people who've been shot? Or that your friends' parents work day and night shifts. Cleaning premises throughout Stockholm. The housekeepers at the school got a code of conduct that they wouldn't talk to us who went to school. The cleaners could come and go, but no one said hello. No one noticed them. ... I was thinking about the cleaners because I thought they might as well be mom or dad. Auntie or Uncle... I was disgusted by myself, who walked around there with my yoga mat and would relax and think about breathing. It happened that I was thinking about dropping out of school. Not that I couldn't do it, but because I didn't contribute anything at home. I should be studying something that would generate cash. Real cash so my mom and dad finally had to take it easy. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to This book is about Evin Ahmad, one of the few selected for Sweden's most prestigious acting education at Stockholm University. In view of the social disparate recruitment that currently prevails in artistic education, she must have been quite unique in her career. Unfortunately, the artistic higher education programmes today have a considerable over-representation of students with highly educated parents. For many here, this may not be news. However, the fact that the figure is as much as 57% on the artistic candidate programmes and 62% on the artistic master's programmes must nevertheless be considered a problem – or rather a failure for a society that strives for equal opportunities and equal rights. In addition, according to Statistics Sweden, the proportion of pupils with highly educated parents has increased since 2008. All statistics now indicate that artistic higher education is among the most disparaging in terms of social background in terms of the level of education and income of parents. One can think about how this affects culture and ultimately the stories – the production of film, literature, theatre and art. The famous writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie calls it, that is, the danger of reproducing the same story and the stereotypes that it poses. How much cultural production is today about life in Sweden's sparsely populated areas, about welfare workers or about hard-working people in urban suburbs? Mr President, I would like to For those who grow up without any major economic margins, the risk is that future choices are primarily based on how to secure their income. Dreams, passions, motivations and culture eventually become something that a few can afford. For example, how does a young person who grows up in a working-class home explain to his parents that he wants to become a musician, artist, actor in the theatre, writer or dancer when he knows that the first question that will come is whether it is possible to live on it? Mr President, I would like to Is it possible to live as an art and cultural creator in our country? That is the main issue for today's debate. The last time we took a concerted approach to this matter was 20 years ago, and that is precisely why the letter that the government has submitted to Parliament is so extremely important. Mr President, I would like to During this pandemic, I have spent quite a lot of time talking to various cultural companies, trade unions, institutions, self-employed people and even calls on social media that have generously shared the de facto conditions, the situation before the pandemic and the situation during the pandemic. Indeed, it is impossible to escape the fact that the cultural labour market is characterised by fixed-term and precarious employment. This is clear from all the state investigations in this area, from the government's letter and from the industry's representatives. It is common for cultural workers to combine project employment, activities in their own company and periods when they make a living on scholarships. Art and culture creators work under economically worse conditions than other groups in society with corresponding demands for education and professional experience. The latest investigation is called Artist, no matter what the conditions? and shows that artists have less use of parental allowance, housing allowance and subsistence support even though they have lower average income. Furthermore, artists have to a lesser extent a collective occupational pension. It is with these conditions that art and culture creators have undergone the restrictions and shutdowns of the pandemic. The trade union Klys describes in its referral to the re-starting study of culture that most creators of art and culture have not benefited from short-term lay-off aid, conversion aid or turnover aid because more than half of them are self-employed and have no higher fixed costs and regular income. The targeted support for cultural crises has therefore played an enormous role. But after a full year, of course, both the number of applicants and the needs have greatly increased. According to Musikcentrum Riks, one third of the country's professional musicians and artists have already changed their profession. The future of culture is therefore a bigger issue than that of the reopening and easing of public events. We cannot go back to the politics of the past with this knowledge. It is now high time for the Parliament's Committee on Culture to actually engage in the security of art and culture creators. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats believe that security policy for art and culture creators requires permanent employment. It is not good enough that only 240 actors in the theatre have a permanent job of 3 000 professionals. Permanent employment in cultural institutions has been reduced in favour of administrative staff since the 2009 civil culture inquiry. In fact, politics can change direction here. Areas that require action are the centre formations, the performing arts alliances and the state scholarships. We Social Democrats have been the driving force here to increase the appropriations. At the latest in the autumn budget, we increased the compensation and grants by a total of SEK 43 million. By increasing the number of seats and broadening these alliance activities to more areas than theatre, dance and music, more art and cultural creators would benefit from security between different projects. It would also have access to skills development and support in matching and brokering new assignments. In fact, I am pleased that the Moderates in their motion also raise alliances as a priority area; this can pave the way for long-term politics. A review of state scholarships and copyright remuneration is absolutely necessary. The exhibition fee for visual and design artists, library and speech book remuneration, the phonogram remuneration and the exhibition and participation fee of the MU agreement also require higher levels. Although important steps were taken in connection with the autumn budget, we can continue to work on this. The same applies to aid to free groups and organisers. To this end, stronger copyright legislation is needed, supported by the DSM Directive. Today, well-functioning copyright is of fundamental importance to artists in terms of the progress of digitalisation. The government appointed an investigation last year to review the remuneration for private copying. This will be presented in February next year. Mr President, I would like to This year has shown the major challenges facing artists' access to security systems. Several others here have also been concerned about this. The state grants must become sickness and pension benefits. Individual entrepreneurs must be guaranteed social security by means of simplified health insurance rules and other adjustments to general security systems. Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Tax Agency are also important in this work. In the regulation letter for 2020, Försäkringskassan has received a reporting requirement to report to the government how the agency has worked to develop information for self-employed persons and persons who have a combination of sources of income and forms of employment. The Government has set up an investigation to make proposals on how entrepreneurs' security systems can be clearer, simpler and more predictable. The assignment shall be presented by 15 December 2021. In addition, a study on new and more effective unemployment insurance has been set up for more, based on income, to be reported in June this year. Finally, we think that a new project like Access could be launched, which generated some 1 000 jobs in performing arts and museums in 2006-2009. A modern stage in similar form could contribute to the digitisation of Swedish cultural heritage and archives. Mr President, I would like to Professional art and culture creators are the foundation for a rich and vibrant cultural life. Their right to security will not only promote culture throughout society but also the diversity of stories and perspectives. With security policies, we can counter misrecruitment and allow even those who dream, who have the ambition and who want to get a chance. Evin Ahmad writes in his book: Tomorrow I have the premiere as a professional actor. I told you I'd be okay. The janitor's daughter became an actor. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-894	Mr President, I would like to I couldn't help but take a line. When I listened to Lawen Redar, who represents the government, I asked myself the question: What is most important for the government parties? Is it a high level of the pupils to be admitted to an education, or is it quota? For me, the answer is quite simple – if we are to raise the level of the whole industry, we also need to have a high level of our students. This brings me to the second question, Mr President: why does the government not want to review our vocational training programmes? I think that would be necessary given the number of people we have, with mixed levels of education. Why do you not want to do a review to ensure that you raise the level so that everyone keeps the same, or at least even, level?
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-897	Mr President, I would like to Angelika Bengtsson here paints a picture that it would be a problem to raise the level of artistic education and at the same time promote more people to take part of it. I wouldn't want to put these things in conflict with each other. Does the Swedish Democrats want to do something about the fact that the higher education that we have in the artistic fields has such a serious misrecruitment? I myself, Angelika Bengtsson and Mr President, do not have parents with an academic background. I know what it means to open doors to people in the academic world. I'm passionate about this question. For artistic education, I believe that it would be necessary to raise the status of aesthetic subjects in primary school, reintroduce aesthetic subjects as compulsory in upper secondary school, promote talent, which we have in Vänersborg, among other places, and continue to promote efforts at university level. I do not object to examining how we increase Swedish quality in line with the globalisation that is taking place, but I would certainly not put these things against each other. I want to open doors for more people into college and universities.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-901	Mr President, I would like to I am still waiting for answers on why we do not want to review our vocational training. There is a fairly clear dividing line between the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. We in the Swedish Democrats choose to put the right person in the right place – if you have qualified for a certain education, you should be there for your talent and nothing else. It shouldn't matter if you're a girl or a guy. Nor should sexual orientation or skin colour play any role in education. In the end, this person is supposed to represent the industry in an international world today. It's pretty clear to me. I would like answers to why we do not want to review our vocational training. It must, of course, primarily be for the industry that we have this debate. We must promote the industry so that it can raise the level and actually compete on the same terms. This is not only true in Sweden, because both myself and Lawen Redar know that the industry is international.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-904	Mr President, I would like to With this letter, the government is now taking stock of the security conditions for art and cultural workers. We are, of course, taking a course in which we actually want to promote security on the basis of what we have today. This is the first time it has been done in 20 years. It is our job to make sure that it is a cornerstone of Swedish cultural policy for many years to come to promote scholarships and make them safe, to ensure that more people can benefit from security conditions through alliances and that the centres can be part of conveying assignments and making art and culture even bigger in society. I would say that the forum of culture today has been reduced. It would have to be made a larger part of society, for example by incorporating more culture in health care and care, in welfare, to ensure that culture has a natural place in the workplace. All this can be done, but it requires political action. The most important thing that I want to convey in this debate where Angelika Bengtsson says that we would be in favour of quotas is that we are not actually. That is not true; there is no basis for what Angelika Bengtsson here throws at me. What the Swedish Democrats lack is a class analysis, what it means to grow up with parents without an academic background and what watershed it has become in the artistic educations in Sweden. I believe that it actually also affects cultural production in our country and that the diversity of stories is hampered by this. Not least, we lack stories from Sweden's sparsely populated areas, urban suburbs and so on. We want to promote and open doors to more people, and that requires early intervention in preschool, primary school, secondary school and talent. A review of the whole may also be necessary, so I do not want to close the door to the proposal that Angelika Bengtsson here highlights. However, this letter is about setting the framework for a review, which has not been done for 20 years, and starting to take the policy forward in that respect.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-909	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to strengthen the conditions for professional cultural creators. It is a group that has longer education than the average population but still lower income and lower withdrawals in parental insurance and health insurance, to take some examples. Despite the fact that probably everyone in our country takes part in culture every day and would not want to be without it, it is unfortunately the case that many of those who enable the fantastic experiences cannot live on it. We usually say that what is needed for a stable cultural policy is that it should be based on four legs. The first is the non-profit sector with all associations and organisers, the second is the public institutions, the third is the free groups and the fourth leg is good conditions for artists. Without good working conditions for artists, the whole building becomes unstable, and we cannot achieve the goal that we have set here in Parliament that diversity and artistic quality should shape the whole development of society. If we are to have culture for everyone and throughout the country, it must also be possible to live as a cultural creator throughout the country. During the previous term of office's budget work, we worked with the government to ensure that there were several increases in library remuneration, for example. We have also been exercising on support for collective workshops and on clearer governance to get more actors to apply the so-called MU agreement, to name a few examples. During this term of office, together with other opposition parties, we have pushed for guarantee support, so that we can get the wheels going and more people will dare to hire and start planning for future post-pandemic activities. In its letter, the Government reports on many measures that have been implemented that we agree on. But in several cases I would like the government to have a higher level of ambition. I think it was good that Lawen Redar here added that the Social Democrats are interested in a new access reform. We re-edited it in the autumn budget. We added millions to a major digitization effort to support the archives and museums that would really need it. It would also create many new jobs. In the part of the letter on how to get a greater variety of applicants for the artistic professions, the so-called broader recruitment that we have just heard about here, I fully share the government's problem description. It is very serious that students from the working class and students with foreign background are under-represented in artistic education. In order to tackle this problem, a safer labour market, better economic conditions and more education and training routes are extremely important. I heard the line shift that was here before and wondered if it is that children with parents who do not have higher education are less talented. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is the most talented talents that are going into education. Are you less talented in artistic expression if you have parents who are not educated in higher education? I don't think so. There's something wrong with this system. There's a government investigation going on that looks at how the colleges work with extended recruitment. I hope you can introduce it soon. It's been going on a little too long, I think. It needs to come up with proposals, but I think they will present their results in 2022. In order for us to get to the unfair recruitment, I am convinced that all children need early access to cultural expression. It needs to start early in preschool. Unfortunately, however, it does not seem that the government is prepared to make a major shift in course to get there. I miss it in the letter. From the Left Party, we supported the establishment of a national cultural school centre and the state contribution to the municipal cultural schools. But we now see that more steps need to be taken in this development. We propose 300 million to co-finance the removal of the fees for the cultural school. It is only then that we can say that culture school is open to all children. We are also coming closer to the intentions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to give all children the right to culture. In order to be able to make room for more people in the cultural school, we also need to have more educators. There are queues in many municipalities already now. We regret that the government has not paid the full sum, 40 million, which was set aside from the outset in the Culture School Centre, but has only raised 20 million. There is a great demand in municipalities for more staff. And we know – we have talked about this from all parties here – that there are many cultural creators who do not have a job today and are in line to get into cultural education. Here, too, the government must act quickly. We believe that there is also a need for a cultural boost in primary and secondary schools. We have also exercised that all school students should have the right to take part in two professional stage performances per school year, because in school you reach all children, and that is where it can be most effective to deploy resources. Norway has introduced a national cultural guarantee, the so-called Skolesekken, which lays the foundation for more children to discover the artistic professions. In addition, it creates a better structure, less administration and increased service to the free performing arts groups. In the letter, the government highlights the reform Creative School and how it can contribute in the long term to a broader interest in working in culture. And I agree that important links are created between students and artists in this business. But the problem is that at present, Creative School does not reach all children. We also think it is important to strengthen practical-aesthetic subjects in school. Changes are needed in both upper secondary and primary schools. We know that many schools find it difficult to recruit trained teachers on these subjects today. A survey by the National Association of Teachers revealed that many of today's teachers in the aesthetic subjects work in substandard premises and lack the right resources. If we are to inspire today's young people to become tomorrow's artists, the prerequisites for learning must be good. We say that a targeted cultural boost is needed for school, which would also create more secure jobs for cultural creators. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party would also like to see more clear proposals to make the labour market of artists more secure and the outcome of insurance systems more predictable for those who become ill, unemployed or on parental leave. The government's investment in the performing alliances is certainly a step in the right direction, and the reinforcement that was done during the pandemic has been necessary. However, we believe that there is a need for greater expansion over time and advocate double support for the performing arts alliances. The problem that unemployment and social security have been difficult for professional artists has been known for a long time and became even clearer during the pandemic, as several speakers before me have mentioned here. Over the past year, the Left Party has pushed in several different committees to improve for small businesses and especially for those freelancers who have an individual firm. They ended up outside the first round of business aid, and still many are excluded because they are below the turnover limit for aid to individual firms. We have also proposed that those who have their company dormant should be allowed to make certain efforts to get new assignments and get out of unemployment. There is a need for permanent improvements in insurance systems so that even those who have insecure or low incomes can afford to be part of the unemployment insurance fund, can qualify for it and have the opportunity to receive compensation in the event of illness. We look forward to reading the investigations under way in this area and hope that the government will be prepared to take a bigger look at the structural problems that exist in the cultural field, with inverse recruitment, poor working conditions and an insurance system that is not currently adapted for freelancers and combinators.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-932	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who may be watching this on television or via the Swedish Parliament's webcast! I hope a lot of people do. This is the heart of democracy, and democracy is not something you have but something you need to work with every day. If democracy has been achieved, we must also ensure that it is not dismantled. You have to stand up for it every day. Mr President, I would like to The democratic space in the world is shrinking. In many countries it goes backwards and democracy is dismantled. There are usually different steps along the way when you start taxing democracy. In the first step, civil society is given up and it limits the possibility of working within civil society and receiving subsidies, perhaps from abroad. In many countries, terror laws are passed which prohibit the promotion of the important human rights to be upheld in a democratic country. This could be about women's and children's rights. We've seen this all over the world. The next step is to attack journalists, academics and cultural creators and restrict their right to operate. Many are exposed to threats, imprisonment and torture and are no longer afraid to express themselves, but are beginning to exercise self-censorship. In the final step comes the formal dismantling of the system. Then it's gone very far. Mr President, I would like to Why am I saying this? After all, we have a very well-developed democracy in our country, and we are all so proud of that. But we must always be vigilant about the steps that can be taken even in a democracy such as ours: that we want to restrict civil society and that journalists, cultural creators and academics do not dare to express themselves because there are threats and hatreds in our society that might cause them to self-censor themselves. Then we must act and counter the threat and hatred that we see in social media, for example. Mr President, I would like to Why do you do this when you're trying to dismantle a democracy? What is it you want to get into? Yes, it is power over the word and, by extension, power over thought. That is why it is so important that we protect, among other things, the arm's length distance to journalists, public services and the artsmen of our country. We must ensure that the arm's length is as long as possible, for art and culture should be there in their own power. It's supposed to be there for itself. The art may elude us, make us laugh and relax. But it should also be able to be provocative and make us think new, think outside the box and question. It is very important that we allow it. Mr President, I would like to It has been a tough time, especially for the cultural creators of our country. When the pandemic struck just over a year ago, there was indeed a distortion of who was hit hard. To a large extent, it was unfortunately the creators of culture because they have not been able to operate. By nature, they have not been able to have big performances or other things. It was not equal in where one could restrict the possibility of gathering and where one could continue to gather because we did not have laws for it. Now we have it through the Temporary Pandemic Act that we decided on in January. There are other problems too. We know that our social security system has holes and cracks and that it is not equal. We know that freelancers with individual firms are incredibly vulnerable. In the cultural industry, many are also combinators, which makes it easy to get between the chairs. This flash has really shown us what we need to change. Then it is nice that in this collection we agree that we have to do something about it, and we have also started working on it – from the opposition to the government parties and the cooperation parties, we want to do it better. It is about covering the holes that exist and ensuring that you can act as an artist and be able to take freelance assignments without being afraid to stand without SGI, parental allowance and health insurance. You shouldn't have to do that. A lush culture is important for a democracy, and then you must also dare to be a cultural worker. The government thinks this is important and therefore tries to close the holes you see. The stage alliances are very good, because they catch up with many in the industry and make sure that they end up in the social security system so that they get the security they don't otherwise get. We want to develop this in more areas. Sweden's role in the international community is also important. We have long had good cultural aid and cooperation that has benefited the democratic development of the world through, among other things, support for journalists and creators of culture. We are now building this up even more in a collaboration between Sida and the Swedish Arts Board, which I am proud of, because this is really needed. Sweden also has important cities of refuge for artists. Here they have an opportunity to live and create when they cannot operate in their home countries. Angelika Bengtsson said earlier in the debate that the world of art is international. As a dancer, Angelika Bengtsson knows that it is an international environment, yet the Swedish Democrats want to reduce this. You should not have the international exchange, and you should not give assistance and support to artists outside Sweden. I think it is a pity that you do not see the importance and value that Sweden has in the outside world and the value that an international exchange has for the development of our own art and our own artists here in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is important that, now that we get out of the pandemic, we build back better, as they say around the world. We have to patch up and fix the cracks that we see in our society and that have been flashed now, and we have to make life better for our cultural creators, for the environment and for our surroundings. Mr President, I would like to In these words, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Culture to be approved in the report.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-951	Mr President, I would like to When the Inheritance Fund started in 1928, it was unique in the world and is still so today. The first inheritances came from a seamstress, a weaver and a city worker. When the fund started, money was distributed to less well-off youths, as was said at the time, which made higher studies possible for those young people who did not have rich parents. The fund also distributed money to children's rich families who did not have the best financial conditions. This was before we had either child benefit or study allowance. I believe that many people do not know much about the General Heritage Fund and how the Fund historically, and still today, is involved in developing our society in many different and good ways. Every year, thousands of applications come in. Some examples that have started as an inheritance fund project are maternity care, child care centres, travel services, Bri's helpline, Glada Hudik theatre and more. Each year, approximately 400 projects in Sweden receive financial support from the Fund, and over SEK 5 billion has been distributed to approximately 1,700 development projects over the past ten years. The current regulatory framework states that the projects should be of a non-profit nature and be innovative and developmental for children, young people and people with disabilities. Support shall not be provided for the day-to-day operation of organisations. We Social Democrats welcome the fact that in the new law, which will come on 1 July, there will be a new target group: the elderly. An elderly person counts 65 years of age and above. Here there may be reasons and development opportunities aimed at strengthening older people's participation and contributing to better living conditions. It is very good and will be needed after covid-19, and when more and more have been vaccinated this becomes possible. We hope that pensioner organisations, among other things, will engage in this opportunity to influence and do something developed for the new target group and that they will come in with good applications on 1 July onwards. There will also be changes in the law from, as it says today, innovation to development. The target group that has applied should be involved in the planning and implementation of the project, and the activities should be able to continue after the end of the support. It has been the practice to work like that, but now it comes into the new law. It is also new that in more cases than in the past, successions or insurance amounts relating to the fund may be surrendered to cohabiting couples. The government will also come back on democracy conditions for the fund. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats are calling for all motions to be rejected. We demand approval for the legislative amendments and for our reservation number 6, which we have with several parties. We also have a special opinion in which we develop why we do not think there is a need for an announcement to the government to broaden the General Heritage Fund for the Homeless. According to the Social Services Act, it is the responsibility of municipalities to have a home for homeless people. It is not something that should be run in project form. The government has provided support to municipalities to work with acute homelessness and also provided support to non-profit organisations in their important work against homelessness. In conclusion, I would like to say that it was time to modernise the rules of the General Heritage Fund in order for the Fund to remain relevant and in a legally secure manner to manage the inheritance of persons without dependent relatives and for the General Heritage Fund to continue to be unique and to be an inheritance that helps to develop Sweden.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-962	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report A modern regulatory framework for the General Heritage Fund. The universal inheritance fund has been in existence for almost 100 years. The fund has really helped to develop society in different ways. The Fund shall promote activities for the target groups children, young people and persons with disabilities. It is a good thing that the law is being modernised so that it is both clearer and more transparent for those affected and for the organisations that can apply for funds from the fund. Mr President, I would like to Does the President know what the suicide line, the travel service, personal assistance, Bri's helpline, the Glada Hudik theatre, Circus Cirkör and Friends have in common? Well, they've all been projects started with the Inheritance Fund. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the target group of the fund is now being extended, with the proposed future legislative change, to older people is also good and important. As a strong supporter of strengthening efforts for seniors, we welcome this. It may be projects related to participation, influence and year-long health that will be supported in the future. Mr President, I would like to There is an announcement in which the Riksdag sends to the Government to review further broadening the General Heritage Fund's mission to provide support to foundations and organisations offering housing to homeless people. This proposal comes from a motion by the Liberals, and we support the Moderates. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about why we Moderates think it is particularly important and good with the announcement on housing for homeless people. There is a method called Bostad first, which among other things Helsingborg's city in my constituency is working on. Research shows that Bostad first leads to fewer homeless people and that other pieces of life fall into place when you have a home, such as ending an abuse and creating an employment. Unfortunately, only a little over 20 municipalities are using the method today. The Moderates hope that more municipalities will start working in accordance with the latest research findings, thereby reducing the number of people living in homelessness and with all the vulnerability that it entails. However, the fact that we are now making a decision that the government should review broadening the fund's mandate does not mean that political responsibility is in any way diminished. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about democracy conditions. The independence of non-governmental organisations from political governance is crucial for them to fulfil their important role. But that does not mean that civil society actors are outside the laws, rules and standards that apply to society as a whole. On the contrary, civil society actors have a great and important trust to manage and nurture. This applies in particular to those operators who receive State aid for their activities. In the past, anti-democratic organisations have received funds from the fund; it must never happen again. Consider that this is money that people have worked hard to get together for a lifetime. Then we must be able to be the guarantor that every penny comes right. Therefore, we Moderates find it sad that the government has not introduced a statutory democracy condition and that it is so slow in the matter. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support Amendment No 4 on democracy conditions. I also support the committee's proposal for an announcement under paragraph 6.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-974	Mr President, I would like to We have a bill on the National Heritage Fund on our table. The Government proposes in the bill that the regulations for the General Heritage Fund should become more modern. The purpose of the fund is to continue to be relevant and to be able to manage the inheritance in a legally secure manner by persons who have no dependent relatives. Modernisation aims to make the law more clear and transparent for those affected by it, but also for those organisations that can apply for funding from the Fund. The new Act is proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2021. Mr President, I would like to In large part, we welcome the modernisation of the regulatory framework of the General Heritage Fund. However, we see some shortcomings in the legislative proposal that we believe should be addressed. We believe that application would work better if the government's proposal had contained the measures we propose in our accompanying motion. I shall address one of our proposals that is particularly important from the point of view of fairness and equality. Mr President, I would like to We believe that it is a good thing to extend the target group of the General Heritage Fund to include older people. The new target group will increase both public interest and trust in the General Heritage Fund. It should be borne in mind that the fund's capital has grown significantly in recent years. As a result, there is more scope for promoting activities in favour of additional target groups and thus contributing to positive societal development. Mr President, I would like to However, we reject the Government's proposal that a maximum of 10 per cent of decided funds may be allocated to projects for older people. We therefore share the view of several consultation bodies that the Inheritance Fund delegation should be able to allocate more funds if they consider that the need for projects for older people and project applications received justifies an increase. Of course, it is important that projects for the current target groups are not sidelined. However, setting an absolute limit of 10% means not taking into account the need for projects for older people. The target group for older people is also generally given lower priority than the current groups. In this case, it can easily be understood that the target groups of the General Heritage Fund have different values and that they are treated differently. That would be very unfortunate. In the long run, it could also counteract the positive impact that a new target group may have on the activities of the General Heritage Fund. In addition, the investigation explicitly mentions that the Inheritance Fund's finances are such that any need to prioritise between urgent purposes is no longer necessary t. That is why we believe, Mr President, that the Inheritance Fund delegation should be able to allocate more funds to projects for older people than the 10% proposed in the legislative proposal. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we also believe that a common database for contributing organisations should be established. This would provide a better overview of the state's contribution to the civil sector. I commend our reservation, number one.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-981	Mr President, I would like to The non-profit sector in Sweden is fantastic. It is not in that way that the public is the only thing in society, but vice versa. Civil society was only when we people came together to do things for the common good. A long time later, a private sector was likely created, where people wanted to be paid to do a favor. Even much later, the public sector came, because we realised that what we can do together with each other was no longer enough and that a private sector was not enough. We also need to spend common tax money on a public sector in order to expand and make the necessary welfare services. Mr President, I would like to I would like to make this introduction because it sometimes seems that the voluntary efforts of civil society would have arisen now. That is not the case at all. It was civil society that started most of the activities. Member Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg highlighted some examples of this. The General Heritage Fund has also been involved in supporting and enabling the emergence of such activities. What happens in non-profit associations and organisations is therefore extremely important for Sweden. They finance their activities through members' contributions and support in different ways. It arranges activities, etc. a man also receives a lot of public funding, from municipalities and regions but also from the state. In addition, you can apply for support from the General Heritage Fund. It has, as several Members have pointed out, been created through successions, wills and other things over the years. That is now a considerable amount of money. Many projects have been implemented and implemented over the years thanks to support from the General Heritage Fund. There has been a need to modernise, simplify and change legislation. I welcome the proposal and the legislative proposal that we have on the table. The Christian Democrats are calling for the bill to be approved. However, I would like to highlight a few points. One is that it is an advantage that the word 'innovative' has been removed, Mr President. For a long time, the requirement for aid has been that it must be innovative activities. Sounds good, doesn't it? We're gonna give money to what's developing, right? Yes, but for those of us who have been active for a long time in the nonprofit sector, it is in some way unconsolable that we cannot get money to do what we are good at, but should constantly come up with something new. However, there is a value in developing, maintaining and strengthening what an organization is good at. I think that the government does well to remove the demand that it be innovative and to ensure that you can get support for what you actually do and that you develop and do in a good way today. The target group is children and young people and people with disabilities. However, as Members here have said before, the group is now expanding to include older people as well. 10% of the money is set aside for this. That is a wise move. After three years we can then follow up and see if the level is reasonable or if it needs to increase. The reason for being a little cautious is that this should not be perceived as crowding out other activities. We know that the fund's accumulated funds have increased, and there is scope for the inclusion of activities aimed at the elderly as well. I therefore believe that the division is wise. I would also like to mention that a united committee has made an addition, namely that foundations and organisations offering housing for homeless people should be able to apply for support for activities of various kinds. Yes, you say, that should be a municipal responsibility. This was also mentioned earlier by one Member. That's right, isn't it? However, we have significant shortcomings in the case of homeless people. The issue has not been at the top of the government's agenda. Bets for them have been far behind. Although there is some support, there is no clear or coherent strategy. Above all, it does not support the methods that have an effect. I am very pleased that Ulrika Heindorff highlighted Bostad first. It is a method that has scientific support for its effectiveness. People who are homeless but who may also have an addiction disorder or something else need to have their home only where you can lock the door on the inside, take care of yourself and your home. It is important to then be able to deal with the other things that you also need help with. The difference is to live somewhere where someone locks the door on the outside. It's an important difference with housing first. I am pleased that the committee has taken a few steps in agreement, but by also raising the issue to the General Inheritance Fund, perhaps more forms of work can be developed. This is a very good proposal from the Liberals, and the Christian Democrats support it. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-fb296b02bd00ef1b-992	Mr President, I would like to The general inheritance fund is very well used money that people without close heirs have left behind. If they knew how the money has come to be used, they would surely be very pleased about it. The Inheritance Fund will soon be 100 years old, and it has evolved over time. What I want to mention is that it was over 20 years ago that the pensioners' organisations in the Government's Pensioners' Committee raised the issue of extending the Inheritance Fund area in order to also provide money for projects involving year-long people. Then it did not fall into very good soil, because it might crowd out projects involving children, young people and people with disabilities. What then happened was that pensioners' organisations kept repeating their wishes. You got money for some projects. You could get money if it were year-rich people with functional variations. I think it became apparent to the government that it was not a good idea to slow down an expansion. However, we will now decide on the renewal of the Fund with this extension. Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg expressed earlier hopes that pensioner organisations would now start to come in with projects. But they have ideas that have hatched during these 20 years! They're coming, be sure. As a Liberal, I am also very pleased with the announcement of an extension to the area of homelessness. The municipalities certainly have a responsibility, but the municipalities also have responsibility for the care of the elderly and for the welfare and welfare of children and young people. Here, however, it is a question of making up new ways. The civil sector comes in as a very important thinker, engine, in development. Homelessness is a serious problem, not least for people with substance abuse names. I am therefore pleased with the announcement. Of course, municipalities do not escape their responsibilities in terms of homelessness, care for the elderly or the needs of children and young people, but the civil sector can, with its sense and knowledge of what it really looks like, bring innovation to society. The introductory speech showed how the civil sector, with the help of the Inheritance Fund's money, has gone ahead and provided a basis for what we are taking for granted today in the field of social services. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
