i-45175ea3013b547a-0	I should like to inform you that the group leaders and I have agreed on a recommendation that everyone present in this House should wear masks from today. There are masks in the chamber foyer, where you can provide yourself with a two-pack or a four-pack. When you speak in the speaker's chair, you do not need to wear mouthguards, nor in the replicator seats. Therefore, there are waste bins on display. If you have spoken, you can take a new mask. I would like to remind you of the importance of also spreading your hands when changing mouthguards.
i-45175ea3013b547a-2	Mr President, I would like to I want to start this year's foreign policy declaration by saying something that is obvious to all of us: politics matters. This year it is 100 years since women were allowed to exercise their right to vote for the first time in a parliamentary election. It was the milestone that made Sweden a democracy. Democracy is something that we take for granted but which is denied a majority of the world's population. The government is working for a world order based on international law where rules and agreements go ahead of the strong one's right. With our clear security policy line, our solidarity aid, our climate and environmental investments, our feminist foreign policy and a strong trade policy, we not only safeguard our own country but contribute to peace, security, development and democracy globally. Mr President, I would like to The Covid-19 pandemic has claimed over 2 million lives worldwide. Sweden has pushed for fair global access to vaccines against covid-19. Through the EU, we are part of the global vaccine co-operation Covax. The EU has mobilised EUR 853 million for this cooperation and is thus the largest donor. Sweden has contributed SEK 200 million and participates in the work to strengthen Covax's ability to access vaccines. In order to ensure vaccine availability to EEA countries, Sweden has undertaken to re-sale vaccines to Norway, Iceland and Switzerland. Mr President, I would like to As Chairman of the OSSE in 2021, Sweden defends the European Security Order based on international law and the UN Charter. We want to clarify the link made within the OSSE between respect for democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law and security within and between states. The unresolved conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakh, Ukraine, Georgia and Transnistria are examples of the consequences of the breaches of the European security regime. These challenges also affect Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena. In an uncertain world, the EU should be a strong voice for peace, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. A well-functioning EU is a prerequisite for Sweden's well-being. Most of our trade is with other EU countries, and at EU level we can strengthen the green transition and secure jobs. The EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement provides a basis for an important future partnership. The Government intends to deepen Sweden's and the EU's relationship with the UK also in the field of foreign and security policy. Nordic cooperation is important but is subject to severe trials during the covid-19 pandemic. Cooperation with the Baltic countries is also of great importance for our region and our common security. The government has presented a new strategy for the Arctic region. The countries of the Western Balkans are an important part of the EU's neighbourhood. Turkey plays a central role for the EU. We will support the democratic forces in Turkey and be clear in our criticism of human rights violations in that country and Turkey's actions in its neighbourhood. The UN remains a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy, and we continue to be a key voice within the UN. In the follow-up to the UN's 75-year declaration, which was adopted following negotiations led by Sweden and Qatar, we showed that an ambitious way forward can be agreed to strengthen the UN. The UN's efforts to alleviate distress and prevent hunger cannot be overestimated. As one of the world's largest donors, Sweden supports the UN's work in several humanitarian crises. Last year's World Food Programme Peace Prize is proof that the UN's work makes a difference. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on cohesion in the EU and cooperation on a broad front – in the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region, within the UN and the OSSE and with NATO. A strong transatlantic link is important for the security of Europe and America. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We should therefore be able to give and receive support both civilian and military. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. We shall contribute to long-term stability and security in our part of Europe. The security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and in Europe has deteriorated over time. In response to this development, there is a historic commitment to total defence and the continued strengthening of our international defence and security cooperation. Through our participation in civil and military operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali and Ukraine, Sweden contributes to security, prevents conflicts and creates conditions for sustainable development. This commitment is an important part of our solidarity policy and contributes to common security. Mr President, I would like to At this time, it is more important than for a long time to pursue a feminist foreign policy on women's and girls' rights. Several other countries have now followed Sweden's example. The Government has provided support of more than SEK 260 million globally to counteract the effects of the pandemic on activities linked to sexual and reproductive health and rights. Sweden has taken on a leading role in the global coalition for economic equality. Sweden will work for women's and girls' economic empowerment through the introduction of social and economic reforms and gender equality into the labour market. During Sweden's Presidency of the OSSE, women, peace and security are an important priority. Mr President, I would like to The current pandemic is affecting our consular work. During the spring of 2020 a consular work was carried out where about 9 000 stranded Swedes through 400 transports were taken home with the help of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. In the difficult consular cases, intensive work is ongoing in the foreign administration. We always look after the individual's best interests and will never give up our efforts. Mr President, I would like to The United States has chosen a new president. His statements on cooperation with allies and partners are important to us in Sweden and the EU. There is a wide range of areas where we can renew and deepen our cooperation, such as security policy and multilateralism, trade, green transition and new technologies, democracy and gender equality, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. During spring 2021, the government plans to decide on new strategies for development cooperation in Latin America. The government is following the aftermath of the demonstrations in Chile and the work on developing a new constitution. Sweden is working through both the EU and the UN to support a negotiated political solution in Venezuela. Mr President, I would like to The government stands up for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and for each country's right to choose its security policy path. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea is unacceptable. These violations of international law undermine the European security regime and justify continued sanctions against Russia. Where we have common interests, we can and should cooperate with Russia. An example of this is the Council of the Baltic Sea States, where cooperation with Russia works well. At the same time, we are concerned about the negative trend in human rights and civil society's space in Russia, and we condemn violations of international law and poisoning attacks. The falsified elections and the brutal abuse committed by the Belarus regime are unacceptable. Together with the other EU countries, we have imposed targeted sanctions on those responsible. The challenges facing the EU's eastern neighbourhood over the past year make the EU's engagement in the region through the Eastern Partnership more urgent than for a long time. Mr President, I would like to A year ago I visited Yemen. It was clear how appreciated Sweden's commitment is. Sweden continues to provide comprehensive humanitarian assistance to Yemen's hard-tested population as well as support to the UN-led peace process. The conflict in Syria remains one of the most serious crises in the world. The only way to peace in Syria is through a political solution. The government defends the relationship with both Israel and Palestine. Sweden is working with the EU to resume meaningful negotiations between Israel and Palestine and a solution based on international law, where two states can live together in peace and security. For non-proliferation and the security situation in the Middle East, it is essential that the nuclear agreement with Iran is maintained. Iran must return to full compliance, while the United States is re-joining. We also underline the serious human rights situation in Iran. Sweden has a long and comprehensive commitment to peace, democracy and development in Africa. In Ethiopia, the Tigray conflict risks undermining the country's democratic development and having extensive regional consequences. In Sudan, the political transition continues with a civilian-led transitional government after 30 years of authoritarian rule. The security situation in the Sahel is very worrying. In August, a military coup was conducted in Mali. Now there is a transitional government in place, and general elections will be held in 2022. Sweden contributes to security and development in the Sahel. Mr President, I would like to Asia's growing importance offers opportunities for trade and investment, green technologies and innovations. The government is developing its cooperation with countries such as India, Japan and South Korea. Sweden also has a role to play in conflict resolution and disarmament on the Korean Peninsula. The coup d'état in Myanmar is unacceptable and something the government condemns. China's international importance is increasingly affecting Sweden and Swedish interests. Sweden and the EU see global challenges that we can only deal with together with China, such as climate, health and a fair free trade regime. At the same time as the cooperation is important, we act against security-threatening activities directed against Sweden and Swedish companies. We are conducting a straight dialogue with China, where human rights and freedom of expression are key elements. The government is particularly concerned about the dwindling democratic space in Hong Kong. The human rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents must be respected. Sweden needs to strengthen its knowledge of China. In January this year, the National Knowledge Centre on China started its activities. The government welcomes enhanced trade cooperation with China and welcomes the agreement between the EU and China on an investment agreement. Mr President, I would like to It is worrying that democracy is being challenged in many parts of the world. The growing authoritarian forces are often linked to economic and social divides. Through the drive for democracy, 600 activities have reached 1.7 million people. We have held 70 democratic talks, in which we have given space to civil society, trade unionists, LGBTQ people and women's rights fighters. Swedish democracy aid has increased in recent years. The Internet has opened up new opportunities to participate in democracy but has also lowered the thresholds for those who wish to restrict democracy and freedom of expression. Therefore, the government will invite to a dialogue with platform companies to discuss how they, together with civil society, can counter threats and hatred, strengthen democracy and protect human rights online. Anti-Semitism on social media is one of several important topics when the government invites the Malmö International Forum for Remembrance of the Holocaust and Combating Anti-Semitism. In order to meet the shrinking space for trade union organisations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to carry out training efforts in this area. The Swedish Global Deal initiative promotes good industrial relations. Organised crime is a major challenge for our society. The violence that takes the form of shootings and blasts is only part of organized crime. Often organised crime has clear international links. Work is now under way to see how our foreign authorities can support law enforcement. Five embassies have been assigned a special mission to develop the capacity of the foreign administration. Mr President, I would like to The threat of nuclear weapons is a matter of destiny. The Stockholm initiative is one of the key political initiatives for nuclear disarmament. The decision of the United States and Russia to extend the New Start Disarmament Agreement is most welcome. The world cannot afford a new nuclear arms race. Just over a month ago, the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons entered into force. I have written to the UN to confirm Sweden's intention to participate as an observer. Sweden's disarmament policy will continue to be based on a strong knowledge base. Therefore, at the government's initiative, a knowledge centre for nuclear disarmament is established at Uppsala University. Fully autonomous weapon systems that do not meet the requirements of international law, so-called LAWS, are a future scenario that must be avoided. With an effective international ban as a goal, Sweden is actively involved in the important work carried out within the framework of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons. Sweden will be the leader in the implementation of Agenda 2030. It is our roadmap towards a stronger, more resilient and sustainable world. The Government's work for an international sustainable enterprise continues. Sweden has effective world-class aid, while the government stands by the 1% target. Mr President, I would like to The climate crisis, the loss of biodiversity and depletion and degradation of the oceans are global and cross-border issues that affect us all. They risk irrevocably changing the conditions for humanity and exacerbating hunger and increasing the number of conflicts and pandemics worldwide. Next year, Sweden will host the Stockholm+50 global high-level meeting. Sweden will continue to show leadership through our own transition to a fossil-free society and through our climate diplomacy. The Government has commissioned Sida to strengthen its work with measures that contribute to the sustainable use of biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to The Government strengthens the promotion of strategic investments in Sweden to strengthen our competitiveness. Sweden should work to strengthen the link between the Paris Agreement and trade. Swedish trade policy shall contribute to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement and to sustainable development and green transition. The government wants to see more ambitious sustainability chapters in the EU's free trade agreements. Swedish companies have great opportunities with their presence around the world but also a responsibility to strengthen respect for human rights. We will highlight how the international regulatory framework for export credits will contribute to achieving the global sustainable development goals and the Paris Agreement. Important factors in managing the pandemic have been ensuring access to personnel, equipment and medicines. This is why a well-functioning internal market with free movement and free trade is crucial. Mr President, I would like to I began this year's foreign policy declaration by looking back, so let me conclude by looking forward. We are facing a decade of opportunities. Technological progress is evident in the green transition and in a record-fast production of vaccines. Social progress has meant a global prosperity increase in which millions have been lifted out of poverty. What must now follow is a political upheaval, because without politics and without democracy and freedom for people, technological and social progress is fruitless. So let me conclude with a piece from the American poet and young black woman Amanda Gorman's appearance at Joe Biden's presidential installation in the United States: But while democracy can be delayed for some time, it can never be defeated forever. In that reality, in that confidence we trust, for as we look to the future, history has its gaze on us.
i-45175ea3013b547a-69	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak are two people who were not mentioned in the foreign declaration this year either. These are two unique and special consular matters, and their names deserve to be said from the Parliament's pulpit, including by the country's Foreign Minister. Mr President, I would like to Let me lead in proof that this government is slipping around in terms of security policy formulations in a fundamentally serious way. Evidence number one reads: The security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and Europe has deteriorated over time. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. This formulation is formulated in broad political agreement in the Defence Committee. It has made the government its own, because it is on page 26 of the defence policy bill that the government presented and on which it was decided last December. Evidence number two appears in the foreign declaration: The security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and Europe has deteriorated over time. In response to this development, there is a historic commitment to total defence and the continued strengthening of our international defence and security cooperation. There are two completely different formulations – one in the governing document, the political consideration of the defence orientation, and the other in the foreign declaration. Mr President, I would like to Doubleness is ambiguity. Can the Foreign Minister explain which line is in place?
i-45175ea3013b547a-76	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wallmark for the question. I will begin by commenting on Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. Of course, the government continues its tireless work in these two and other consular cases, as I clearly said in my introduction. We believe that it is only by never giving up our efforts that we can possibly achieve success, because they must be released. We also have the cases of Djalali in Iran, Ola Bini and several other Swedes who are imprisoned and who we are doing everything we can to get free. No one should doubt that the Foreign Service is doing everything to get these Swedish citizens released. As far as security policy is concerned, our line is solid. Sweden is militaryly non-aligned but cooperates with different countries, mostly Finland, and with the UN, the EU, the OSSE and NATO. There have been no changes in recent years, as Hans Wallmark says. There have been some rhetorical changes but no changes in substance. What Mr Wallmark is proposing, on the other hand, is a change in substance, namely a NATO option, which the government opposes.
i-45175ea3013b547a-80	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the government is slipping around. What is the firm line, the one now proclaimed in the foreign declaration or the negotiated position of the Defence Committee, most recently repeated in the defence bill? The latter states, as I said, that it cannot be ruled out that military forces or threats of them may be used against Sweden either. These are not rhetorical formulations. These are fundamental structures in Swedish security policy. Mr President, I would like to As the government is now slipping around and also rejects a parliamentary majority that stands behind a NATO option, it is reasonable to invite broad party deliberations. Security policy is too important for free-riding.
i-45175ea3013b547a-83	Mr President, I would like to The government does not engage in free-riding or slurring. But what the Moderates are doing is pushing through a NATO option against the will of both the Social Democrats and the Green Party. It is a concrete factual change, unlike words that change that do not involve factual changes. The fact that the government in the defence policy bill states that Sweden is not in any military alliance means no change in relation to the current defence decision-making period. The same wording was found in the defence policy proposal 2014/ 15. Thus, no change in the security policy line can be seen from this. The differences that exist in different wordings are therefore not a substantive change to the security policy line. However, to signal to the outside world that we are now considering membership of NATO would be a definite change in our line and irresponsible.
i-45175ea3013b547a-86	Mr President, I would like to The Foreign Minister mentioned in his foreign policy statement that it is now 100 years since we received universal and equal voting rights for women in Sweden. This is something I am convinced that everyone in this House is happy and proud of. In a global perspective, Sweden has been at the forefront of this. Nevertheless, the government continues to spend money on organisations that stand for anything other than women's equal rights. For example, during nine years, Sida spent 627 million on Islamic Relief, one of the Muslim Brotherhood's two cashiers. And the government continues to spend money on this. In the United States, support of hundreds of thousands of dollars for Islamic Relief Worldwide was ended after all the extensive and recurring scandals surrounding anti-Semitism and more. It is not enough that Islamic Relief occasionally replace their Board, which they do constantly after every scandal. It is a rotten organisation that stands for anything other than what Swedish foreign policy should stand for. In view of this, why does the government continue to channel tax money to Islamic extremists?
i-H4btUBy6M9EUV9SZWfz5iP	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for the question! The issue is about Swedish cooperation and development policy. Unlike the Swedish Democrats, we stand up to continue with the 1% target and have effective aid and many partners. The various organisations with which we cooperate are well controlled and, above all, the activities are controlled in order not to run the risk of getting into problems with, for example, corruption or the like. The organization that Markus Wiechel brings up is called Islamic Relief Worldwide and has in the last three years come out well in evaluations certified according to Core Humanitarian Standard. An evaluation process is currently underway within Sida regarding Islamic Relief Sweden and other organisations, whose conclusions I cannot anticipate in this House today. It is important that the claim is examined and can be assessed. The circumstances on which a decision is based shall be concrete and possible to respond to and verify. As regards specifically Islamic Relief, it can be said that the organisation has undergone more than 500 audits and audits in the last ten years. Following recent events, the Charity Commission has launched a so-called compliance case, and the result of it is in about a month. Finally, let me repeat that Sida is responsible for monitoring and reviewing its partners and that the government should not detail which partners Sida should have.
i-45175ea3013b547a-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. As the Foreign Minister will know, I personally am a strong supporter of international aid. For many years, the Swedish Democrats have been responsible for the most generous aid policy in the Swedish parliament, following the government's settlements. In recent years we have had to re-evaluate this as a result of the problems we see in Swedish society and what these problems have ultimately caused in terms of aid policy. Here, the important thing is 1% of aid and the objective is to channel enough money out of the country. I don't see what self-worth there is in it. The most important thing is that it is effective and useful. We now see that the money goes to at least one organisation that clearly does not represent the values on which Sweden's foreign policy should be based.
i-45175ea3013b547a-97	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a pity that the Swedish Democrats have changed their minds, because it is just as we always said to the Trump government: If you don't think it works in an organization, the way is not to withdraw, but the way is to change. This is why both the Government and Sida have continuous evaluation work to ensure that Swedish aid does not go to anything corrupt, that it is used for what it is intended to be used for and that it is effective and based on our values. There is a very extensive work going on there, which I think is working well.
i-45175ea3013b547a-98	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the Foreign Declaration 2021! There are several parts of it that we can, of course, agree with. I note the markers when it comes to the SRHR, which we all agree on and think are important. I also think that the efforts and attempts made by Sweden to find a solution to the Yemeni conflict are good. And the Eastern Partnership, where we have a strong commitment, is of course important for Sweden. The marker on Ukraine is, of course, also important. For my part, I could make more comments, Mr President, but I would also like to highlight what we do not agree on. It's about security policy. Why do the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government not want to ensure broad political support for Swedish security policy? Why does the government insist on saying that the security policy line is solid, even though there is no support in Parliament? This is a violation of the tradition of inviting talks and trying to build a consensus on an important issue of security policy. Why does the government choose not to listen to the fact that there is now a new situation in Sweden? We'd like to see an invitation. Together, we can create clarity, as we have done in the past. Security policy is now a violation of the tradition that Sweden has had – to seek consensus and consultation. It is the government that is shaping foreign policy and security policy, and then it is the government that is ultimately responsible for ensuring that there is broad support.
i-45175ea3013b547a-101	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question! I am pleased that there are many areas where we agree. There are established forms of dialogue and anchoring on security policy issues. The defence committee plays a central role in this, of course. We value the broad consensus that has been reached in the defence preparation in the analysis of security policy. In addition, the Government will continue to make use of the possibility of appearance in the Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee and Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, and to hold talks and inform about the Government's considerations.
i-45175ea3013b547a-103	Mr President, I would like to That's not the tradition we have. From the 2014 Government Declaration until now, the government has chosen to act on its own. From December 2020, there is no longer a majority behind its security policy line. Then it must be in a responsible government's mission to try to regroup Sweden. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to invite him to a wide-ranging discussion. We also want to see a report on Swedish security policy that can be dealt with in the same way as in Finland's tradition.
i-45175ea3013b547a-105	Mr President, I would like to When Kerstin Lundgren and Hans Wallmark demand that the government call for security policy dialogue, I must ask whether the best way really is not to take advantage of the opportunities that we already have in the government. Just look at, for example, how the Moderates have handled invitations to various conversations. The migration talks were dropped in July 2020. The Energy Agreement was dropped in December 2019. They dropped out of the gang talks in September 2019. They dropped out of the Defence Committee in May 2019. With regard to the agreement on high-speed lines, the Alliance presented the construction of Sweden, which included high-speed lines, and then changed its mind. As for the housing talks, the entire Alliance left them. I think it is better to use the ways we already have in Parliament, which works well. When the opposition pushed through the NATO option, it was not preceded by any attempt at dialogue with the government.
i-45175ea3013b547a-107	Mr President, I would like to As we hear in the foreign policy declaration, the Social Democrats are happy to give their best consideration to their international commitment, especially in difficult times such as this pandemic. Therefore, it is particularly strange that a social democratic and environmental party government actively discourages the production of cheap and accessible vaccines against covid-19 to the world's poor. Sweden and the EU have actively voted in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, against India and South Africa being given the opportunity to produce cheap vaccines. Only by more people receiving vaccines will the pandemic be shortened. 90 of the world's countries are completely without vaccines. Instead, the profits and patents of the pharmaceutical industry are put first. Sweden's rejection of more and cheap vaccines has caused many to react, including the former Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, several civil society organisations and researchers on global health. Sweden could do more. Additional resources allocated to the international vaccine co-operation Covax are far from sufficient. That should be ten times as much. And above all, it should be additional, that is to say that we do not push away other important aid. Nine out of ten people in poor countries will not receive any vaccine in 2021. Only by increasing the production of cheap vaccines can we ensure that the whole world receives vaccines so that we can put an end to this devastating pandemic. Then rich countries can't put sticks in the wheels for the rest of the world. Why are pharmaceutical companies' profits more important to the government than vaccine doses to the world's poor? Why is Sweden voting against more vaccines being produced?
i-XVbvUhu7LWFBCwGTW4dakC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! Covax is the collaboration we have for global vaccines. It was already promised on 22 January that vaccines would start to roll out to low- and middle-income countries in the first quarter of 2021. I have just received information that the first vaccines to Ghana are actually being made today when we are in this House. Covax has been criticised for going too slow, mainly because Covax started procurement relatively late. It has not been possible to sign binding agreements on vaccine doses without financial coverage, and there has been a doubtful approach to the mRNA vaccines, which require advanced logistics. But I would like to say that Sweden is active in this work. And I fully share Håkan Svenneling's concern that it is primarily the rich countries that get most of the vaccine. That is why we must act as a driving force on this issue.
i-45175ea3013b547a-116	Mr President, I would like to Sweden and the EU are the major funders of research. Today, Sweden supports research without the need for the vaccine to benefit everyone. Instead, there is hope for the good will of the pharmaceutical industry. That's not good enough. Instead, the harmful monopoly of pharmaceutical companies must be broken and the production of vaccines increased sharply in the world. That is the only way we can put an end to this pandemic. The Left Party has proposed SEK 1 billion in additional Corona assistance. The government's response is so far 200 million kronor that you steal from other aid. That's not good enough. This issue is not about whether or not we should support Covax. It's about how to increase the production of vaccines in the world. Then you cannot put sticks in the wheel for India and South Africa who want to produce more cheap corona vaccines.
i-45175ea3013b547a-120	Mr President, I would like to We do not disagree at all on the need to stand up for the vaccine to reach even the poor countries. In fact, we have given SEK 200 million extra to ensure that developing countries receive vaccines. It's not like you steal money in any way. Sweden is one of the very few countries that still have 1% in aid and which shows that we can be flexible when needed. That is something we should be proud of. It is not something that we should mock in the Parliament's pulpit.
i-45175ea3013b547a-122	Mr President, I would like to It is well known that Ann Linde and the Swedish Government have close relations with the regime in Iran. Sometimes friendship has given the impression of an almost permissive Swedish policy on Iran. For those of us who want to see a value-based Swedish foreign policy, it is distressing to see how the Swedish government is closer to the dictatorship in Iran than democracy in Israel. Iran is today one of the greatest threats to international peace and security. We see it in Yemen, we see it in Syria, we see it in Lebanon and we see it in Iraq. We see it in the Islamic Republic's never-ending flow of money to Islamist terrorists. We see it in the threats of annihilating Israel and the Jewish people. Nuclear weapons in the hands of extreme Shia muslim ayatollahs are an existential issue, not only for Israel but for a whole world. That is why the discussions now under way on a JCPOA agreement are so important. Mr President, I would like to For a dictatorship that has put the lie in the system, negotiations are a game. Iran intends to get rid of economic sanctions without definitely stopping the production of nuclear weapons. The question then arises, Ann Linde : Will the Swedish Government support an agreement that does not once and for all put an end to Iranian nuclear weapons?
i-45175ea3013b547a-127	Mr President, I would like to As usual, Lars Adaktusson uses large breast tones when he comes to prove that we do not cooperate with Israel and that we support Iran. As usual, it's completely false. Of course, we are very clear about Iran when it comes to protecting human rights and democracy. We also say that in direct talks. On the other hand, when we say that JCPOA, the nuclear agreement, should be opposed to human rights, I think that one is completely wrong. The nuclear agreement is about preventing Iran from receiving nuclear weapons. It's extremely important. Perhaps that is the most important thing that we can do for the security of Israel in that region as well. Now that the U.S. left JCPOA, Iran immediately began to enrich its uranium in a way that led to a faster reaching of a nuclear weapon. Think for yourself, Lars Adaktusson, what an Iran with nuclear weapons would lead to. It's a terrible future scenario. That is why this must be put at the absolute top of the agenda. At the same time, we can criticise human rights violations in Iran – non-compliance with international law and so on. These things are not opposed to each other. I think that the path that Trump, and perhaps Lars Adaktusson, has chosen by saying that if we can't have everything, we should have nothing, is the policy that has led Iran to move closer to nuclear weapons, and that is an incredibly unpleasant scenario for the future.
i-45175ea3013b547a-134	Mr President, I would like to So it is the United States' fault and not Iran's fault that Iran is developing nuclear weapons. That is the essence of what the Foreign Minister says. Israel's former defence minister Ehud Barak has said the following: the question is not when Iran has nuclear weapons but when it is too late to stop Iranian nuclear weapons. An internationally binding agreement with Iran is welcome, Ann Linde, but not at the cost of passing the time that makes it impossible to put an end to Iranian weapons of mass destruction. Another agreement that temporarily postpones the acquisition of Iranian nuclear weapons is not a solution. Will the Swedish Government accept an agreement that is only about temporarily postponing the production of nuclear weapons? Answer that question, Ann Linde!
i-45175ea3013b547a-138	Mr President, I would like to I'd be happy to answer that question. We will do everything we can to prevent Iran from receiving nuclear weapons. I will not contribute to the best being the enemy of the good. We have no illusions about Iran's role in the region. Iran is involved in several Middle East conflicts. It is responsible for regional development. Iran needs to change its relationship and way of contributing to various political solutions, for example in Yemen. Political tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia are reflected in the negative impact of several countries on the whole region. What happened to JCPOA when the United States withdrew was that Iran acted exactly as we thought, namely that they did not comply with the agreement but continued their development work to obtain nuclear weapons. That is the big question, and we must put a stop to that.
i-45175ea3013b547a-141	Mr President, I would like to I listened to the foreign declaration and tried to hear something strong and clear about Turkey. I didn't hear anything. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Sweden should be clear in the criticism of human rights violations in Turkey. But are we, Secretary of State? Turkey is a large country in which a re-election is being conducted in Europe's largest city, Istanbul, because Erdo中an is not satisfied with the winner of the mayor's elections in the city. In practice, all freedom of expression in the country has been strangled. Turkey is not a rule of law today, but it is committing massive abuse of the population of the country. Opposition politicians, such as Selahattin Demirtaş, have been imprisoned. It occupies neighbouring countries and invades neighbouring countries, and it acts very destructively on the part of Ankara in virtually every direction. Why does Sweden not address these issues clearly in the foreign policy declaration? Why did the foreign declaration not say that we are demanding tough, tough and resolute sanctions against Turkey? Why was it not said in the foreign declaration that Sweden now wants to build a broad alliance of free states in order to put serious pressure on Turkey to start acting like a normal state? Nothing was said about this. Sweden has a large population. In fact, many percent of the inhabitants of our country have roots in Turkey. In the same way, Mr President, it is strange that the government has still not recognised the genocide committed more than a hundred years ago against the Christian population in Turkey.
i-45175ea3013b547a-145	Mr President, I would like to I thank Fredrik Malm for bringing up Turkey. Unfortunately, we cannot go into all the details of what we would like to say in the foreign declaration because of the speaking time. That is why it is so good that we can have the debate after the declaration in order to clarify these issues in more detail. As regards the situation in Turkey, Fredrik Malm knows that the government is very serious about the negative developments in Turkey regarding respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Of course, it is particularly serious for opposition politicians, not least from pro-Kurdian HDP. Not long ago it was mass arrests. Selahattin Demirtaş, party leader for HDP, whom I myself have met several times, is still in prison. These are journalists, religious minorities, human rights defenders and trade union representatives. I recently heard during the board meeting of Anna Lindhs's Memorial Fund that our former prize winner Keskin, a human rights lawyer, is now under threat of long prison sentences. Sweden and the EU must contribute in every way to countering the negative trend. This is also something we raise directly in talks with representatives of Turkey. In addition, we are talking about additional sanctions on the part of the European Union.
i-45175ea3013b547a-149	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I can agree with much of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions. On the other hand, I do not agree that this issue should be a detail. The Secretary of State said she can't take up all the details. This is far more serious than being a detail. The destructive behaviour of Turkey and Recep Tayip Erdo中an today in the immediate region – in Syria, in the eastern Mediterranean, in the eastern part of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, in northern Iraq – and, of course, the internal repression of strangled freedom of expression, taken over newspapers, imprisoned oppositionists, persecution of the Kurdish population, and the denial of genocide against Christians, together, mean that we must act in favour of much stronger pressure on Turkey and sharper sanctions.
i-45175ea3013b547a-152	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the question of what is happening in Turkey is not a detail. It wasn't a good choice of words on my part. These are big questions. What I meant is that, unfortunately, even large issues will have little room when you have 20 minutes of speaking time at your disposal and will try to give a picture. That is why I think it is good that we can make it clear here that we take the relationship with Turkey seriously. I have the same view as Fredrik Malm on the negative developments and that we must stand up for and defend human rights, democracy and the rule of law. This is an issue in which we also need to address how Turkey acts in its immediate vicinity in the Mediterranean, in Libya, in the Caucasus, in Syria and so on. This is something that is often discussed with EU foreign ministers. I fully agree with the concern about developments.
i-45175ea3013b547a-155	Mr President, I would like to We have listened to the government's foreign declaration read out by Ann Linde. Let me now give you what can be seen as the Parliament's foreign policy declaration in contrast to the government where it meets a majority of the Members of this House consisting of five or six parties. Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak were not mentioned. There are two names that deserve to be explicitly pronounced from the Parliament's pulpit, and two Swedish citizens have been imprisoned by the People's Republic of China and Eritrea respectively. A year ago, the Left Party caught up in the foreign policy debate that the Moderates proposed a Commission to review Sweden's handling of the important consular issue Gui Minhai. Despite strong initial opposition from the Social Democrats and the Green Party, the matter has now been pushed to the point that the Parliament has unanimously supported calling on the government to set up a commission on Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. The report shall be submitted by 31 March 2022 at the latest. No, no finally became yes, yes – thanks to the Riksdag and despite the government. At a terrible rate, the security laws of the People's Republic of China have destroyed Hong Kong. People are being imprisoned. People are being silenced. Opinions different from Beijing are being cleared out. As a friend of Europe, I have to say that my Europe has been too weak and too late to react to this brutality. The Moderates ensured that a majority was formed behind the idea of sanctions against China. When we did so, criticisms were directed from the Social Democrats. It was then said to be irresponsible. But for a tortured people in Hong Kong, and against a regime that is engaged in crimes against humanity in Xinjiang, it is important that there are countries and politicians who see what is happening. Now that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to Brussels, reference is made to the negotiated position in the Riksdag, i.e. the one that Ann Linde then criticised and is now part of. Then no, no, and now yes, yes- thanks to the Riksdag and despite the government. In our important neighbourhood with the Baltic Sea region, the Nordic region and the Baltic countries, Russia is a destroyer through its actions. At the same time, there is every reason to enjoy the popular demonstrations for freedom and decency that have been seen. An environment has been shocked by the underwear poisoning of Putin's foremost challenger Aleksej Navalnyj and the mock trials that followed. A Swedish diplomat has been declared undesirable in Russia. Then it is reasonable to stand on the side of a oppressed Russian people, a people who demand righteousness. They want action against the oligarchs. They want action against the palace builders. They want someone to attack large-scale public shoplifting and money laundering. Sanctions directed directly against the project that will make our Europe within the EU more dependent on fossil gas, and also Russian gas, run counter to both our security and the energy mix we should strive for. It is therefore natural to say that sanctions against Nord Stream 2 should be included among possible measures and that Sweden should find like-minded countries. It is now a Swedish line – thanks to the Riksdag and despite the government. Mr President, I would like to Covid-19 and the pandemic that rages affect the whole world. However, this is dealt with differently. From the United States, over half a million people are reported dead. Sweden is on as many as around 13 000. In East Asia, with Bhutan and Taiwan as a unique example, there are literally isolated cases. This affects. In our border areas, severe consequences of closed borders are seen in the Nordic countries. There is also a need to focus on vaccinations and to act against an increasing hunger, like last year's Nobel laureate in peace, the United Nations World Food Programme. An important tool is the UN Global Development Strategy Agenda 2030. There are objectives on how to combat poverty and raise countries. There is also reason to bend your finger self-critically when it comes to how we can contribute and improve in Sweden. There may be different views on how to implement Agenda 2030. For us Moderates, it is natural to see it as a growth agenda. The prerequisites for resource creation must be put in place. It is reasonable, however, that we in Parliament should follow up and push forward. When the government presented a letter on Agenda 2030, feedback would be at best up to every six years. We want a review at least every two years. This was the case – thanks to the Riksdag, despite the government. Today there is a broad majority of five out of eight parties who have supported a so-called NATO option. This means increased freedom of action. This is a clear signal inward and outward that strengthens Sweden's security in contrast to the line of alliancelessness that the government is pursuing, in which a Swedish NATO membership is directly excluded regardless of how the security situation develops. For us, it is a matter of marking that there is another tool in the safety policy toolbox. There is also a strong value in Sweden and Finland having the same approach and relationship with NATO in a situation where we are now deepening operational defence cooperation between the countries. This is important, and it is thanks to the Riksdag, despite the government. A government that has changed the security policy line in terms of five or six times – moreover, most recently today, as it seems – does well to see what brings stability and long-termness. Ann Linde must, Mr President, do as Anna Lindh did before 2002 and invite broad party discussions on the security policy line. Shoulder that responsibility! If this happens, it will be thanks to the Riksdag, despite the government. Finally, time is unfortunately on the side of rotten regimes. We can be inspired by a tireless struggle for freedom in Belarus or Venezuela. Prolonged processes and difficulties in gathering behind sensible and effective sanctions also keep those who bite behind. To these two countries can be added Myanmar. In our own neighbourhood can be noted Russia's war against Ukraine in the eastern part of the country since 2014. And today there are worrying reports of the crackdown on the opposition in Georgia following a previously challenged election. Mr President, I would like to On the moderate side, I would also like to point out two further areas. Taiwan is an important hub for democracy and tolerance in Asia and has a vital economy. But Taiwan is daily threatened by the People's Republic of China. The Moderates want to upgrade the Swedish presence in Taipei with a House of Sweden, as, for example, the Netherlands and the UK have done. Israel's democracy, high-tech economy and excellent research make it an attractive partner. Sweden will be close to Israel. Bilateral ties need to be significantly strengthened, and cooperation should be intensified also in the multilateral context and in the UN. It takes a genuine fresh start with Israel, because the previous relationship is torn apart. As a collective party, we Moderates are prepared to shape what is a Swedish line with support also in the country's parliament, whether we are in the government or not.
i-45175ea3013b547a-172	Mr President, I would like to Although it did not sound like that on Hans Wallmark, the government is very keen to have a good relationship with the Riksdag. And I think we have. I think we have good discussions in the Foreign Affairs Committee, in the Foreign Affairs Committee and in the EU Council. But when it comes to foreign policy at government level and how to do it, it is very much about timing. Let me take one example: Nord Stream 2. Sweden has repeatedly expressed concerns about the project and the impact it can have on the common energy policy, the consequences for Ukraine and so on. The prime ministers of Denmark and Sweden have sent a letter to the EU saying that this should be stopped. We have not been able to do so ourselves because of international law. What the EU Council called for, as I said and told them it was the parliamentary decision, was that we should take Nord Stream 2 as a sanction. I was then able to see that the issue is extremely sensitive in Germany. The result was that, in addition to the Swedish position, one small country raised this, because it does not want a major conflict with Germany. As several other countries said, it would mean sanctions against over 150 European companies and a major conflict with Germany. This, Hans Wallmark, is not a wise policy. Instead, it is coming in like an elephant in a china shop, and I do not think that foreign policy should be pursued. It is about timing, and it is about knowing when you get the most effect from what you want to achieve. I am pleased that we are thereby imposing other sanctions under the Magnitsky Act against the crimes committed against Navalnyj.
i-45175ea3013b547a-177	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I think that the government is actually misbehaving its relations with Parliament in the area of security policy. It is one thing to inform, to come to a committee or an EU board and clarify an already established position. It's quite another thing to work on formulations together. What is worse, Mr President: we are doing this, and parties in the Committee on Defence, after much work, come up with a formula that is valid and then repeated in a defence bill with the support of budgetary partners such as the Centre Party and the Liberals. However, when we have done this and the foreign declaration is then presented, the government has some very different formulations. It's not taking responsibility. Therefore, I mean honestly and sincerely – and it is also repeated by the Center Party from here – that you should invite to broad-based party deliberations. There are several issues we can talk about: NATO option and the relationship with Britain now after Brexit, where we do not have a declaration of solidarity that applies to them. We can also talk about the special and deeper relationship with Finland. With regard to Nord Stream 2, Mr President, this is absolutely a discussion that is also taking place in Germany. There are leading German politicians who also question Nord Stream 2 as a project. This is now the view that a parliamentary majority has come up with. I think it is basically a good opinion and a good attitude. Then, of course, the EU will have to negotiate and push forward. But it is there, Mr President, that I sometimes lack the enthusiasm and commitment of the Social Democrats in the fight against Nord Stream 2. It is said that you are against, but when you then vote on it in the Nordic Council you do not vote that way. And where are you in the European Parliament? My group is very clear about Nord Stream 2.
i-45175ea3013b547a-182	Mr President, I would like to What this is about is: should we show a divided Europe where very few countries want to take on this sensitive issue, or should we have a united Europe with clear sanctions under Magnitsky law? I'll definitely pick the latter. Hans Wallmark refers to Anna Lindh 2002. I was then an international secretary of the party and sat alongside Anna when we took this in the parliamentary group. Then you could invite the Moderates to party deliberations. At that time, the Moderates were one of the parties prepared to make agreements with the government. Unfortunately, that is not the case now. The Moderates are dropping out of all the attempts we have at broad agreements. So I wouldn't trust the Moderates to stay here. It would be another game for the gallery.
i-45175ea3013b547a-185	Mr President, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs. That doesn't make any sense. However, we are very clear that it should be real. If the government invites all parliamentary parties to party discussions on security policy, I can promise on behalf of the Moderates that we will be there. But, of course, we will run our views in contrast to the views of the Social Democrats, Mr President-for example, that Nord Stream 2 is bad for Europe for reasons of security and energy policy, that a NATO option is involved in strengthening the security of the Baltic Sea region, that it is important that we have enhanced cooperation with the UK and that cooperation with Finland beyond peace-time has consequences. All of this, eight parties should be able to talk to each other about – if the government were to invite parties to deliberate.
i-45175ea3013b547a-187	Mr President, I would like to In many ways we have common markers made. Of course, it is important that we do so, because we are pushing on from Parliament in several cases. Sanctions legislation has been such an area. We have worked hard to get a Magnitsky law. We want to see it also in the Nordic and Swedish context, but we have now got it at European level. That is good, and it is right that it is being used now. But, Mr President, it has its limits. It does not capture the corruption and money laundering that we have seen in the case of Russia and in several other countries. What keeps the whole system going is violence, political courts and corruption. Then it is important that the EU is able to find a way to meet also those types of actors with sanctions. The Magnitsky legislation today meets human rights crimes but not systematic corruption and money laundering. That is why, Mr President, I hope that Parliament will be able to agree – we could not do that in the EU Council on Friday – so that we have a Magnitsky legislation that also contains opportunities in terms of systematic corruption and money laundering. I regret that the Moderates did not table on Friday, because perhaps we would also have had that question on the table to the EU Foreign Affairs Council on Monday. This was not the case, but we are not giving up, Mr President.
i-45175ea3013b547a-190	Mr President, I would like to I will certainly pay tribute to Kerstin Lundgren for her stubborn struggle, both in this House and in various international bodies, in pushing for Magnitsky legislation. We're convinced that's a good thing. We also had a discussion in last year's foreign policy debate – it was not the Center Party and the Moderates, but I had a discussion with the Swedish Democrats – where I stressed how important it is that we get this kind of Magnitsky legislation in place in Europe. After all, the collective community is always stronger than a single country. I have no objection to moving this forward with regard to money laundering and gross corruption. That is something that really distinguishes Russia, for example, today. If then Kerstin Lundgren listened carefully, she also heard that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not particularly keen to raise even this that we got through with six parties about Nord Stream 2. I think it would have been even more difficult and burdensome for her to take another question. I also think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs' response to me just now indicates that the government is moderately amused by being run over by Parliament. But let us get back to you! I am happy to put more questions on my list where five or six parties can agree and indicate that there is a different foreign policy line. Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party and the Liberals tend to be quite careful to say that foreign and security policy is not within the 73-point programme, and I think that is a good thing. That's what I usually take to heart. That is why the Center Party must also now regret the fact that the government is dealing with a formulation in the defence bill that you have been involved in negotiating, another in the Defence Committee where you Daniel Bäckström has been a leading person and so suddenly a foreign declaration with completely different formulations. Now I'm not a center party– but quite close; I'm moderate– but you as a center party are disappointed with your partner party Social Democrats?
i-45175ea3013b547a-195	Mr President, I would like to To conclude, we do not have cooperation either in foreign and security policy or in defence policy. That is not part of the 73 paragraphs, and I am sure Mr Wallmark is well aware of that. I am sure he has also noted, because we have been dealing with complex committees, that we, on the part of the Centre Party and the Liberals, have raised a motion on security policy in particular. There it was clear that we were not in agreement, and neither were we in relation to the defence bill. It also contains a statement, which may have escaped Mrs Wallmark, that the security policy line is fixed – and we see how it moves, Mr President. However, I am pleased that I now hear that the Moderates want to support our proposal for a House of Sweden in Taipei. I also hope that Wallmark is now not so cautious about any concerns for the Foreign Minister, but is prepared to stand up for Magnitsky sanctions against corruption as well. It's a way forward.
i-45175ea3013b547a-198	Mr President, I would like to Now I do not think the Foreign Minister understood that I am particularly cautious about the concern for the Foreign Minister. My speech was probably a broad test map of what we can achieve in Parliament. I would also like to note to Kerstin Lundgren, Mr President, that all the points in the Parliament's foreign declaration that I preferred have been supported by the Centre Party. Then I cannot get away from the fact that precisely with regard to budgetary cooperation, the Centre Party is a party which has budgetary cooperation with the Social Democrats. I would really like to emphasise that Kerstin Lundgren and the Center are clear that foreign and security policy is not part of the 73-point programme. However, defence, foreign and security policy sometimes has budgetary implications. Let me acknowledge the kindness: I will try to support Kerstin Lundgren with regard to the Magnitsky legislation. But then I also think that the Centre Party can support me in the outrage that I am now expressing over the slippage that the government is showing in the area of security policy. It's serious!
i-45175ea3013b547a-201	Mr President, I would like to Member Wallmark had a good overview of what power Parliament actually has over foreign policy. The review also showed that the Left Party and the Moderates have found each other many times during this term of office on precisely foreign policy issues. Wallmark's review also showed how untrue what a number of parties wrote in a paper that the Left Party would have no influence was. I am happy to continue to be an elephant in a porcelain shop if that means that there will actually be dialogue on the part of the government. After all, we have not seen any form of dialogue from the Foreign Minister in the field of foreign policy. In particular, we did not see it last week, on which Wallmark was concerned, when it came to sanctions against Russia and we lifted Nord Stream 2. In fact, here I think Wallmark has a point. However, I would like to highlight another policy area in which the Left Party and the Moderates are far further apart. For a long time we have seen how the Moderates have changed their rhetoric and policy on aid, from having stood up for the Swedish one per cent target during their reign to today wanting to foreclose themselves from the outside world. On Facebook the Moderates are now writing about Sweden first, and many wonder if you have become t rumpists the whole bunch. In the autumn of 2019 you put forward a proposal for development aid to be abolished by 2030, because then the world would be perfect. It feels about as likely as I would snap my fingers and make the coronap adem disappear. Mr President, I would like to Humanitarian needs are now greatly increasing in the wake of the pandemic. At the same time, capitalism shows its ugly face when the price of vaccines is tripped up by rich countries, it lays hookbones for cheap vaccine production in poor countries and already burdened economies get a debt burden. Many of the old friends of the Moderates have thrown old neo-liberal theories overboard, but the Moderates are hanging on and thinking When will the Moderates' foreign policy actually be about making the whole world better?
i-45175ea3013b547a-207	Mr President, I would like to I will comment on the two-part point from Håkan Svenneling. It has sometimes happened that we, Håkan Svenneling and the undersigned, have been accused in the public debate of having a bromance. Mr President, I would like to very strongly deny that. But I think what Håkan Svenneling did in this House is important, namely that he indicated that the idea of party deliberations is good. That's what the Moderates have said. Now the Left Party has said it, and the Center Party has said it before. If we hear the rest of the parties say it in this House this day, we have sent a clear message to the government. Mr President, I would like to I also believe that Håkan Svenneling and I are asking for party deliberations because we have different opinions. We have different opinions about NATO. We have different views on how the climate of security policy should be shaped. We may see security policy challenges in a similar way to the threat that exists in the Baltic Sea region, but what we are landing in is: let us talk to each other and then let us try this. I hope that the Foreign Minister will listen to this exchange. It is absolutely the case that we in the Moderates are changing and reforming our development policy. We say that we have to test this budget area, like any other budget area. We do not think it is reasonable to first set a level, 1% of GDP, and then decide what to use the money for. We want to see a completely different direction. In addition, we want to see longer aid budgets that extend over several years so that we can set priorities. One such area that we should prioritise, and where I agree with Håkan Svenneling, are vaccinations and vaccination programs. Sweden is now beating its chest because it contributes SEK 200 million to the important international vaccine programme. Our neighbour Norway contributes 1 250 million. That's six times more. I believe that priorities can be set within the framework of an aid budget, but I also think that an aid budget must be given priority over other areas of expenditure.
i-45175ea3013b547a-211	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps this could be the case in Wallmark's world of illusions, but aid works in practice to measure how many percent of a country's bnp the country gives. Both the Moderates and the former Swedish Democrats claim that they like aid, but it is those parties who want to cut in Swedish aid. It will have effects in practice. Sweden's aid is one of the best in the world according to OECD-Da c who reviews and controls aid. We could do much more if we stood up for aid. Then we have a real impact in the world. I am happy to change some of the rules on how to plan aid and such things, but we must dare to stand up because the 1% target actually means something. This means that Sweden has a strong voice in our surrounding world, and it makes a difference to poor people every day around the world.
i-45175ea3013b547a-213	Mr President, I would like to The difference is that we want to prioritise. We believe that it is unreasonable to first set a spending target and then think about what to do with the money. We also think that the question should be asked: is it reasonable that our aid budget, by being 1% of GDP or GDP, will therefore be about twice as large as the police and judicial budget? We Moderates do not think so, and instead think that we need to be able to make these kinds of priorities. If Sweden has contributed over the years to a country, Tanzania, with over 60 billion of taxpayers' money, can it be said that it has had an impact on the 60 billion? No. That is why we believe that priority should be given. But I agree, Mr President. There is a difference in the view of how we use the money between the Left Party and the Moderates.
i-45175ea3013b547a-217	Mr President, I would like to The fight between democracy and autocracy is at a breaking point. In these words, the new President of the United States, Joe Biden, described our present in his debut speech to the G7 Group. It is in difficult times like this, when the world is suffering from a pandemic with everything that it means, that the will to defend democracy is being seriously tested. We have seen it in Iraq where Shiamilis have attacked the Christian A on the Nineves plain. We see this in several countries where protestors are being attacked in the light of the claim that they want to combat the spread of the disease. But it is not just democracy from that point of view that is being tested. The alleged democratic offensive of the January parties is also being tried. In the wake of the pandemic, we have seen the importance of modern technology to enable non-physical meetings and its potential to safeguard and affirm free speech. It is the same technology that enables ordinary people to testify in real time to what is happening in repressive states and which therefore revolutionised the struggle for fundamental rights and freedoms throughout the world. Social media have become an indescribably important arena for both individuals and various social actors who wish to spread their messages, which is why today they are also a large part of the public dialogue infrastructure. Close to anyone with internet access can be heard today as long as they are not silenced by power. We have recently seen how international tech giants have arbitrarily shut down the social media of private individuals, and we have seen how to even close accounts of elected members of the Swedish Parliament or the European Parliament. This is unacceptable. Sweden must take the lead in defending the free word in both modern democracies and Sweden and underdeveloped dictatorships. This issue must be raised within the international community. We cannot and must not arbitrarily just accept this. The question is broader than many think. The freedom of the press that is so important to us has also been reduced. Sadly, Sweden stands out and lost third most in the world in last year's freedom of the press index by Reporters Without Borders. Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is not just freedom of the press and of expression on the Internet that I intend to highlight today, although a clear position on these very issues increases credibility when we criticise authoritarian states that do not allow these fundamental rights. One example of such a state is, of course, China. The widespread violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms in China have long been well known. In fact, oppression even extends beyond the borders of the country. We've seen kidnappings, espionage and threats, as well as in Sweden. Furthermore, China is a country with a growing confidence, which has been exemplified in the new so-called security law that was used to quickly take over the former autonomous and democratic Hong Kong. Democracy in the city is now a passé, and the intensive indoctrination process of Hong Kong's inhabitants, not least the young, has begun. We have also seen increased Chinese aggression against neighbouring countries, not least against the democratic and well-developed island nation of Taiwan, which should of course receive our full support and should be included when we tackle a pandemic together. They should know that we are doing what we can to ensure that they are included in the international community, including through the signing of free trade and investment agreements and through enhanced diplomatic relations and clear recognition. In the province of Xinjiang, China, we see concentration camps. In these are up to 1 million prisoners. There is slave labour, rape, torture and indoctrination of minorities. There is also evidence of systematic organ theft at worst. Living people are being slaughtered for their organs. Uighurs, Christians, falungong practitioners and other minorities are consistently and repeatedly victims of an empathetic policy. The only answer is to fight hard. Sweden must push for strong EU-wide trade restrictions on China, like the United States and the United Kingdom, and state clearly that the genocide-like events that we see in that country are totally unacceptable and an obvious crime against humanity. The year is now 2021. We cannot arbitrarily watch this happen and allow the country to organise the Olympic Games or similar events as if everything was peace and joy. For that matter, we cannot sit quietly and nod when the EU signs a new investment agreement with the dictatorship without clear counter-claims. Mr President, I would like to It can be repeated: concentration camps, slave labour, kidnappings, murders, rapes, organ thefts and forced sterilizations. The situation in the Chinese Communist dictatorship cannot be made clearer. It is not a day too early for the Social Democrats and the Green Party to show that they are on the right side of history. Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to stand here today without mentioning global security policy. The intelligence business towards Sweden has increased. Our geographical position is of considerable importance to Russia, which is also identified by the Security Service as one of the three most active actors involved in espionage in our country. Russia is a threat not only to its own people, but also to its neighbours, as we are repeatedly forced to see. This is one of the reasons why Sweden should work for a stop of Nord S tream 2. This is perhaps also the most important reason for a NATO option, which would mean that Sweden's security policy harmonises with Finland. This would in the long term allow for a future defence alliance. The NATO option would also ensure lasting financing of the defence and give us room for manoeuvre in a possible security policy shift in our neighbourhood. It is clear that the government does not share that picture. The most worrying thing about this, however, is that, contrary to a clear parliamentary majority, it refuses to proceed with this. That was also evident in the foreign policy declaration today. The government refuses to comply with Parliament's decision. Mr President, I would like to This brings me back to last year's theme: democracy. During the year, little has improved on that front, with a few exceptions. A series of peace agreements have been concluded between the only democracy in the Middle East, Israel, and other former hostile states. It can be said that, strangely enough, the government did not pay much attention to this. In the light of the government's so-called democracy offensive, I chose last year to rate the government's work. They failed. I don't have to say much more than they still fail. A lot has happened in the world. I could line up a long list of examples. However, one issue on which we have discussed earlier today and on which I would like to stress a great deal is national Magnitsky sanctions.
i-45175ea3013b547a-238	Mr President, I would like to Swedish foreign policy represents our values and interests. We stand up for cooperation, multilateralism and international law. Diplomacy is our main line of defense. As a rule, it is better to have a relationship and dialogue with those whom we stand far from, rather than going to constant attack or to completely isolate a country and its people. Markus Wiechel and others in this House are now attacking. They say that our foreign policy is rejected and that we should have much tougher formulations. A tweet, a headline or an element is easy to get. But sometimes it is much harder to make a positive change in reality. This requires hard work, a balance and a long-term perspective in relations with other countries. It is a pity that Markus Wiechel is so hard on our campaign for democracy, which actually shows very substantial concrete results. The trade union representatives, the women, the LGBT people and the human rights defenders who have been able to participate in the government's democratic drive would probably not think it is a failure. Is this the one that the Swedish Democrats want to remove now that they want to reduce aid by 16 billion?
i-45175ea3013b547a-241	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there is a great deal for which one can criticise the government. But I'm actually going to focus on one thing that's positive. In fact, the government has recently been fast in some respects. To mention something positive, the Navalnyj case was clearly fast and so on. However, the government has not been quick when it comes to other issues. I believe that the government often hides behind the community in the EU. Of course, unity is a good thing, but when human rights are violated and when you see oppression or dictatorships oppressing your people, you must be able to act quickly. You have to be able to act independently. That is one of the reasons why I and the Swedish Democrats advocate national and not just EU-wide Magnitsky sanctions. This would clearly allow the perpetrators responsible for the war of aggression by Azerbaijan and Turkey against democratic Armenia to be framed. Action could clearly be taken when countries oppress their people, such as Tanzania, Belarus and Uganda. However, the government too often chooses to rely on the EU-wide. As I said before, it's great if you can reach a consensus. But when it comes to such issues, to democracy, we must act quickly. We have seen this not least in the case of Belarus, where demonstrators are appealing for sharp sanctions. The EU has now imposed certain sanctions. But it took a long time, and that's not enough. Why can we not just do, for example, the Baltic countries, which imposed national sanctions?
i-45175ea3013b547a-246	Mr President, I would like to I am opposed to Markus Wiechel saying that we are hiding behind Europe. That's not at all what it's all about. It is about that it is important and good if Sweden says one thing. But if the EU says one thing together, it has much more power. That is why we have common sanctions through the EU or the UN and not national ones. While we recognise that we should be able to say things, the EU is better off. However, especially with regard to relations with Russia, it is important that we do not show that there is a crack in Europe, for example on such important issues as sanctions. It was now said in all Russian equivalents to TT that Sweden pushed for a stop for Nord Stream 2 but did not get support from more than one country. It shows a split rather than a unity. That's why it's not positive.
i-45175ea3013b547a-248	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, it will, of course, be more force if several are united. But why exclude one's own involvement as well? When you have spoken a democracy offensive, you should be on the offensive, you should be proactive and you should be in the front line. When it comes to sanctions against Russia and Belarus, for example, it is only good if we show where the cabinet should be, if we first tackle these violations of human rights. Then there can be a common position, which is a good thing. I don't see why one would rule out the other.
i-45175ea3013b547a-250	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Swedish Democrats a question about what they prefer. I heard that Markus Wiechel touched on democracy issues and the debate on democracy. I would therefore simply like to hear whether Markus Wiechel prefers liberal democracy or illiberal democracy.
i-45175ea3013b547a-251	Mr President, I would like to It was a slightly different question that I didn't expect to get from Kerstin Lundgren. At one time I thought that liberalism was only about freedom, and that is something positive. For this reason it is easy to say that I represent liberal democracy. But what does liberal democracy mean? Is it about the right to think what you want, to express your opinions or to believe in free society? Then I certainly prefer liberal democracy.
i-45175ea3013b547a-254	Mr President, I would like to Civil Rights Defenders is one of the civil society organisations that are really working to defend people's rights against repressive regimes. They have campaigned for people to be able to resist and create a future in which oppressors cannot take their power for granted. I have noted, Mr President, that one of Markus Wiechel's party colleagues, Björn Söder, has very clearly taken action to ensure that Sweden strangles support for Civil Rights Defenders because the organisation points out one of the representatives of liberal democracy, namely Viktor Orbán in Hungary. They also point out Putin and al-Asad-Assad. If you stand up for liberal democracy, you should also stand up for the Civil Rights Defenders? They do an amazing job for people's rights in extremely difficult environments.
i-45175ea3013b547a-256	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that Civil Rights Defenders do much that is good, and much that they do may not be so good. The Liberalism of the Center Party is a little hard for me to reconcile. It's like George Orwell's Animal Farm. It starts with that everyone is equal, but then you say that some are a little more worth than others. This is what I see in the Center Party when, in many cases, you exclude, for example, the Swedish Democrats from several different conversations. This is not liberalism to the extent that it stands for everyone's views to be equally worth listening to. These tendencies worry me very much. If this is liberalism, I find it difficult to accept it.
i-45175ea3013b547a-258	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have long tried to polish their facades in order to cooperate with the Moderates in particular. Unfortunately, it seems to be successful. It will therefore be interesting when we talk about democracy, and something surprising, that you recently fought for Orbán, Putin and al-Asad-Assad. All three are leaders with obvious authoritarian leadership. The Swedish Democrats have not written one or two but three written questions about this through Björn Söder. You have also actively criticised the important international human rights organisation Civil Rights Defenders, which has its main base here in Sweden. Above all, you are angry at the criticism of your friend Viktor Orbán, the Hungarian Prime Minister. Viktor Orbán has attacked the media and freedom of expression, oppressed minorities and LGBT people, attacked academic freedom and closed down universities. What the Swedish Democrats want to do is to induce the government to withdraw funding for Civil Rights Defenders. Who has used this method? Of course, Viktor Orbán. Then the immediate idea arises: Which other civil society organisations do the Swedish Democrats want to silence? According to the Swedish Democrats, which international leaders must not criticise civil society organisations? If the Swedish Democrats are allowed to decide, the money will be withdrawn if you do. Is that democracy, Markus Wiechel?
i-45175ea3013b547a-261	Mr President, I would like to Of course, one can go into details of individual written questions written by one of our Members. However, I have no idea what is on these issues, and I therefore think that Håkan Svenneling may ask the honourable Member his questions. There is no doubt that the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party have different views on who should receive support. Consider an example. The Left Party has a fondness for the dictatorial PLO, while the Swedish Democrats are on the side of democracy in the Middle East, that is, Israel's side. We believe in a two-state solution in which Palestinians and Israelis can live side by side. Nevertheless, we are basing our policy on standing up for democracy, for free speech and for people to live under fundamental rights and freedoms. The Left Party doesn't. You cannot do that when you support, for example, aid money for the PLO or the Palestinian Authority, which is undemocratic. Nobody can say anything else about that. In addition, there have been widespread scandals about anti-Semitism, terrorist financing and so on. I am very confident with the priorities of Sweden's democrats regarding our development policy. Question is, does the Left Party really feel the same?
i-45175ea3013b547a-265	Mr President, I would like to I have never heard of a foreign policy spokesperson who does not read the written questions of his party in the field of foreign policy. Maybe a part of the curves bites, but I don't. The Swedish Democrats not only criticized Civil Rights Defenders. In his questions Björn Söder also attacks George Soros, a famous Hungarian-American billionaire and philanthropist with Jewish descent. Many on the far right side designate him as a person who is responsible for a conspiracy of Jewish world domination. The right-wing site Nya Tider has called Soros the enemy of Europe number one. This, Mr President, is nothing more than anti-Semitic rhetoric. The parties on the right should consider whether they should cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. You have to think again. For, the Moderates, under the well-polished surface there are Björn Söder and these opinions. And, Liberals, where are there liberals in attacking the basic foundations of liberal democracy? How can you imagine cooperating with this party? I don't understand this.
i-45175ea3013b547a-268	Mr President, I would like to I do not know what Håkan Svenneling has done in the Riksdag when he accuses the Swedish Democrats of being an anti-Semitic party or our representatives of anti-Semitism. Even less do I understand how to call Member Björn Söder anti-Semite indirectly. He is perhaps the most Israeli-friendly member of Parliament. It is obvious if you read the documents that he has written and that the Swedish Democrats also stand for. Björn Söder is a true friend of Israel. No one can say anything else. Anti-Semitism is not something we would ever accept within the Swedish Democrats.
i-45175ea3013b547a-269	Mr President, I would like to In last year's foreign policy debate, I asked for a reply to Markus Wiechel to discuss NATO. I shall now return to the question. The reason is that the Swedish Democrats have for some time been part of the parliamentary majority that advocates a Swedish NATO option. Nevertheless, SD's opposition to full membership seems to persist. In this resistance, the Swedish Democrats join the Red Green Government and the Left Party. It is somewhat unclear whether Markus Wiechel and his party are saying no to NATO membership for the same reasons as the united Left. However, the 'no' parties have one thing in common, namely that they are obliged to respond to binding defence guarantees. Mr President, I would like to The SD builds its security policy line on some cooperation with NATO and a defence alliance with Finland – the latter despite the fact that this does not exist. With SD's security policy, Sweden is today completely free of binding and treaty defence guarantees. If our country finds itself in a crisis or a war situation, neither the Swedish people nor the rest of the world know if anyone comes to the rescue. The question is, Markus Wiechel, if this is how you want it.
i-45175ea3013b547a-274	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Adaktusson for the question. I almost suspected he was going to discuss NATO. It is something that I find very funny, not least in view of the announcement that a parliamentary majority has now addressed to the government regarding a NATO option, something that the Swedish democrats naturally find positive. The reason for this is that we see how this can force the government to live up to the ambitious goals of financing the defence for a long time to come – that is, if they should now follow the parliamentary decision. This is by far the most important thing for us: that Swedish defence is well funded for a long period of time. It is in combination with a future defence alliance with Finland that guarantees that we will be difficult to attack. It will cost to attack our region. Of course, we do not have a defence alliance with Finland today, but that is the ambition. We cannot pursue defence policy unless we have ambitions. We see the NATO option as a very important tool for securing funding, connecting with Finland and ensuring that we have room for manoeuvre in a possible security policy shift in our vicinity.
i-45175ea3013b547a-277	Mr President, I would like to A NATO option is, of course, an opportunity for full NATO membership. You are open to this, Markus Wiechel, and you are referring to the possibility that this might happen if the security policy situation changes, if there is a crisis situation in other words. But it is basically an adventurous attitude. In fact, Sweden's freedom and democracy are at stake. Ann Linde claims that the majority of Parliament acts irresponsibly through the decision on a NATO option. That's remarkable. But it is also remarkable that SD is not able to take the full step and contribute to defence guarantees. 46 per cent of Swedes are today in favour of full membership. Why not listen to the Swedish people, Markus Wiechel?
i-45175ea3013b547a-279	Mr President, I would like to The issue of membership is, in fact, a complex one. Membership does not simply mean that the Alliance guarantees you in the event that you are attacked. This also means that other Member States that are being attacked must be able to stand up. That's how it works, and that's no wonder. The problem at the moment is that there is an alliance with a Turkish commander named Erdo an an. Unfortunately, Lars Adaktusson is not able to answer, but this, in any case, sees the signatories and the Swedish Democrats as a rather big problem. Are we going to put ourselves in the same alliance as Mr Erdo, who is suddenly able to assert self-defense when Turkey is engaged in war in other countries? This is something they do repeatedly, and we have seen clear examples of it. They ally themselves with bloodthirsty jihadists and then invoke self-defense. We don't want to sit in the same room as the m.
i-45175ea3013b547a-281	Mr President, I would like to There are formal events and events in history. They are so large or spectacular that they put their mark, create anxiety or shock and have major consequences in the future. For example, in the 1970s, the Nine student was such an event, as was the hostage drama in Sweden, our introduction of universal and equal suffrage and so on. Such a formative event took place at the beginning of January, namely the storming of the Capitol. Donald Trump actually mobilized supporters to break into the Congress building in Washington and vandalize it. This shocked the world. I myself remember being imprisoned in front of CNN and watching this. It was somehow the proof of what Donald Trumps's actions eventually lead to. I have tried to find out how the Swedish Democrats view the storm of the Capitol. I went to the party's own newspaper, Contemporary, which is owned by the party and has an employed editor in chief. There is a line article on how the Swedish Democrats view this coup d'état. It's kind of interesting, because the editor in chief is defending the storm. He describes the hooligans as freedom fighters working in the spirit of the American revolution and freedom. But not only that – he concludes with a reference to Sweden. He writes this: Will today's rulers suffer the same fate? It depends entirely on them. What the Swedish Democrats are doing is blackmail. What you say in your party paper is: Lie flat for us and our friends in other countries – otherwise we storm the parliament! Is this reasonable, Markus Wiechel?
i-45175ea3013b547a-285	Mr President, I would like to No, it doesn't make sense. Fredrik Malm! I grew up in the United States myself and went to American school. I started my political engagement in the United States in connection with the Presidential elections in 2004. When I was active in the Kerry campaign, that is, the presidential election campaign of the Democrats. I still regard myself personally as a democrat from an American political perspective. There are Swedish democrats who regard themselves as Republicans, and there are Swedish democrats who regard themselves as democrats. Of course, we all have different ways of looking at everything. But the fact is that I have a pretty good picture of what has happened in the United States in political life, and I myself, as I said, have been politically active. I, too, followed these events with horror. I understand that the polarisation in the United States, not least in recent years, has run off to levels that could not be imagined at all. That's why we were all shocked in January. This is also the case for the Swedish Democrats. We were shocked, too. Even the representatives of my party who claim to believe in the Republicans reject the storm. This was totally unacceptable. It is with pleasure that I now see one after one of the hooligans who attacked the core of democracy in the United States being identified and prosecuted. The only thing I can find sad is that you couldn't stop it before.
i-45175ea3013b547a-289	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Markus Wiechel is shocked by the storm of the Capitol. But the Party's newspaper was not particularly shocked. Its editor-in-chief was rather inspired. He argues that this can somehow relate to Boston Tea P arty, the American Revolution, the long-standing struggle for freedom, and so on. It's complete madness, if I'm to be honest. After all, these were vandals who broke into a congressional building and vandalized it, mobilized by a president who for months has done everything to undermine American democracy. It has nothing to do with freedom at all. I will come back to the last thing you write in your party paper: that it is entirely because of Swedish politicians if our parliament is not to be stormed. What is meant by this? I regard this as blackmail. If you don't do what the Swedish Democrats think and say, we storm the Riksdag – how can you reason like that?
i-45175ea3013b547a-291	Mr President, I would like to The same time happens to be owned by the Swedish Democrats, but is independent. I have not actually read what Fredrik Malm refers to. The fact is that the words used by the then President of the United States are, of course, unacceptable. There's no talk about it-- this was a form of sedition. The people who stormed should be severely punished, I think. There is no doubt about that. Nor is there any doubt that the Swedish Democrats are concerned about this and definitely reject the actions of the insane hooligans in the Capitol.
i-45175ea3013b547a-293	Mr President, I would like to Sweden celebrates 100 years of democracy. In 1921 the Swedish Parliament established equal and universal suffrage for women and men. We have learned from the oppression of history and have chosen the path of democracy. We are part of the 8.4 percent of the world's population living in full liberal democracies, according to the Economics Index for 2020. Once again we see young democracies eroding, how old power structures re-emerge, how totalitarian and authoritarian leaders in different costumes oppress, drive and imprison displeasure for the masters of power. The Corona epidemic has accelerated this development, and by 2020 the Economist sees a decline in 70% of the world's countries. People are fighting for freedom, free elections and democratic rights in the streets of Belarus, Russia, Hong Kong, Myanmar, Venezuela, Turkey and many countries. Even in Iran and Saudi Arabia, we see women courageously fighting for their rights. Women and LGBTI people are affected globally, often by leaders who refer to so-called traditional values, with which traditional rule structures are often referred to. The fight for freedom is also ongoing within the EU, for women and LGBT people. The scope for civil society and independent media and courts is shrinking and threatened globally, but also in the EU. The democratic world is being challenged and must be gathered together. We welcome the willingness of the Biden administration to cooperate again with democracies to shape solutions to the challenges facing our citizens. It may be pandemics, the climate, prosperity or our national sovereignty. Together with our Nordic neighbours, Sweden has strong role models and is therefore subject to special influence. For all those who fear freedom and democracy, our countries are a threat, as well as Hong Kong and Taiwan are an example in Southeast Asia and thus a threat to the Communist Party of China. There is reason for all of us to welcome, learn from and cooperate with Taiwan, which, during the year of the Corona 2020, goes from position 41 to 11 on the list of full democracies. Madam President, I would like The security policy situation is characterised by instability and unpredictability. The defense committee notes that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out, nor that military force or threats of it may be used against Sweden. A major conflict can begin with an attack on Sweden. The European security regime continues to erode through Russia's clear action. It is clear in Georgia and Ukraine but visible to anyone who wants to see. Sweden's old security policy line of exclusion, being able to stand outside a conflict in the immediate area, is unsustainable, not stabilizing in northern Europe and does not serve us well. We have reason to build up our resilience, our total defense, and we are now strongly strengthening the defense with a view to 2% of the bnp. Sweden shall conduct a joint security policy. The EU is our most important foreign and security policy arena. Our security requires a strong transatlantic link and, in the opinion of the Center Party, membership of NATO, hopefully at the same time as Finland. For Sweden and Northern Europe, including the Arctic, NATO membership is even more important after the UK left the EU. Madam President, I would like The government claims that the security policy line is firmly in conflict with a majority of the Swedish parliament. A majority of the parliament has told the government that Sweden, like Finland, will issue a NATO option. It is irresponsible for a minority government to pursue a security policy line that lacks support in Parliament. A responsible government must take responsibility for renewing Swedish security policy so that it can gather broad support in the Riksdag. The government must invite parties to deliberate and implement the announcement by Parliament on NATO option. Here the foreign policy declaration could have answered, but unfortunately it was tone-deaf. It's directly irresponsible by the government. The Center Party now wants to see a system in which the government, as in Finland, presents a security policy statement for parliamentary trials. We want to see an invitation from the government. Madam President, I would like The UN is a cornerstone of Swedish foreign and security policy. The standards that have shaped the international legal order for over 70 years are challenged by various authoritarian regimes, especially China. The Communist Party of China seeks global domination of power by acting with all the means of the state in all the forums to redefine standards and achieve its goals. The Communist Party oppresses the population, kidnaps and incarcerates – even the Swedish author Gui Minhai – commits crimes against humanity, puts Uigurs in Xinjiang in forced camps, and now weekly forced inmates even for preschool children. We condemn, but that is not enough. There is a need for coordinated sanctions against those responsible. The actions of the Communist Party show its true face of violence and repression, including in Hong Kong where journalists, parliamentarians, academics and democracy activists are arrested on orders. We are now increasingly facing a China, a communist party system. It requires a new policy. It requires democracies to be proactive and to form a common strategy to meet the challenges in all areas. It should be a strategy that is broad and deep and does not give the free way to rule by dividing. Madam President, I would like The Kremlin under Putin seeks to recreate its former great power status, wants to create its obedient and buffer states and dreams of the USSR. We see how many Russians defy the brutality, violence and arrests of power from Vladivostok to St. Petersburg. We see them and support them in the demand for real democracy, functioning justice, the end of corruption and the end of human rights violations. The European Court of Human Rights has now for the second time ruled in favour of Navalnyj against Russia. But the Kremlin shows everyone that it is the Kremlin's legal system that applies. The EU, like our friends, must broaden the Magnitsky sanctions to include systematic corruption and money laundering. The EU must stand up to the system on which the Kremlin is based – violence, political justice and corruption. Sanctions have to hit smart and right. Madam President, I would like The world's countries have come together to eradicate poverty and to shape socially, economically and environmentally sustainable development in Agenda 2030 and the Paris climate agreement. Sweden should of course be an active party, globally as well as at home. It is about building resilience, adapting and limiting heating in an inclusive way. The challenges have only increased during the past year of Corona. When we gather now to rebuild, it must be sustainable to get better. Then we must stand up for democracy, human rights and the rule of law that works. The 36 OECD countries need to develop aid strategically. Sweden, as a major donor with our 1 percent of GDP, has an important role to play in achieving results. Mr Ek will comment on that in his speech, just like Lars Thomsson. Madam President, I would like Finally, when it comes to the Nordic region, Linda Modig will talk more about it.
i-45175ea3013b547a-304	Madam President, I would like There is much in Kerstin Lundgren's speech that shows how much consensus there is. It is very positive that Kerstin Lundgren chooses to place so much emphasis on democracy, gender equality and freedom. These are really issues that are not very popular among the majority of governments around the world today, unfortunately. On the other hand, we do not share the same view with regard to NATO. It is a little strange that Kerstin Lundgren says that we have no cooperation between the government and the Center Party and the Liberals on these issues when we put forward together a specialization proposal on total defence where we negotiated in principle every sentence. I also wonder what makes Kerstin Lundgren think that the Moderates would remain in discussions on security policy when they dropped out of the Defence Committee in May 2019. Almost every time we have had such discussions with the parties in the migration talks, in the energy agreement, in the gang talks, in the high-speed rail agreement and in the housing talks, the Moderates have left. What makes Kerstin Lundgren think the Moderates would still be here? It is much better to have discussions in the Foreign Affairs Committee, the EU Council and the Foreign Affairs Committee. There's no risk of anyone dropping out.
i-45175ea3013b547a-308	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your comments. I am surprised, Madam President, because I hear the Foreign Minister hiding behind the Moderates. I think the Foreign Minister should show the courage to step out and really try. We want to see talks, party discussions, the formulation of security policy and the formulation of security policy. Why does the government not want to take that responsibility? Today, the government does not have a majority behind its line – yet it remains firm. Nothing is offered in the foreign policy declaration. And the government representative, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, does not even seem prepared to open the door to talks with a clear focus on reaching agreement on the direction of security policy. Madam President, I would like I think it is a weakness when the government is so clearly avoiding the new situation that has arisen. The government usually refers to this as a reality that provides stability for the whole of Northern Europe. Madam President, I would like I read Sergej Lavrov's comments at the press conference held by the Foreign Minister in Moscow with Mr Lavrov. There he really praises and says that Sweden's policy of not participating in any military alliance is an important factor for regional stability. Madam President, I have not heard anyone else say just that. It is a unique position of the Swedish minority government, and it is not consistent over time. So, Madam President, let us have talks and clarify these issues. Let's have an invitation, Secretary of State!
i-45175ea3013b547a-313	Madam President, I would like No, we're not hiding behind the Moderates. I simply note that in 2002, when Anna Lindh was Minister of Foreign Affairs and I was an international secretary of the Social Democrats, unlike today, we had talks, because it could be trusted that the Moderates stayed seriously in talks. It's not like that anymore. You drop out of everything, even the Defense Committee. Then I do not think it is appropriate to call such talks on such important issues. Of course, it is important that Kerstin Lundgren points to what Lavrov says. That is precisely what we know: if we make a huge change to our security policy, namely NATO membership or something that would mean a rapprochement with NATO, in addition to the very close cooperation we already have, we would have very strong countermeasures, and we do not want that. We want strong cooperation with NATO, but without retaliation.
i-45175ea3013b547a-315	Madam President, I would like I would first like to make it clear to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I was in talks on the security part of the total defence bill. We agreed we didn't agree. That is why we also tabled a joint motion by the Center Party and the Liberals. This is possibly information that the Foreign Minister has missed, but in that case I will make it clear here. This is also the reason behind what became Parliament's decision on a NATO option. Madam President, I would like I think it would be more dressy on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government to listen more to Parliament at the moment than to Sergej Lavrov.
i-45175ea3013b547a-317	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has a long anti-union history – everything from the Cuf campaign Fuck union forever to awarding a prize in the form of a painting with a burning LO castle. Even in an international perspective, trade union rights are a low-priority area for center parties. You are happy to talk about agricultural production but not about the conditions the workers have, whether they harvest the crops or stand in the factories. What is happening at the same time is that trade union rights around the world are under severe pressure. 85% of the world's countries oppose the right to strike and 75% the right to form and join trade unions. In Brazil, workers who organise themselves are murdered, threatened and beaten. In India, those who strike are fired, and in Colombia, the murder of trade unionists is too common. Kerstin Lundgren has during her long time in the Swedish Parliament written 469 motions, and not one of them – I haven't read every page, but overall – is about trade union rights around the world. I wonder why the Center Party dislikes the world's workers.
i-45175ea3013b547a-320	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Håkan Svenneling for studying our motions. However, Madam President, I believe that Håkan Svenneling is nevertheless aware of what we on the Committee on Foreign Affairs tend to say with emphasis: Human rights are universal and indivisible. This, of course, also includes trade union rights. It is not that this is not part of our position. That goes without saying, whether we are talking about Colombia, India or wherever we are going. This is also one of the issues that we will be looking at with great interest with regard to the agreement that the European Union has reached with China, the investment agreement. The question of ILO accession is, of course, one of the important elements because it tends not to follow up what it says. This is one of the issues that we will be studying carefully. So, Madam President, we are absolutely behind the obvious right to organise themselves trade unionally, politically or otherwise. This is a universal right that applies in all countries, in our opinion.
i-45175ea3013b547a-323	Madam President, I would like Then I hope for an increased commitment to trade union rights by Kerstin Lundgren, also in view of the fact that objective 8 of the UN's global goal, Agenda 2030, is about decent working conditions and economic growth. I believe, just as Kerstin Lundgren is concerned, that there are a number of issues in which we need, in the future, to highlight trade union rights, particularly linked to China and to forced labour, which Kerstin Lundgren quickly touched upon in some sense when talking about the situation of the Uighurs there. The Center Party is, of course, part of the government base for the Social Democrats and the Green Party. At the same time, the Centre Party aims to break Swedish labour law. It is important that the government does not allow the Center Party to gain power or influence in attacking the world's workers. They're on the edge, and they're having a rough time already.
i-45175ea3013b547a-325	Madam President, I would like I must inform Mr Svenneling that the Center Party is one of the popular movements that have fought for ordinary people's opportunities to organise themselves and gain trade union rights. There is nothing to say that we want to break either union organisation or labour law. We do, however, want to develop it. What is a threat to labour law and to all those who are fighting out there is, of course, whether we have labour law that shuts in or that shuts people out of the rights that we believe should be universal.
i-45175ea3013b547a-326	Madam President, I would like In last year's foreign policy debate, Kerstin Lundgren and I debated the US peace initiative in the Middle East. Kerstin Lundgren spoke about the so-called "peace plan" of the United States and said, "This is not something that promotes peace and development, either on the ground or in the region." ..................................................... Since then, normalization has taken place between Israel and important parts of the Arab world. Peace agreements with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco have opened up entirely new opportunities for diplomatic relations, increased security, trade and growth, but also for deeper and more general recognition of Israel's right to exist. Madam President, I would like So there is every reason to welcome and rejoice at what is now happening. What we are seeing is an historic development that is ultimately about peace and security for Israel but also for the region. In this connection, I would like to ask: how does Kerstin Lundgren view what she said about the US peace initiative not promoting peace and development either on the ground or in the region?
i-45175ea3013b547a-329	Madam President, I would like I remember very well the change of line between me and Lars Adaktusson during the previous foreign policy debate. The peace initiative we were talking about at the time was the one that would resolve the conflict between Palestine and Israel. Unfortunately, we have not seen any progress there. Of course, I welcome the fact that Israel has reached agreements – these are not direct peace agreements – with a number of Gulf states, Morocco and so on. It is, of course, important to ensure that security is built. I also hope that it will provide a precondition for moving forward in the conflict that remains to be resolved, namely that between Israel and Palestine. With regard to the two-state solution that Lars Adaktusson also says he wants to see, we have not seen anything happen, nor as a result of the agreements that have been reached with a number of Arab states. I therefore welcome the agreements that have been reached and I think they are good. I hope that they can help to create a more secure environment that will also allow you to dare to make more courageous decisions. Unfortunately, I have not seen any clear initiatives in this direction, even after the agreements have been reached. But I hope there will be more.
i-45175ea3013b547a-332	Madam President, I would like The American peace plan is not explicitly or simply about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but about the whole region. I think Kerstin Lundgren is aware of that. It goes without saying that dialogue and negotiations with the Palestinian side are both desirable and necessary. Unfortunately, it has not been possible in recent years, with a Palestinian pipeline that has most recently boiled with that you do not even pick up the phone when the White House calls. Nevertheless, the United States has moved forward positions in the Middle East in a way that decades of European mediation have failed to achieve. The conventional wisdom that peace in the Middle East must begin with a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict no longer applies. I hope that Kerstin Lundgren very much welcomes it.
i-45175ea3013b547a-334	Madam President, I would like No one would be more welcoming than me if we could really see an end to the conflicts in the Middle East. Unfortunately, it is a region that is still ravaged by so many conflicts. There are so many people who are on the run inside their countries or outside their countries. It's a daily suffering – crimes against humanity in many ways – that's going on. We want to see an end to this, and then we must also ensure that solutions are reached that look not only at one side but at several. Unfortunately, we have not been able to see any talks between the Israeli regime, the Trumps regime and the Palestinian regime. It is a sign that we have not achieved the success we might have hoped for and hoped for.
i-45175ea3013b547a-336	Madam President, I would like A year ago, no one spoke of the coronap pandemic when it was a foreign policy debate. Now, a year later, the effects of the pandemic have hit rock hard around the world. It has become clear that the poorest are hardest hit by all. In India, people in the huge informal sector were stopped from working, in Nigeria those who broke the curfew were shot and in Poland abortions have been banned while people have been stopped from protesting against the decision. Madam President, I would like During this parliamentary term, the Left Party has two red lines towards the government: market rents and labour law. And even around the world, the right to housing and the right to safe work are two freedoms that are often curtailed when capital decides. In the documentary Push, we will accompany the UN's former Envoy for Housing Policy on a journey through the world's cities. Even in Stockholm we stop, because here the world's largest venture capital company, Blackstone, has settled down and bought up large stocks of housing. Mathematics is simple: Renovate the surface, shock increase the rent and use loans to other risk projects with the housing as security, because somewhere to live people will always need. Overcrowding in Sweden and the world has been one of the major causes of the rapid spread of infection that we have seen. In the UN Global Agenda 2030 objective, the right to affordable housing is one of the goals. But by allowing venture capital to ravage freely and introduce market rents, the target will never be reached either in Sweden or around the world. The workers of the world keep their eyes on every day. But working conditions are bad, and the right to make your voice heard is often limited, sometimes in Swedish companies. In Mexico Electrolux fired 99 employees who complained about the safety of the factory due to covid-19. But thanks to the fact that activists in Sweden and the Swedish media paid attention to the event, the company changed and acknowledged that they had done wrong. Anyone who lacks security also lacks protection against the Corona virus. Statistics from the United States and Great Britain show that blacks and Latinos are hit harder than whites. The Corona virus has obviously affected both skin color and class differently. Overcrowding and working conditions have been crucial to creating these differences. It is shocking, therefore, when both the rich world and the great medical giants through patents are opposed to countries such as India and South Africa producing cheap vaccines that can reach more. That Sweden plays in this ugly game is incredible. First money is pumped into the companies' research, then they are paid for the doses, and furthermore, they should be paid for their patents. The pharmaceutical industry is currently carrying out an extensive public relations coup, where the world's poor pay the price. Madam President, I would like Turkey's despotic leader Erdo中an is now trying to polish the facade after years of deteriorating relations with Europe. However, European leaders should not be fooled by the new notes from Ankara. Powerfulness, arrests of opponents and dwindling democratic space are still continuing in Turkey. Just recently, 700 have been arrested in an attempt to silence their voices. In the United States, the world finally got rid of Donald Trump. Wrong got those who four years ago said that the US institutions were strong enough to resist a crazy president. Trump hurt the United States and the world more than many of us predicted. The new President Biden has now turned into the US policy on Yemen and stopped arms exports to the Saudi-led coalition, something that even the Swedish government has not been able to cope with despite all the fine words and promises about the allegedly strictest arms export legislation in the world. But it's not all going to be tjo and chim just because Joe Biden is president. Through his long political career, he has shown many examples of imperialist, war-worshiping rhetoric that has caused great human suffering both at home and abroad. If Joe Biden wants to restore multilateralism again, it must also mean that the United States cannot always get exactly what the United States wants. Problems and challenges must be solved together, sometimes also with China and Russia. A global climate crisis is becoming increasingly apparent. The young generation has awakened and requires change, but too many in the older, adult generation seem to be asleep and longing for lost times. There is a serious need for change, and we need to act now. Here the pandemic gives us an opportunity. At this point, we cannot allow capital to determine the rules of the game. Politics must take responsibility and take precedence, otherwise disaster is a fact. This fact has already affected the harvests in Mozambique, the forests of Nicaragua and the indigenous peoples of Oceania. Much of the world's future is determined at the climate summit in Glasgow this autumn. But the rich countries of the world also have a great responsibility to stop tax evasion and to reduce the debt burden of the low-income countries. Sweden is not taking on its responsibilities here today, as the government opposed country-by-country reporting and by not legislating on corporate responsibility for human rights. Sweden is, as I said, Chairman of the OSSE in 2021. It is a difficult and tough mission, as in practice every day there is a verbal wrestling match with Russia about the conditions for the European security regime. Since Putin two decades ago, Europe has not become more secure, but not everything can be blamed on Russia. A warlike rhetoric and armament on the part of NATO are adding to the tensions of security policy on the continent. In Russia the people want to throw out the cleptocracy in the Kremlin, and in Belarus the people want free and fair elections. But the regimes do not shun any means to silence their opponents. Poisoning and mass arrest become commonplace against Russian and Belarus opposition, which needs all our support. Do not let the ugliness of the regimes break our solidarity with the belarusian and Russian peoples' struggles for freedom, justice and democracy. The Coronapandemia was in all probability started in China, and the dictatorship's culture of silence increased the spread of infection and made it difficult for the outside world to understand the risks of the Corona virus. By 2020 was a year when Xi Jinping's regime continued its imperialist policy. Uigurer and other minorities continued to be oppressed by concentration camps and forced labour — to wipe out their religion and culture. Hong Kong introduced the so-called Security Act, which was the end of democracy and freedom of expression and of the principle The brave young generation was brutally crushed by the violence of the state, and now the people of Hong Kong are forced into a dictatorship against their will. We must talk about and make visible the Swedes who are illegally imprisoned around the world, such as Gui Minhai in China, Dawit Isaak in Eritrea and Ahmadreza Djalali in Iran. Following last year's debate, on the initiative of the Left Party and the Moderates, we have now ensured that there will be a commission on the silent diplomacy, particularly in the case of Isaak and Gui Minhai. In just over a year, the investigation will produce interesting results. However, the fact that the Foreign Minister does not even mention this shows a lack of interest, and that is something that concerns me. Madam President, I would like Sweden could do more around the world. If we stop hanging our foreign policy on the European Union, we could make a bigger difference. One such area is the UN and the UN peacekeeping forces in both civilian and military operations. Not since Tage Erlander's time has Sweden had so little staff in UN operations, according to statistics from the Swedish UN Association. The fact that it looks like that is something the government is not happy to talk about. Today, the Left Party is proposing that Sweden should re-prioritise and that the Swedish UN efforts should increase. The UN will never be stronger than the countries of the world leave the UN behind. Then Sweden's voice needs to be stronger than today.
i-45175ea3013b547a-357	Madam President, I would like We can agree with each other on many things in this debate, Håkan Svenneling. What I would like to ask Svenneling is, above all, why it has such an unwillingness to recognise the importance of security and defence cooperation in the EU for Sweden. You're not willing to go in there and work as much as we think you should. The EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena.
i-45175ea3013b547a-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for taking an active part in the debate and taking replies to all Members! I appreciate that. The question you're asking is interesting. The Left Party has long criticised the militarisation of the EU. Even when we voted to join the European Union, the issue of militarisation of the European Union was an important issue that we highlighted. Here you can compare with Denmark, for example. The Left Party in Denmark, SF, has ensured that the Danes have an exception in terms of cooperation in the military field and in the area of justice, where they were very concerned about a great supranationality. It is the same with the question of whether to join EMU and get the euro as a currency. Sweden has no such exceptions, because Carl Bildt was not really interested in it. There's something I'm sorry about. I think that would have been more clarity. I am thinking of when the EU deepens areas that the Swedes were not allowed to take a position on when they voted on EU membership. I have great respect for the fact that Sweden is a member of the European Union and so will remain for a long time, although I will always basically and in my heart and heart be opponents of the European Union. That is also the case for my party, I think. However, the militarisation of the EU concerns me for a number of reasons, including the fact that we see, for example, pushbacks from Frontex on migration. We see that civil and military operations are not really in order. EU military and civilian operations can be found on the same website. It is not clear which operations are military and which are civilian. For example, in the case of Niger, the EU civilian effort is effectively militarised – with ammunition, materials, body armour and so on – in a way that does not favour the ambitions of the efforts. This makes me fundamentally critical of the growing militarisation of the European Union.
i-45175ea3013b547a-364	Madam President, I would like I am surprised that Håkan Svenneling says that the Left Party as a whole is largely critical and negative to EU membership. I had understood that a swing had been made and is now wholeheartedly in favour of membership of the European Union, but that is clearly not the case. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Håkan Svenneling what he thinks is negative for Sweden's security and foreign policy with a stronger foreign and security policy in the EU. That is something we are now discussing. As far as we're concerned, the red line goes by a common defence. We're not interested in that. But I think it is good for Sweden that we are deepening security and defence cooperation in the EU.
i-45175ea3013b547a-366	Madam President, I would like No, but I'll be clear. The Left Party still wants to leave the EU. We want to do it through a referendum. We haven't changed our mind. Perhaps it is our outpost in Hanoi that has discussed other views. I am concerned that Sweden, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government focusing so much on the EU, is losing the important opportunity to be an important voice in the world. This is particularly true of the UN. The UN will never be stronger than we as a country do. Sweden did a good job in the UN Security Council – I think the Social Democrats should have great praise for that. The bourgeoisie at times smeared that time. This led to an evaluation, which concluded that the government had done a good job. I think we should be proud of that. The Foreign Minister is now Chairman of the OSSE. It's something I'm proud of. But I am concerned that if we focus too much on the European Union, we are losing our strength in the UN, in the OSSE and in other international fora for which I want to stand up.
i-45175ea3013b547a-369	Madam President, I would like Yes, you can praise Håkan Svenneling for the formulation of the party's envoy in Hanoi, although I may have more sympathy for his EU-friendly side than Håkan Svenneling has. I find it interesting that Håkan Svenneling stated in his speech that on a number of issues – the Left Party and the Moderates have done so together – the Riksdag has highlighted a different foreign policy line from that of the government and that the government does not sign off on it. There have been many things, therefore, thanks to the Riksdag and despite the government. But there is one question I would like to ask. I know Håkan Svenneling quite well, Madam President. He should be happy that he is politically active now and not 30 to 40 years ago. Then he had been accused by the old Left Party Communists and its predecessor, SKP, of being a revisionist. It's a pretty ugly word in their terminology. Now comes the question of your communist past, or as Young Left says: Young Left analyses reality and formulates its policy with the help of Marxist and feminist theories. Our goal is a classless society, free from oppression – a communist society. This is formulated when your current party leader was active in the Young Left. Communism is not just an ideology that ensures that parliaments are stormed, but that parliaments are shut down. You send elected representatives to camp. You shoot people. The problem with communism, Madam President, is that regimes easily fall around their necks. I am not thinking mainly of Hanoi, but of Venezuela. The problem is also that it repeats narratives saying that NATO and the EU surround Russia, as was done here on a peace day with Russia's ambassador and the former V leader Gudrun Schyman. How do you do, Håkan Svenneling?
i-45175ea3013b547a-377	Madam President, I would like Let us begin with the meeting in Delsbo or Nordanstig, something that not everyone knows about. It was the Left Party in Nordanstig who was co-organizers and had invited for talks with the Russian ambassador. It never happened, precisely because we learned about the meeting and recommended the party association to decide not to participate. So what we are talking about is a meeting that has never happened, even if Klint-Klint-Olle would have played at the meeting itself. I think it was a wise decision of them to cancel this meeting, because I find it difficult to see why representatives of Putin's cleptocracy should be given the opportunity to talk about it. On the other hand, I think that what we wanted to say when we wanted to talk about peace and security in our neighbourhood, that is, reducing tensions, why disarmament agreements and the Start-up Agreement are important and why we need to sign the Nuclear Weapons Convention, are good inputs. But perhaps it should not be done with Russia's ambassador in Sweden. Young Left aims at a classless society, free from oppression. If we stop there, I think that what is basically the core of the Youth League and what you want to achieve is something fine that I think scares the bourgeoisie very deeply – classless society, free from oppression. Young Left consists of young people who organize themselves and get involved politically, and one day some of them become MPs. They are free to decide for themselves, and they choose to call this a communist society. Perhaps I should have chosen a different wording. We can never take the k out of our history. We will never engage in any revision of our history in that way. But let us be clear that the Left Party and the Young Left, as Young Left writes, stand up for the equal value of all people and want to abolish all forms of oppression and exploitation that deprive people of their value.
i-45175ea3013b547a-382	Madam President, I would like The problem is that communism is not just a small word or a boiling marker. It's the name of a violent ideology. That is why it becomes serious, and then it throws battle shadows even over one in many ways vamable Håkan Svenneling, Madam President. This can be passed on when one looks at the party's relationship with the dictatorship of Venezuela and the inability to recognise Guaidó as the legitimate representative. Krampically, they hold on to Maduro, who is persecuting his people. As far as the meeting in Nordanstig is concerned, I have, in any case, responded to articles from Frivärd and Helahälsingland, where it has been proud that this meeting has been conducted. My problem is that at least in the invitation there was a Left Party Logo, along with an Environmental Party Logo, inviting Russia's ambassador!
i-45175ea3013b547a-384	Madam President, I would like If we pause for a while at the word, then let's be clear that the word consists of the rank and file, the same form of the municipality, which once led to the name of our municipalities, i.e. community. That is the basis for it. I think that is perhaps what Young Left is looking for, i.e. the old 19th century definition of communism. It is a very benevolent interpretation, and I think it should be understood that since the 20th century, where we have seen a lot of Communist dictatorships who have committed disgusting human rights violations. Bourgeois politicians will never let go of the opportunity to make the link back to these dictatorships. If, in the wise democratic spirit of the Young Left, you decide to reword this paragraph, it is in any case my recommendation to do so. However, it is up to Young Left to decide. I will never interfere with what they decide. Unfortunately, I do not have time to answer about Venezuela, but there will be more politicians coming after us who will certainly ask about it.
i-45175ea3013b547a-388	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has a story that I didn't intend to go into much. On the other hand, we know that in modern times the Left Party has been involved in providing aid to pro-Russian separatists. There have been contacts with various people in both the villain state of Venezuela and the villain state of Cuba. Titt we also see tributes from left-wing parties to the leadership of these countries and the policies pursued there. V-members from the Swedish Parliament have met people from Group 194. Håkan Svenneling has met a DFLP activist, a person who has been described as part of this organization's leadership, together with party friends from the Left Party and also a couple of social democrats. DFLP has carried out a long series of terrorist attacks and still has an active militant branch in Gaza. This organization has close links to the Left Party. This organisation has representatives that Håkan Svenneling himself has met. Madam President, I would like How does Håkan Svenneling really view this? How does it rhyme with the view of democracy that he claims to represent?
i-45175ea3013b547a-392	Madam President, I would like In fact, when Markus Wiechel talks about aid to pro-Russian separatists, I do not know at all what he is referring to, but he can certainly develop that. As far as Cuba is concerned, we have been very clear that we are critical of the regime's human rights violations. At the same time, we have made it clear that, despite over 60 years of blockade on the part of the United States, the progress made by Cuba must also be recognised. As far as Venezuela is concerned, we have been very clear that we do not think that Guaidó should be recognised as the leader of Venezuela, which we also see has not helped anything. Two years have passed, and we still have a political crisis in Venezuela. However, we do not adhere to Mr Maduro, but think that his serious violations of human rights must be highlighted. He must also find a way forward for democratic elections to be held again in Venezuela. With regard to Palestinian activists, whom Markus Wiechel wants to talk about, the situation on the ground in Israel and Palestine is one of the world's most long-winded, tough conflicts where both sides have committed violations of various human rights and used methods that are absolutely not tolerable. DFLP has clearly committed terrorist crimes, but we also need to see where we are today, 2021. The DFLP is one of the left-wing parties who want to run the planned parliamentary elections and who have the ambition to build a democratic Palestine. The challenge is that Israel is an occupying power and determines the conditions for the elections that could possibly be held in May, and Israel will certainly want to use it as an opportunity to demarcate Jerusalem from the rest of Palestine. This means keeping an eye on Israel so that Palestine can hold free and democratic elections. There I hope that the DFLP can do it and also the PFLP, for that matter.
i-45175ea3013b547a-397	Madam President, I would like Did I hear you right? Did Håkan Svenneling really compare organizations like DFLP with Israel and claim that both sides have committed some misdemeanours? DFLP has committed serious terrorist crimes, not once or twice, but a lot of times. They've kidnapped people based solely on whether they're Jews or not. It is a deeply anti-Semitic organisation that has shown no sign of representing the democracy that Håkan Svenneling claims to represent. He compares this with Israel. I don't understand that. As for aid to pro-Russian separatists, it was in Aftonbladet that it was revealed that the Left Party had flown hundreds of thousands of crowns to the organization Borotba in Ukraine. Otherwise, I was going to go into the Communist Youth League of the Left Party, but unfortunately I do not have time for that.
i-45175ea3013b547a-401	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it feels like we have to teach Markus Wiechel that Israel is an occupying power against Palestine. This means occupying the land of another country and that, as an occupying power, you have responsibility for the order of the country, if it is possible to conduct elections, which health care people have access to, and so on. That is what the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is all about – Israel occupying Palestine. If you forget it, you also forget many of the things that happen in the conflict. I'm never going to reduce or explain terror crimes. They've happened. The DFLP has been responsible for such things throughout history, but in my opinion, the DFLP is today a party that is trying to stand in a planned election and that wants to be a force for the people of Palestine – a left-wing movement. This means that I have absolutely no problem meeting the party and their representatives. Rather, I hope that it will contribute to democracy in Palestine.
i-45175ea3013b547a-403	Madam President, I would like I am still a little curious about what is the left-wing security policy line. I heard that the Left Party does not share the Foreign Minister's position on the importance of cooperation in the EU. I wonder: Is the Left Party behind the government's foreign policy line? Is the Left Party behind a solidarity policy? If so, what does a solidarity security policy mean for the Left Party? As I hear the demands for sanctions from the Left Party, Madam President, I would also like to know whether the Left Party is prepared to support our call for the introduction of Magnitsky sanctions not only in respect of human rights but also for systematic corruption and money laundering. The Left Party did not support that demand on Friday, Madam President, so I am curious as to whether the Left Party could have changed its mind since then.
i-45175ea3013b547a-405	Madam President, I would like One of my ambitions as a foreign policy spokesperson is that the Left Party's options should be clearer in the political debate. We are clearly opposed to NATO; we think it would contribute to increased tension in our neighbourhood if we joined NATO and contribute to increased tension in the way NATO does. NATO has an incredible number of military bases around Russia, with a clear aim against Russia. That is not to say that we think the alternative is not to equip the defence, because we think so. We think it is a good thing that the defence is being upgraded. We stand for a somewhat slower rearmament than other parties, but we believe that the security policy threats to Sweden have increased. We want to see increased cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, especially with Finland, and we are deeply committed to this. We are not behind the government either in their security policy or in their foreign policy, but we have our own line that I feel is to the left of the government. We agree with some of the basic values and the things the government stands for – we are critical of voting through NATO options and so on – but we are much clearer about the desire to work with nuclear disarmament, nuclear-free zones and such things. So we are trying to be clear in a number of areas with our political proposals on how we think we could contribute to disarmament, low tension and reduced tension in relation to Russia and the European continent. As far as Kerstin Lundgren's second question, on sanctions, is concerned, we will have to analyse it. I think that we must fundamentally combat corruption, and the Left Party has put forward several proposals. A year ago we had a change of line on country-by-country reporting where I criticised the Center Party for not having supported us and the Christian Democrats in the attempt to get country-by-country reporting through. I have not looked in enough detail at this proposal and what it would mean to dare say a straight yes or no today, but of course we shall fight corruption.
i-45175ea3013b547a-412	Madam President, I would like I heard that the Left Party is not behind the government's security policy line either. It seems that the support for the same is becoming narrower and narrower and thinner and thinner. This also suggests that there should be an invitation to talks on the security policy approach. What does the Left Party think about this issue? Then, of course, I wonder about the solidarity policy, Madam President, because it did not mention Håkan Svenneling – at least not so that I heard it. What is the Left Party's position in that part? I have a small comment to make. This is not about NATO, Madam President, but about the Nordic countries. It is about Norway, a NATO country, and about our Baltic neighbours who want to see greater security and build barriers and thresholds to build security together with others. Shouldn't we?
i-45175ea3013b547a-415	Madam President, I would like There will be many questions to answer in one minute, but I will speed up. We think that the government should invite more often to talks on foreign policy issues. We think there is an opportunity to use the fact that the Left Party and the Center Party are closer to the government than other parties in this Parliament. Together we have 175 mandates, which is why we should be able to obtain a majority in the Swedish Parliament more often if we worked together. It is a path that the government has not yet chosen, but I think that should be done. With regard to talks on what Kerstin Lundgren is interested in, i.e. the NATO option, I think that it should be postponed to the next defence committee. This is how we deal with security policy in the Swedish parliament. It will certainly be in place in 2022, and it will be able to analyse what the NATO option means. Kerstin Lundgren sometimes paints a picture of the NATO option in Finland which, when we have examined it, has proved to be out of tune with reality – possibly on bourgeois leadership pages in Finland and Sweden. As far as solidarity policy is concerned, I do not have much time to post the text, but of course we will help each other if there is a conflict in our neighbourhood.
i-45175ea3013b547a-419	Madam President, I would like Recently, the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust was recognised, and this year it was also on the Palestinian Authority's television channel. It stated that before World War II the Jews were hated for their racism and dirty behavior. Furthermore, it was taught that the Holocaust was the price the Jews paid for their wicked conduct, their conspiracies, and their malice. Anti-Semitism is common in the media and public debate in Palestinian areas. Since freedom of the press does not exist, it is the regime that controls the messages that are being transmitted to the population. Anti-Semitism is thus high in the Palestinian leadership, which is serious and has consequences. According to the international organisation Anti-Defamation League, Palestinian territories have the most anti-Semitic population in the world – 87% of Palestinians agree with the claim that people hate Jews because of how they behave. Madam President, I would like In a committee motion, the Left Party states that the occupation is the cause of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I would therefore like to ask Håkan Svenneling: should it not be said that it is the hatred of Jews and the threat of annihilating the Jewish state that is the cause of the conflict?
i-45175ea3013b547a-422	Madam President, I would like These are disgusting statements that Lars Adaktusson refers to. There's nothing else to say. The hatred that exists between Israelis and Palestinians is disgusting in many ways. When you visit the area I think you are struck by how incredibly tough the situation on the ground is in different ways. I have visited Israeli homes where there are bomb rooms for people to protect themselves if bombs fall, and I have visited Palestinian homes where people see Israeli sentries from their windows. That is the reality on the ground. I believe that we, from the outside world, must do everything we can to find a peaceful solution to Israel – the Palestine conflict. One such way would be for Palestine to be democratised and to hold democratic elections. Now they're planned in the middle of a difficult coronapandemia. It would do much if the Palestinian people were given the opportunity to elect their leaders in democratic and fair elections, for it is clear that as long as there is no parliament as the Swedish Parliament, there is no parliament that controls those in power, whether it is television channels or those in power. That is why I would like the Palestinian Parliament to start meeting again. When it comes to what is the cause of the conflict, I think it is a bit of a chicken-or-egg discussion that Adaktusson is embarking on. What we are seeing is that Israel is an occupying power, that there is still unrest on the ground and that peace agreements and negotiations have not come to the fore. This means that we must take up the baton and try to help each other in order to contribute to a peaceful solution to the world's longest conflict and the UN's greatest failure.
i-45175ea3013b547a-426	Madam President, I would like I think it honours Håkan Svenneling that he is so clearly distancing himself from the terrible statements that this is all about. It is nevertheless important to establish what caused this conflict, and if you do so in the way that the Left Party does, you ignore important facts. The Arab attacks that took place in 1948 and 1967, when Israel's neighbours attacked, were carried out before there was any occupation. Thus, occupation is not the basis, but the basis is hatred of Jews and the declared goal of annihilating the Jewish state. I find it surprising that the Left Party is turning a blind eye to this, and I hope that the Left Party wishes to correct and modify that position.
i-45175ea3013b547a-429	Madam President, I would like The starting point of the Left Party is international law and respect for human rights. There have been violations of both international law and human rights by both Israeli military and Israel and by Palestinian groups. It's obvious. But it becomes clear if you look at Gaza, for example, during a pandemic like this. In Gaza, 2 million people live, trapped in a small area with a large wall around it, guarded by the Israeli military. It is an incredible human suffering in Gaza right now, during the pandemic. It is difficult to obtain clean water, it is difficult to manage its livelihood, and everything is governed by what Israel lets through the passages they control. There are disgusting terrorist groups inside Gaza, no talk about that, but you punish an entire people. It is collective punishment that is taking place in Gaza right now, and the world must raise its voices so that we condemn the human suffering there.
i-45175ea3013b547a-432	Madam President, I would like The other week we were told that the Left Party Youth League has established that it is dreaming of a communist society. I've been thinking about this a little bit. How is it possible that in 2021 a congress of a youth federation to a parliamentary party is established that it wants a communist society? Is there a lack of information about the abuses that have been committed? Is this about people who are clumsy? Are there shortcomings in school? Is there no empathy for the victims? It is extremely strange that 30 years after the Left Party removed that k in the party name the Youth League wants to put it back. This has certain consequences, Madam President, also for foreign policy. Sweden has 21 members of the European Parliament. Twenty of them were able to vote in favour of condemning the dictatorship in Venezuela. However, one Member voted against this condemnation, namely that of the Left Party. Why? A number of representatives of the Left Party are also deeply involved and also elected representatives in the Swedish lobby organisation of the Cuban dictatorship regime. Somewhere here, Madam President, there will be a problem for the Left Party with democratic credibility. Håkan Svenneling is excellent in his criticism of the abuse in Turkey, the abuse in China and so on. But it becomes so selective when, at the same time with the other hand, you very sorely rub regimes in Nicaragua, Cuba and Venezuela and hold them back. What's the deal, Håkan Svenneling?
i-45175ea3013b547a-438	Madam President, I would like If there are shortcomings in school, it is probably Liberals' fault that the young people have it, I think. Young Left is a democratic organisation, where young people organise themselves politically. They decide for themselves what they want to write in their principle program, and I'm not going to decide what kind of name they should have. They have chosen a way of writing and a choice of words that I think misses the goal of the political debate and reality today. Instead of focusing on whether to use a k-word or not, you should talk about the second k-word, that is, about capitalism and the problems of capitalism. As far as Venezuela is concerned, it is right, as Mrs Malm says, that we vote differently from other parties in the European Parliament. This is because, in addition to the condemnation that the European Parliament rightly adds to its statements and resolutions, it persists in recognising Juan Guaidó as President of Venezuela. That is basically what I have problems with, because it is not for the European Parliament to decide who is the leader in Venezuela. That is what Venezuela's people are going to do, and we have made it clear that that is what it is all about. I recommend that Fredrik Malm and everyone else read Malin Björk's explanations of vote when she votes on resolutions on Venezuela. We are very clear about what we actually mean. We think that Maduro is doing shit, that he is violating human rights, but we do not want to recognise Juan Guaidó as Venezuela's leader. As far as Cuba is concerned, we in the Left Party have for a long time been clear in our criticism of the human rights shortcomings in Cuba. At the same time, we have seen shortcomings in the rest of you in not being able to recognise the progress in the welfare that is still taking place in Cuba, and we think that dialogue should be held with Cuba. That is why we, the Moderates and the Government voted for the EU to have dialogue and agreements with Cuba. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I would ask the honourable Member to have a well-kept language. ) What did I say?
i-45175ea3013b547a-446	You said a four-letter word that starts with s and ends in kit. I must not repeat it to the President. Madam President, I would like Having these replica shifts with left-wing parties is kind of like having it with Swedish democrats. We are not xenophobic, we stand for all this good and fine. But in practice, in the subvegetation of the Party, in the Party's publications and what you write on Twitter and so on, another picture emerges. It is the same, Madam President, with the Left Party. Håkan Svenneling says that the Left Party is very critical of Nicolá Maduro in Venezuela and of the repression in Cuba. But in practice, it is a lot of members who cherish these leaders, who stand behind this oppression, who are even inspired by it, and the Party Youth League wants to introduce a communist society. I'm not making this right. It's kind of unbelievable.
i-45175ea3013b547a-450	Madam President, I would like I will inform Fredrik Malm that the foreign policy of the Left Party is determined by me here in the Swedish Parliament. It is not decided in Northanstig or in Lomma or at the Young Left Congress. I decide what the foreign policy of the Left Party is, and that is what I am saying. We think it's too fucked up when human rights violations are committed. We do not support any form of dictatorship, but we believe that democracy should prevail. We therefore think it is a good thing to support democratic processes. What we are seeing in Venezuela is a political crisis that has been going on for over two years. The world around us has deepened and strengthened the political crisis by continuing with resolution after resolution and sanctioning. I am surprised that Malm and others are not reading, for example, UN experts' statements that unilateral sanctions against Venezuela must be stopped because they contribute to human suffering. That is why I have a different position from Fredrik Malm when it comes to Venezuela, for example. ( First VICE TALMANN: I repeat my request for cherished language. )
i-45175ea3013b547a-455	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by mentioning three compatriots for whom the government's foreign declaration did not make room: Dawit Isaak, Gui Minhai and Ahmadreza Djalali. All are imprisoned in brutal dictatorships, and all are denied an impartial judicial review. Until the day they return home, the demand for their immediate release will be repeated from this pulpit. When short-sightedness and real politics characterise decision-making, Christian democracy stands for a value-based foreign policy based on Christian ethics and human rights. We in the Christian Democrats are warm friends of Europe. We know that cross-border problems such as pandemic control and climate change can only be resolved jointly. We are in favour of a Europe that speaks with one voice in foreign policy and strengthens transatlantic cooperation. Against this background, it is crucial that Sweden applies for membership of NATO as soon as possible. The fact that there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament for a Swedish NATO option is welcome, and this leads to a conclusion. The government must realise this. The government must act – for this there is no need for further meetings in Rosenbad. Madam President, I would like Since last year's foreign policy debate, authoritarian regimes and dark forces have continued to suppress people's longing for freedom and democracy. Around the world, millions of courageous people in peaceful manifestations have been faced with brutal violence and repressive measures. Let it be quite clear: the Christian Democrats are on the side of democracy. In Belarus, Nagorno-Karabakh, Myanmar and Venezuela, the populations and civil society have our full support. Since last year's debate, a new President has been installed in the United States. According to the new administration, China is not a foreign policy issue but a foreign policy issue. Developments in the People's Republic are deeply worrying. As a result of the decisions taken, the power of the Communist Party is strengthened at the expense of human dignity, freedom and democratic reforms. In recent times, religious persecution has increased against Christians and Muslims. In Xinjiang province, about a million Uighurs are tortured and brainwashed. In Hong Kong, the infamous security laws of the Beijing regime provide for politically motivated prosecution of peaceful demonstrators. In Taiwan, freedom and democracy are attacked by threatening Chinese outcomes that independence means war. At the same time, there is growing concern about Russia's actions. The Despotin in Moscow poses a serious security threat to Europe in the Baltic Sea region and in the Black Sea region. The killings in eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea illustrate the purpose of the strong military armament. In the Middle East, Russia's actions contribute to serious destabilisation by supporting the brutal dictatorships in Syria and Iran. Domestic policy is also a source of concern. Poisoning of opposition leader Navalnyj, violent crackdown on peaceful demonstrators, restricted freedom of expression, growing poverty and increasing corruption in power elites – it's Vladimir Putin's Russia 2021. One of the greatest and most serious threats to international peace and security is Iran. In my shift with the Foreign Minister, I highlighted the country's warfare and directly destructive role in the Middle East – in Yemen, Syria, Lebanon and Iraq. At the same time, the billion-dollar roll continues to Islamist terrorist organisations such as Hizbollah and Hamas. Madam President, I would like China, Russia and Iran are three dictatorships whose ambitions of power extend far beyond their own borders. In the security-threatening activities carried out in our country, China, Russia and Iran are the main threats. Each country must relate to system-threatening activities, but few countries are able to do so on their own. In order to influence authoritarian powers, international cooperation and joint action are an absolute necessity. In every democracy, freedom of religion is a foundation. Of the world's 2.3 billion Christians today, half a billion are denied freedom of worship. Although this is not mentioned in the foreign declaration, Christians are the most persecuted group in the world, and the situation has worsened during the time that the world has been plagued by the pandemic. In the Middle East, in 2014 we saw religious persecution turn into genocide on Assyrians/Syrians and Chaldeans. Despite the tremendous events, the Swedish Government refuses to recognise this genocide. In the same way, the government chooses not to recognize seyfo, the Armenian genocide in 1915, despite a stated promise by Stefan Löfven. This, Madam President, is to betray the weakest and the most vulnerable. That is to compromise with values of human dignity and humanity, that is, those values that should guide Swedish foreign policy.
i-45175ea3013b547a-472	Madam President, I would like We are all aware of Lars Adaktusson's opposition to abortion and how he voted against abortion 22 times in the European Parliament. That is why I ask: what does Lars Adaktusson think about the tightening up of abortion laws in EU countries such as Poland, which now have abortion rules which in principle make it impossible for women to have abortions? And how is it to be arranged that there is no more discrimination against LGBTI people, for example through counter-adoptions for same-sex couples?
i-45175ea3013b547a-473	Madam President, I would like I did not think I would hear the Swedish Foreign Minister sink so low in his argumentation. I have not once voted against abortion during my time in the European Parliament. I have voted against raising the issue of abortion at European level. That is what my votes have been about, nothing else. The fact that the Foreign Minister is spreading lies and slanderous tasks is spectacular. This has been in a lot of magazines. It has been used by political opponents. But, Ann Linde, that's not true. Please respect my opinion! It is the same as my party's view on this issue. And I am pleased that in this Parliament there are eight parties that stand for legal and safe abortions. The Christian Democrats do, I do, and so do I when it comes to access to abortion outside the borders of the country. What we think is right and proper in our country is, of course, right and proper in other countries as well. As far as the terrible discrimination against LGBT people around the world is concerned, I have voted many times in my time in the European Parliament in favour of action being taken against those countries that engage in this kind of atrocious activity or atrocious activity. The Christian Democrats, Ann Linde, stand for human dignity, regardless of sexual orientation, regardless of gender, regardless of political opinion and regardless of ethnic origin.
i-45175ea3013b547a-477	Madam President, I would like I did not understand that it was an answer to my question as to what Lars Adaktusson thinks about the fact that a country in the EU has now introduced such strict abortion laws. I also wonder how Lars Adaktusson believes that we should work on sexual and reproductive health and LGBTQ people's rights globally.
i-45175ea3013b547a-478	Madam President, I would like I don't know what's so hard to understand, Minister. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not know how the Christian Democrats have acted in the European context with regard to both Poland and Hungary and the developments that are taking place there? We have been leaders in our own group in excluding Fidesz from the EPP Group. Similarly, we have marked stone hard against what is happening in Poland. What's the Secretary of State after? This is some kind of suspicion that is a symptom of the black-painting that the Social Democrats have committed. You are not behind Donald Trump when it comes to arguing in a polarizing and directly harmful way. Stop it! Stick to the facts and respect the views that both I and my party stand for!
i-45175ea3013b547a-480	Madam President, I would like I would like to give Lars Adaktusson the opportunity to really make it clear that human rights are women's rights and that women's rights are human rights, because it is so important that representatives of Christian democracy are clear that women have the right to their bodies and that women have the right not only to their sexual and reproductive health but also to their rights. This is something that has been hard hit during the last Trump administration, when so-called gag rules were introduced again, something that Biden has now stopped. But there have been signals that all civil society organisations and others who are working precisely to ensure women's rights have been attacked and not allowed to work. I have not heard the Christian Democrats take the fight on these issues. I know that Lars Adaktusson is a person who is prepared to stand up for them, so I hope, Madam President, that we in this House today will have a clear statement from Lars Adaktusson that Christian democracy fully stands up for women's sexual health and reproductive rights.
i-45175ea3013b547a-482	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren asks me if we stand up for women's rights and women's health. In this Parliament, there are eight parties that do so. Why is she asking me the question? It goes without saying that we are doing it, and we have been doing it for as long as I know it. This is a suspicion or a way of pasting labels on both myself and the Christian Democrats that I strongly oppose. I would really like to emphasise that it is not acceptable in a democratic debate to be put on the line or set off views that one does not have. Listen to what I say, listen to what the Party says and stop ascribing both to me and to my party opinions that we do not have! There are no proposals whatsoever to restrict women's rights, women's freedom or women's right to their own bodies. There are no such proposals in either the Christian Democratic Party or the parliamentary group here in this House. There is also no such thing as from other parties. But why should we answer this? To put the question to Kerstin Lundgren if the Center Party stands up for women's rights and for the right to free and legal abortions is about as justified as it is to ask me the question. I think, once again, that we can do better than this in the Swedish political debate.
i-45175ea3013b547a-486	Madam President, I would like I was clear about the SRHR in my speech. And I believe, Madam President, that it is important for us from the Swedish Parliament to be clear that this is an issue that applies. I didn't paste on any label. I gave the opportunity for Lars Adaktusson to be clear that SRHR is also an issue for the Christian Democrats. Of course, it is up to everyone to consider why questions arise. But one of the things that is happening is that many representatives of friends of Lars Adaktusson's party – be it in Poland or elsewhere, also Trump and the Republics drove that line – think that this is something that is not okay. I have not heard Lars Adaktusson and the Christian Democrats take the fight. We have done so, Madam President, and I hope that we can do it together because I believe what Lars Adaktusson says.
i-45175ea3013b547a-489	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, if Kerstin Lundgren has not heard Christian Democrats take the fight, she has listened poorly. This is happening all the time in our defence of human dignity, human rights, women's rights and what is fundamental in any democratic society, namely respect for people regardless of sexual orientation, gender, ethnic background and so on. It's a constant struggle. We stand on the barricades in that fight, and that, of course, also includes the issues of women's rights. I am surprised, Kerstin Lundgren, that I am to be questioned in this way – because there is a question behind this – by a representative of the Center Party.
i-45175ea3013b547a-491	Madam President, I would like The world is in a critical position. There is every reason to look very seriously at how democratic institutions around the world are undermined, attacked and also dismantled in some places. Hundreds of millions of people are threatened by starvation. Millions of people have been driven by conflicts and climate change. But the prospects are not completely black. We can also influence our future. We now have the opportunity to leave old wheel tracks. We have seen in the past how countries, communities and people can change. What we choose to do with our societies when we come out of the terrible pandemic we are now suffering will, of course, have far-reaching consequences for our societies. Madam President, I would like This applies to the climate, but also to security policy and democracy. Sweden is a small country, but we still have a relatively large influence. We have limited resources, but we still devote a fairly large part of our budget to, for example, aid. We have diplomatic tools to influence other countries and organisations, and of course we must use them as effectively as possible. We must always raise the issue of human rights and democracy in contact with undemocratic states. We must also dare to criticise democratic countries if they violate human rights. Madam President, I would like This month marks a trend break for Europe. This is the first time that the EU zone has been trading more with China than with the United States. After four years of arduous relations with the United States, we must now look to the future. China cannot be allowed to buy itself an even stronger influence over Europe and Sweden. We have seen how China uses investments as pressures of power worldwide. They buy ports and other sensitive infrastructure in developing countries and offer investments without human rights requirements. This has also led, for example, to the fact that countries that have previously recognised Taiwan are no longer doing so. We cannot afford to remain naive about China. China's violations of demonstrators in Hong Kong have been going on for over two years. At the same time, Chinese companies are allowed to buy influence in Sweden. 2021 must be a turning point for the Swedish approach to China. Of course, we must also be clear about the enormous abuses committed by the Chinese state against the Uighur minority population in western China. Madam President, I would like This applies not only to China but also to Russia. Russia is the biggest security threat to Sweden and has been so for a very long time. Russian missiles from Kaliningrad can reach large parts of Sweden. Our Baltic democratic neighbours are constantly subjected to violations and provocations from Russia. We have seen violence against demonstrators after Navalnyj was arrested and in Belarus where the regime is close to Putin. These abuses testify to the brutality of regimes and to the fact that large sections of the population of Russia and Belarus have grown tired of authoritarian rule. It is perhaps too early to say that these regimes are rocking, but it may well come to such a point soon. Sweden must be on the side of the democratic movement in this, and we must be on the side of democracy in the Baltic States. This also applies, of course, to Ukraine. Madam President, I would like The environment and climate are a matter of destiny for us humans and for our planet. It cannot be expressed clearly enough. We also need to take care of that. As a result of a decrease in growth, emissions decreased globally in 2020. When we invest globally and get back from the pandemic recession, we now have the opportunity to do so in a more climate-friendly way. European investment in green technologies and infrastructure can combine growth with a sustainable future. We must also encourage other countries to do so. Our foreign policy should be used actively to safeguard global emission reduction agreements, strengthen technology transfer, contribute to climate change and much more. Madam President, I would like Sweden should also act in favour of a common CO2 tax in the European Union and for the better functioning of the emissions trading system. The long-term objective should be to create a global price of carbon dioxide, just as we have an oil price, a gold price and so on. A global price of CO2 would be the most effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The effects of climate change also create geopolitical tensions. People are forced to move or flee because water supply is reduced or because agricultural land no longer produces as it used to. This in itself is a major risk globally. Madam President, I would like The climate issue is also linked to democracy. More fossil-free energy reduces our dependence on oil and gas, which are often imported from undemocratic states which, to put it mildly, are quite rough-handed. By breaking the dependence on oil, oil-producing countries are also forced to switch to more climate-friendly production. It is important that we look to the future with optimism, despite the enormous tragedies that exist. Dissidents in Havana prison have no freedom, but we do. Our forests, oceans and animals have no right to vote, but we do. The refugees from the Horn of Africa who sit in refugee camps in Kenya have no financial resources, but we do. Therefore, the prosperous, democratic and free Sweden also has a responsibility to stand up for people and climate.
i-45175ea3013b547a-504	Madam President, I would like I note that Fredrik Malm and the Liberals have a common understanding with the Social Democrats on many issues, not least with regard to the defence of democracy and human rights and the importance of openly criticising countries such as Turkey, Iran, Russia and China when they violate this. But now to another question. In several areas, the Liberals want to go further than other parties when it comes to taking decisions in the EU and moving away from national decision-making rights. We have discussed this on several occasions in the EU Council. My question is therefore: in which areas the European Union is not taking supranational decisions today, the Liberals want to introduce supranational decisions?
i-45175ea3013b547a-507	Madam President, I would like It is true that the Liberals want to deepen European cooperation more than the other seven parties in Parliament want, and there are a number of important arguments for doing so. First of all, we have enormous challenges that the European continent and the European Union must cope with. We went through a major financial crisis ten years ago, we had the migration crisis five years ago, we have an ongoing climate crisis and there may be new crises in the future. Our view is that the only way for Europe to really manage to deal with this in the long term is by deepening European cooperation. I find it difficult to see that this can actually be done in so many other ways than pushing for more decisions by qualified majority, for example. This is by no means problem-free, to be said. It can also mean that there are certain contradictions as some countries may feel that they are often run over. I think that, with regard to human rights procedures and developments in, for example, Poland and Hungary, there are a number of countries in the European Union that do not want to take responsibility in any way for setting up asylum seekers and refugees. There may be a need for the EU to be able to make progress, make decisions and act, and not allow a Viktor Orbán to be a brake block for all the other Member States. I also think that we have a responsibility towards the citizens of Europe to be able to make important strategic decisions and that everything is not blocked in the processes.
i-45175ea3013b547a-511	Madam President, I would like I'll let Fredrik Malm continue a little on this line. For our part, we have a red line on defence and security policy, and it goes with a common defence. We do not want Europe to have a common defence. This is something that some countries talk about when we discuss the so-called strategic compass, so it is a live discussion in Europe. How do the Liberals view this, Fredrik Malm? Where's your red line? Would you be prepared to go as far as the French have said that they want to do and, for example, have more of a common European defence?
i-45175ea3013b547a-512	Madam President, I would like We can look at our continent, the European Union, our neighbourhood, the Middle East region and the Western Balkans – it was not very long since there were major conflicts there, in Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on. We have the problem with Russia, and we have quite a few states in North Africa, not least Libya, where there is complete chaos. I believe that the question must be asked as a European: do we think that an EU defence that does not even exist would be able to deal with the whole problem we face, without a very strong transatlantic link with the United States? I don't think so. For my part, as a liberal, I would rather put NATO cooperation and relations with the United States in front of acting for some sort of joint European defence. Then, of course, we can understand that you can have a different view in Paris – that's not a secret – but that doesn't necessarily mean that Sweden should adhere to that position.
i-45175ea3013b547a-514	Madam President, I would like There are not many other debates in this House that show more clearly than this one that we are part of the world. Being a part of the world is also sharing the challenges we face together in solidarity. I will say a few words about solutions for the coronapandemy, the climate crisis, reaching the global goals, the Paris Agreement, the effects of feminist foreign policy and democracy. A global pandemic has reaped lives, threatened human health and rocked large economies. No one has done well, but not everyone has done as badly. In all crises, the same pattern is repeated: The most vulnerable are hardest hit. Unlike many other events in the world around us, the coronapander has taken place inside the skin of each of us. When the crisis is around every corner, it is difficult to see outside your own world, but it becomes all the more important. We must work to ensure that risk groups in all countries are vaccinated at a rapid rate to get out of the pandemic. That is why the government's support for the WHO vaccination programme Covax is incredibly important. Creating an equal recovery is the key to a green and inclusive climate transition in which all countries, regardless of GDP, can participate. Sweden will continue to contribute by dedicating 1 percent of GDP to aid. Madam President, I would like At the same time, there is another crisis: climate change. Every year when we fail to reduce emissions, it is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The fact that the United States has now taken the step back into the Paris Agreement is good, but much more is needed to speed up the climate transition. The longer we wait with measures, the greater the consequences. On an earth where the conditions for life are deteriorating and where the areas in which it is possible to live become less and less, crises, wars and famines will spread. The UN was created to bring more security into an uncertain world. Then cooperation, conflict management and international law became tools used in the service of peace. Now we must use the UN as a collective force also to achieve all the objectives of Agenda 2030, despite the decline we see during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like It matters who decides, both in Sweden and in the world, and what we have been given the confidence to decide do. The feminist foreign policy that Sweden has pursued since the Green Party joined the government has been both hailed and mocked. What it means in practice is that it contributes to peace and security in some of the world's most vulnerable areas. In Afghanistan, the situation between the cease-fire and the flare-up of conflict always hangs on a thread. But peace talks are ongoing, and here Sweden's support makes a difference: now women are also in the negotiating rooms. Feminist foreign policy builds societies. Where women are given power and influence, peace is prolonged, and where women are admitted to the labour market and can both own and use the land, poverty is countered back. Priorities in Swedish aid have, among other things, given more girls access to schooling, provided hospitals with midwives and given women the right conditions to lead a work for peace and democratic development in their local communities. Madam President, I would like To every man in the world who uses his power to deprive women of the right to his own body, oppress minorities, ignore the climate and oppose democracy, Sweden's voice is clear: we see what you are doing, and we will not accept the dismantling of respect for human rights. The current developments in Poland and Hungary are one of the biggest challenges facing European cooperation. Europe must be a guarantor of the freedoms that it was founded to preserve, and if we do not cope with that situation, it will be incredibly serious. Where populist and xenophobic parties have taken power and make democratic development reverse, there is no alternative but to look at, examine and demand responsibility. Now, for the first time, the European Commission has presented a report on the status of democracy in the Union. It is long awaited and something that Europe's Greens have been at the forefront for a long time. The report is being discussed in all parliaments of the European Union, and it will make visible both shortcomings and merits in the democratic work of the Member States. Madam President, I would like Free speech is under threat in more and more countries. Journalists, human rights fighters and environmentalists are threatened, imprisoned and murdered. The violations of democratic and human rights have increased during the pandemic year, and governments in several countries are using the pandemic as an opportunity to oppress and silence dissidents. Sweden cannot quietly watch. We cannot accept cases like Gui Minhai, Dawit Isaak and Ahmadreza Djalali. We cannot quietly accept threats and murders in countries such as Sri Lanka, South Sudan, Brazil and Egypt. We cannot quietly accept military junta's seizure of power in Myanmar or China's repression in Hong Kong. Sweden should be a voice for democracy, for freedom of expression, for respect and for the rights and freedoms of all people. Madam President, I would like I have said a few words about what is important for us in the Green Party in the foreign policy debate. What we need to do is always stand up for the global goals, the Paris Agreement, Swedish aid, a feminist foreign policy and democracy.
i-45175ea3013b547a-527	Madam President, I would like Not long ago, together with my fellow ministers in the European Union, I had a very exciting conversation with John Kerry, who is now appointed as a special envoy for environmental issues and with a seat in the National Security Council. It addresses the issue of climate and security challenges at the highest level. I wonder how the Green Party views this particular link, which may not be a traditional environmental or climate issue – precisely the link between security policy and climate and environmental issues.
i-45175ea3013b547a-529	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Preventing climate change is security policy. We see that climate change is the basis for wars and conflicts around the world. It is therefore quite natural for the Green Party to make this connection.
i-45175ea3013b547a-531	Madam President, I would like Isabella Lövin was incredible in bringing maritime issues to the fore in the climate negotiations and in the UN. Now Isabella Lövin has quit. How will the Green Party push the issues of the marine environment and the opportunities to move forward on maritime issues in the climate negotiations and at the global level?
i-45175ea3013b547a-532	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am afraid that on the first day of the mission as a foreign policy spokesperson I do not have all the details about how we will do exactly. That Isabella Lövin's footprint in the Green Party and in climate policy around the world has been huge, I think most, regardless of political colour, agree. And the seas will always be an important issue for the Green Party.
i-45175ea3013b547a-535	Madam President, I would like I understand that we should welcome Camilla Hansén in this House as the Green Party's new foreign policy spokesperson. That is very pleasing. Welcome! I still have to ask you a few questions, even though it's her first day at work. With all due respect, the Green Party is still one of two government parties. I wonder if Camilla Hansén, new to the job, can confirm that it can't be so fun to be an environmental party and in Parliament have had to argue against other parties who have said: Let's stop the Russian gas pipes! Let us stop Europe becoming dependent on Russian fossil gas! Nor can it be so much fun that you have been a party that initially said no to the idea of setting up a review commission on Gui Minhai, who is imprisoned for publishing books. It can't be that funny. What Camilla Hansén said about vaccination was good. I think it's a central part. Combating hunger and enabling vaccinations are important elements in the management of covid-19. Is it not a bit troubling that Sweden contributes to the common fund Covax with SEK 200 million and our neighbouring country Norway with SEK 1,250 million? We could have higher ambitions, couldn't we? I'm in favour of a lower level of aid than the Green Party. But I'm in favour of higher ambitions. The last thing I want to mention is that the Green Party, like the Left Party, has lent its party logo to a peace meeting in Delsbo. Håkan Svenneling was wrong there. It's done. It has been filmed to show it afterwards. Is it not embarrassing that the symbol of the Green Party, when you are a government party, is used to spread the Russian narrative in the Swedish debate?
i-45175ea3013b547a-541	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Wallmark, for the welcome! I understand that it will take a lot of hard work for me to get to the level of the other Members in the debate. Is it difficult to be an environmental partyist? Yes, sometimes it is difficult to belong to the smallest party in Parliament. That's it. It can also be challenging to be the smallest party in Parliament that cooperates with the largest party in Parliament. But when we sit together in the government, we make joint decisions. The Green Party also has opinions that the party stands for and that we pursue in other contexts, for example in the EU. Of course we are concerned about dependence on Russian gas. We are also concerned about dependence on Russian uranium on our nuclear power plants. Otherwise, however, I refer to the Foreign Minister's answer to similar questions. When it comes to the Delsbo peace conference, I do not fully control all the departments' arrangements around the country. But the Green Party has not taken part in this meeting. When they learned what the meeting was about and that the Russian ambassador was invited, they abstained. So it is not an arrangement that we have in any way supported. And we have not been involved in the implementation, as far as I know. I don't know Delsbo very well. As far as Covax is concerned, I can say that we are in favour of a high level of aid. This allows us to use funds when needed for various actions. I find it difficult to compare the numbers and what we should do instead. I know we are pushing for the poorest people in the world to get the vaccine. It is when we all deal with this pandemic that we are all safe about it. It applies to all countries.
i-45175ea3013b547a-546	Madam President, I would like I think that Camilla Hansén will be doing really well with us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs too. I understand that it may be complicated to be a small party in government cooperation with the Social Democrats. They're not always so decent. I can understand the suffering that we cannot unequivocally say no to the EU's dependence on Russian fossil gas. I can also understand that it was sad that Gui Minhai was not allowed to stand up for him in the desired way. When it comes to the Delsbo peace conference, perhaps we should get to the bottom of it. However, I find it embarrassing – not that the Left Party was involved, which was perhaps more understandable – that the Green Party was forced to lend its party symbol to the peace conference. I really only have one final question, and Camilla Hansén has only 60 seconds to answer it. But wouldn't it be reasonable, with the breadth that Camilla Hansén still indicates that she stands for, with party deliberations on security policy, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has rejected? Couldn't the Green Party be for that?
i-45175ea3013b547a-551	Madam President, I would like I also think that this will go well and that it will be fun. I also believe that it will be easy for me to stand up for the Green Party for the democratic values that we stand for. This means that if we learn, for example, that a Russian ambassador will participate in a peace talks and we are backing down, that is our message. Even Hans Wallmark probably encounters invitations where from the beginning it may be a little unclear what the context is. Then you just have to change your mind when you get the information you need. I will talk to environmentalists and social democrats about how we move forward on various issues together when it comes to cooperation in Parliament. I haven't had time to do that since yesterday when I was elected.
i-45175ea3013b547a-553	Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome Camilla Hansén to these contexts. First, there is the question of feminist foreign policy. I have to say that the government has done one good thing, namely marketing. This is a concept that has come to be known in Sweden and in the world, but it is unfortunately quite meaningless. The reason is that one has completely missed the perhaps by far the worst abuse women are subjected to around the world. I'm talking about forced marriage, genital mutilation, veiling and that women simply don't get the chance to live as they want. In addition, they are subject to widespread and systematic repression in different cultures, in families and in communities. This is, I mean, one of the biggest assignments we have from the Swedish side to push for international change. Then there is the world's first self-proclaimed feminist government. Yet we have seen problems, such as Saudi Arabia's place in the UN Commission on Women. We have seen how the government has encouraged trade with the rogue state of Iran, which can certainly be positive if done properly. It is believed that trade should improve the situation for vulnerable people and so on. But the situation has not improved. Instead, it has been quiet when courageous Iranian women have thrown off their veil. It has been quiet when Turkish Islamists invaded the feminist Kurdish regime in northeastern Syria. And it continues to channel aid to Islamic activities in the PLO and to Islamic Relief. How can this be a policy that the honourable Member stands for?
i-45175ea3013b547a-557	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your welcome. It is interesting to hear what high expectations there are of feminist foreign policy. The honourable Member mentions several terrible events that have taken place around the world. I would like it to be the case that the fact that Sweden decides to pursue a feminist foreign policy in order to promote women's rights could actually bring about a global change in such a short time. But I also understand that it is almost impossible. Swedish aid is one of the more effective aid in the world. It is continuously monitored and evaluated. If you find inaccuracies, they should be corrected. That's as far as I can answer today.
i-45175ea3013b547a-561	Mr. Old President! At the time, the honourable Member mentioned something that I was actually about to raise, namely aid. What is wrong with setting strict requirements for the disbursement of aid? Today we often talk about transparency and that aid should have a positive effect. You should bet right to get the effect you want. But the fact is that Sweden is one of the world's most generous aid countries. Sweden is in fourth place of the countries that channel the most money to UN organisations, not per capita, but in total. I can't believe it! But then there must be demands for aid to go to the right things. This is a parade issue for the Green Party, especially when it comes to supporting vulnerable women. Why not make tougher demands in aid policy?
i-45175ea3013b547a-564	Mr. Old President! I am really proud that Sweden is one of the world's most generous countries in terms of aid. Swedish aid is not just being shoveled out into the world, it is something that is being controlled, followed up and evaluated. It has also been mentioned as one of the more effective aid in the world. I think we're doing well on that front. I have no other idea than that the Green Party will continue to keep the banner of aid high. It is about being part of a world of solidarity where we support development and democracy around the world. The growth of democracy is also good for Sweden.
i-45175ea3013b547a-566	Mr. Old President! I, too, would like to extend a warm welcome to Camilla Hansén to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The day we have physical meetings again, we sit next to each other, I can tell you. I would also like to address a few questions to the Green Party. The environmental party is a government party, and Swedish governments make collective decisions in unity regardless of which parties form the government. In June 2019, the government, with social democrats and environmentalists, decided not to sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. It was a major trend break that meant that Sweden was not one of the signatories for the first time when a new Convention against Arms entered into force on 22 January this year. Despite the government's position, in which the Green Party voted against signing, the Green Party claims to be in favour of the Convention. It's basically good. But I wonder how it works when you vote against in the government, you vote against in the parliament, but at the same time you are in favour. The Green Party recently changed the Minister for Development. One of the first questions to the Minister for Development was why Sweden is against South Africa and India producing cheap vaccines. Here it was obvious during the interview that the Green Party does not want to take responsibility for Sweden's and the EU's very strange line. Therefore, I wonder why the profits of pharmaceutical companies are more important than vaccine doses to the world's poor. Then I have one last UN-related issue, and it concerns international efforts. No government since Tage Erlander's time has sent so little UN personnel as now from Sweden. What does the Green Party think about that? How can it be that such a UN-friendly government, as I fundamentally understand you, does not support the UN's military and civilian efforts any more?
i-45175ea3013b547a-571	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your welcome. It will be nice to sit next to each other. Håkan Svenneling first asked a question about the Nuclear Weapons Convention and how we relate to having an opinion as a party and to sitting in a government where decisions sometimes contradict us. That's how it is. We don't always get what we want. It would have been a little strange if a four-percent party had decided over an entire government with another large party. The Nuclear Weapons Convention has now entered into force. Sweden still stands for disarmament, and therefore Sweden participates with observers. Then there was the question of the vaccine. I acknowledge straight away that I do not know enough about the details of pharmaceutical companies and regulations relating to the manufacture of medicines. Our starting point is that as many people as possible should be vaccinated as soon as possible. Then risk groups must be vaccinated all over the world. We're not protected from the disease until everyone's protected. As far as the UN military operations are concerned, I will come back to you on the details.
i-45175ea3013b547a-576	Mr. Old President! I thank Camilla Hansén for the answers. I understand that she is facing a tough task today to familiarise herself with many areas and foreign policy, where sometimes it is hard talk and tough jabs. I hope for a tough environmental party that dares to stand up for its values and its background in the climate and environmental movement and in the peace movement. It is important that you press for Sweden as an observer to the Nuclear Weapons Convention. It was welcome to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs today that letters have been sent to the UN and announced that Sweden will participate as an observer. It is only by the fact that MP is on all the time that Sweden will be at the forefront. It is also fundamentally good that the Green Party wants vaccines and that the whole world should be protected. We have seen that there is easy national protectionism on the issues. There, the voice of the Green Party is important so that aid workers and health professionals around the world are vaccinated at a first stage.
i-45175ea3013b547a-579	Mr. Old President! Of course, I have much to learn, but I feel secure in the fundamental values of the Green Party in the peace, environmental, women's and climate movement, that is to say, to stand for our values and our solidarity with ecology, nature and animals, all the peoples of the world and future generations. We will care for the world so that future generations can live safely in it.
i-45175ea3013b547a-580	Mr. Old President! I think this is an unusually tense foreign policy debate this year. It's a little surprising in a way, when virtually all the focus in society is on the covid-19 pandemic – not without reason. Covid-19 and the need for global vaccination have also come up several times in this debate. So it is not that we are in any way conducting a debate that is non-real, in a small bubble, but rather thinking about what is happening outside. Very much of what is at the heart of Swedish foreign and security policy is a broad political consensus here in the Swedish Parliament. I usually welcome this fact in different contexts. In presentations and debates, I point to this and argue that it is a strength for Sweden and Sweden's security as a small country in a troubled and stormy world. But there are also differences – fairly constant differences, it seems. Part of the tension in today's debate comes from what has been the watershed in Swedish foreign and security policy for a number of years: whether Sweden should join NATO or not. For a few short weeks at the end of last year, this issue took a partly new turn. In a short time, a majority was formed here in Parliament for a so-called NATO option. It shall be in accordance with the same majority as the Finnish so-called NATO option. The arguments of the parties that formed the majority – the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Centers, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats – vary somewhat. In particular, there are two different views between these parties as to whether or not to use it. The Moderates, Centers, Liberals and Christian Democrats want Sweden to join NATO. The Swedish Democrats do not want Sweden to join NATO. In today's debate, the Moderates in particular have done what they could to make this the main issue of the debate: option or not? But, Mr. Age President, the question must be: NATO membership or not? This is not just any fraternity that we might join and where we end up in happy friends' teams. It sounds so simple and superficially many times in the debate when it comes to what we are going to join. NATO is a geopolitical organisation which, from time to time, as the world evolves, is forced to look for its task and to some extent also reinvent itself. NATO is not the EU. NATO is an organisation that does not require its Member States to be democracies. That is why a country like Turkey is found in the membership list. Turkey's action is an obvious problem, not just for countries that are considering joining NATO and are thinking about what company they might end up in. Turkey is also clearly a problem within NATO with its purchases of Russian weapons systems and wars in Syria, for example. NATO is an organisation in which Article 5 of the Statutes contains what is commonly called a binding defence guarantee. A military attack on one Member State is an attack on everyone, and everyone has a joint responsibility to fight it back. An attack on Turkey is therefore to be fought back by all – and then also by Sweden in the future of the Moderates, I suppose. NATO is building its strategic military planning on the possession of nuclear weapons by some Member States, what is commonly called the nuclear umbrella. Sweden was once quite a long time ago developing its own nuclear weapons. We certainly have the know-how and the capacity to do so, but wisely we chose to abstain. Instead, we focused on nuclear disarmament globally. Now, through NATO membership, the Moderates want to turn Sweden into a nuclear country by the back door. Will NATO then be as interested in Sweden and Finland as NATO members? What would our membership do for the security and stability of Northern Europe? Today, the north-eastern border of NATO is 2 551 kilometres long. 2,355 of those kilometres run between Norway on one side and Sweden and Finland on the other side – reasonably quite easily guarded, safe and stable. 196 kilometres go between Norway and Russia – short and clear, one might think, but clearly more tense. Will NATO really want to move this border so that it becomes a 1 536 kilometre-long direct border with Russia? No one can be sure of the answer to that question before it is given by NATO, but I do not think it should be taken for granted that it is a yes. I think it would be a little too easy for you. It's not a fraternity we join, as you know, and no happy friends' team. Finally, Mr. Age President: I think that Sweden should continue to work closely with NATO but not become a member of the organisation. Sweden's security policy line should be established. In this way, we build the best stability and security in northern Europe.
i-45175ea3013b547a-592	Mr. Age President and Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Forslund! A debate of this kind may contain a great many questions, more than our shifts will allow for. Kenneth G. Forslund focused his speech on NATO. That's very nice of you. There is a need for more people to speak NATO. I wasn't going to speak NATO. There are other issues that are also important. For example, there are questions about democratisation in the world worthy of the name. Contributing to democracy and gender equality in poor countries is important, but it is also important that the major authoritarian systems are challenged. The Moderates have proposed a House of Sweden in Taiwan. It is challenging a power order in East Asia. It is to provide the opportunity for a democracy that lies in the shadow of a large authoritarian regime. Is Kenneth G. Forslund in on that?
i-45175ea3013b547a-594	Mr. Old President! I thank Mr Rothenberg for the House of Sweden in Taiwan. I perceive the proposal and idea of the Moderate Party and the Center Party as an official Swedish representation. These are not established by the Riksdag. They are set up by the government. In addition, they are established in countries with which we have diplomatic relations. Taiwan is not an area with which we have diplomatic relations, I can say as a clue. However, I do not want in any way to anticipate a decision either in one direction or another by any Swedish government.
i-45175ea3013b547a-595	Mr. Old President! There I thought I heard a small opening. Kenneth G. Forslund does not wish to rule this out. We had something like that in the EU Council last Friday. Having the possibility of an increased exchange with a democracy that, as I said, lies in the shadow of China would be valuable for Sweden. Taiwan is a nation with which Sweden has a large economic exchange. That would also be good for Taiwan. Taiwan is a country that once represented China in the UN and which is currently struggling in the shadow of the great red power. It would be good for Taiwan to have an established relationship with Sweden in the form of a House of Sweden. It is in the Netherlands, it is in the UK and it could also be in Taiwan. This could also be an opportunity to push for a free trade agreement between the EU and Taiwan. Would that suit Kenneth G. Forslund?
i-45175ea3013b547a-598	Mr. Old President! On the last issue, I am not even sure that it is technically and formally possible for the EU to conclude such a free trade agreement. If Mr Rothenberg has information that there is room for law for it, we will of course have to discuss it. However, I am somewhat unsure whether it is even technically possible, and as a result there may be no question. I am in favour of cooperating with and supporting all democratic forces throughout the world. This also applies to democratic forces in China and Taiwan. There is one thing that is perhaps the most urgent in the world at the moment with regard to Taiwan, and that is that in practice they are extracted from the World Health Organisation. It is, of course, completely unreasonable, not only because it is one of the countries, or perhaps the country, that has managed the covid-19 pandemic best, but also because it is a country with many and great knowledge and should, of course, be around the table also in the WHO.
i-45175ea3013b547a-600	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Kenneth G. Forslund, for your speech. I agree with much of the criticism of NATO, although I do not agree with the conclusion that we should have good cooperation, because I think we should be independent. I'm going to raise another question. Last November, Morocco broke the 30-year cease-fire in Western Sahara. The war could have been avoided if the UN had lived up to its mission and carried out the referendum on which the parties once agreed. We are now seeing the continuing and intensified repression of the Western Sahara and the occupied part of the Western Sahara. A large number of Sahrawi people have been forced to flee and have been living in refugee camps for a long time. Despite this difficult situation, Polisario has managed to build a functioning state in the camps and in the part of the country under its own control. Is it not high time that Sweden really recognised the Sahrawi state that the majority of the Parliament decided to do in 2012?
i-45175ea3013b547a-604	Mr. Old President! The people and position of Western Sahara and Western Sahara are issues that involve both me and Lotta Johnsson Fornarve very much. On the other hand, we have different views on the issue of recognition. I do not see that there are conditions today, unfortunately, for recognition, simply because the Sahrawi people do not have control over their own territory. There is one reason for this: they are occupied by Morocco. It is an occupation that must stop. For it to stop, the international community must be involved. A first step in this is that the vacant post of the UN Secretary-General's envoy must be reinstated. It's been empty way too long. Sweden is an active member of the UN system and points this out to the Secretary-General. I hope that there will soon be a new person on the ground who will be able to start pushing these issues for the UN again.
i-UyimDPVLRqfwk65ifTtJv5	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Kenneth Forslund. The situation has not changed in Western Sahara compared to what it was like in 2012 when we voted together for Sweden to recognise Western Sahara. It's the same. A large number of countries have recognised Western Sahara. They are full members of the African Union. It is true that they do not have full control of their country, but they have control over part of their country, and they have managed to establish and build a functioning state. Known professors of international law believe that it is perfectly possible to recognize Western Sahara on the basis of the prevailing premises. We were able to do so in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Palestine, for example, which were not in full control of their respective countries either. So the principles of international law are actually there. Only the political will is lacking. It would mean a great deal to the Sahrawi people if Sweden recognised Western Sahara. It would advance the position of the Western Sahara, and it would help to resolve the conflict and to stop the war.
i-45175ea3013b547a-610	Mr. Old President! Unfortunately, the situation has changed since 2012 – for the worse. It has changed for the worse by the fact that armed battles are now taking place at times, which I deeply regret. It is the Sahrawi people who, after many decades of occupation, have been completely abandoned and are now taking up arms. It is regrettable and, to some extent, understandable – although I never support ideas of armed struggle, because I believe that it never leads to stable solutions. Another thing that has also worsened the situation is President Trumps's strange recognition of Morocco's right to Western Sahara. It has worsened the situation and is something that the international community needs to sort out because there is a deep legal uncertainty about that recognition decision.
i-45175ea3013b547a-612	Mr. Old President! Kenneth G. Forslund gave a large part of his speech on Sweden's relationship with NATO and the NATO option for which we now have a majority here in the Swedish Parliament. I want to give Kenneth G. Forslund one thing, and that is that I think he is absolutely right that our relationship with NATO is about choosing his friends and choosing with whom we cooperate. In this context, I think it is worth mentioning that everyone we see as our friends on the political stage in the world and with whom we want to cooperate most and most closely are members of NATO. They are for one reason: they believe it builds security. I think it is a vision that we in Sweden should also adopt. But the NATO option is not necessarily about that. It is not about forcing the Social Democrats to become NATO membership. Perhaps this should be the case, but that is not what it is about; it is about reducing the risk on the day we are in an uncertain situation and may need to look more closely. Then the door should be there and the roads there should be clear and clear for us here in Parliament and for other decision-makers outside it. Isn't this a good thing, Kenneth G. Forslund?
i-45175ea3013b547a-614	Mr. Old President! I am somewhat disturbed by this NATO debate, because it sounds so simple. It sounds like we're going to join some fraternity, any one, and on the team of good friends do things together. It is a harsher reality that awaits us if we are members. It is a membership that is not just made up of the countries with which we like to cooperate. I do not think that Magnus Ek and the Center Party like the idea of cooperating with Turkey, at least not today's Turkey with today's Turkish leadership. I believe that the best thing for North European security is to have the security organisation and the mosaic of solutions that we have in northern Europe where some are members and some are not, and some are cooperating closely and others are not at all.
i-45175ea3013b547a-616	Mr. Old President! That's where I think we have one of the problems. I do not think it is good, increases security or increases predictability, which is a value in itself, that we have this type of mosaic and that there is uncertainty as to where we stand. We have a declaration of solidarity with neighbouring countries but say in the next breath that we do not want to take this cooperation all the way and actually cooperate. Kenneth G. Forslund also knows that some of those who stand up with us most strongly in criticism of, for example, Erdo中an's regime are our neighbours who are NATO members. There's no contradiction in that. We have the historical reasons why NATO has the membership it has, but it has not been an obstacle for Denmark and Norway, for example, to cooperate in this, and that should not be an insurmountable obstacle for us. But, as I said, this is not about getting Kenneth G. Forslund and his party to become NATO advocates, but about having a clear and clear path when possible. The Minister for Foreign Affairs had difficulty answering earlier today why they refuse to have party talks on Sweden's security policy line. That is a question I would like to repeat. Why can we not put this forward together, precisely in order to increase clarity and predictability?
i-45175ea3013b547a-620	Mr. Old President! No, it is probably not ultimately about convincing the Social Democrats. There is a much larger task for Magnus Ek and other NATO proponents to take on: to try to convince the Swedish people. Support for NATO membership has in principle not moved at all in recent years. It's a little over 30%. What has happened is that the opponents have decreased and that the number of insecure has increased. This means, from Magnus Ek's point of view, that there are possible voters to recruit for NATO membership. From my point of view, this means that we need to talk more about what NATO membership means. It's not just any fraternity where we end up in happy friends' teams. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs responded very well to why the government does not invite to those talks. We have had a number of discussions about various things, including the Defence Committee. It jumped the Moderates and also the Center Party and other parties off.
i-45175ea3013b547a-623	Mr. Old President! A Russian woman living in Moscow wrote on February 3 the following on Facebook: I don't know what to say without sounding too dramatic. There's a state of emergency from now on. It's gonna get worse. As I write this, hundreds of people are arrested on the streets. They have been beaten or imprisoned since Sunday, just for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Something I'm really afraid of, for my own part right now, is that they turn off the network starting with all social media. I'm terrified of it. There are a few things that are important to me: access to information, the opportunity to explore and freedom of communication. I don't understand how and why to live without it. Now that the country I am in has become alien and hostile, it becomes clear that we are being isolated from the world. Then it feels like all options are removed at once. I regret the time when I was thinking about moving from Russia but chose not to. I doubt there's anything I can still do. It's just like one of those nightmares about you drowning. You know you have to act quickly but can't move a muscle and sink slowly underwater. Mr. Old President! Incarcerated demonstrators and farcical trials against opponents take place in the aftermath of the Kem armament attack on Aleksej Navalnyj. The use of chemical weapons must meet the strong reactions of the outside world, such as when used in the Vietnam war as well as when used by Saddam Hussein against Kurds and now when used against opposition politicians in Russia. Sweden and the EU should therefore not exclude sanctions other than purely economic ones in order to face evil and destructive forces. The Nord Stream 2 gas line must also be on the table. It is time to move from reacting to acting and doing so proactively, no matter who it touches and why. Not only violence and terrorism are enemies of democracy. Technology development is fast and not always predictable. Artificial intelligence developed under internationally controlled and regulated forms can offer unimaginable opportunities for people and for humanity. But artificial intelligence in the hands of destructive and authoritarian forces can offer the opposite. Direct attacks on countries, ethnic groups or individuals can be physical but can also occur in the form of threats and industrial espionage. Industrial espionage is today seen as part of everyday intrusions into people's lives. Above all, it is Russian and Chinese espionage that poses a low frequency but well so destructive threat to Swedish interests. In the short term, Russia is a tangible player as a source of interference. From a long-term perspective, Chinese espionage is a much more powerful and genuinely systematic magnitude. Mr. Old President! Where the international community the UN lacks the ability to act, the world needs to gather the good to meet these forces. Democratic countries with a functioning market economy and over time expressed respect for human rights must, through their common values, also be able to demonstrate joint action. A just as good a start as necessary is to re-establish a cooperative relationship between the EU and the US. The conditions for this are now better than in several years. It is also of a completely different necessity. There is a need for active and effective transatlantic cooperation, not only in the area of trade but also in relation to one of the five global challenges: security. Equal rules and conditions must apply in exchanges with China. The EU, together with the US and other like-minded countries, must increase the pressure on China to open up its markets and respect the markets of others. Chinese companies in our countries must be examined with the same yardstick as our own in China in terms of competition, subsidies, ownership and corruption. This attention must now also apply to industrial and knowledge espionage. Where trade is the world's universal language based on agreements based on trust, industrial espionage is its insulting profanity. Coronan's full impact on world trade is not quite yet visible, but as always when established systems fall into imbalance, there are forces that exploit the situation to their own advantage and to the detriment of others. In this context, Chinese imperialism, which seeks political, military, cultural, technological and economic world domination, is not late in taking advantage of this opportunity. Mr. Old President! 1984 was once a frightening prospect where time caught up and passed Orwell's dystopia. Although the book 2084 will not be written, it is up to us in the free world to ensure, in union with others good and through democracy, a market economy and respect for the inviolable value of man, that that story never becomes reality. No one is allowed to write it for us, let alone allow it to be experienced.
i-45175ea3013b547a-634	Mr. Old President! Like myself, Mr Rothenberg has a long commitment to human rights in China. It's extremely honorable. But we can't just talk, we also have to act, make sure there's a little workshop. I therefore wonder how Mr Rothenberg feels about corporate responsibility and commitment to human rights. There are a large number of Swedish companies that have interests and investments in China. Audits have shown that companies are not doing enough for human rights. What do the Moderates think about legislating that companies must introduce a mandatory risk analysis and action plan to prevent human rights violations?
i-45175ea3013b547a-636	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank you for the question. It's important to discuss. I have discussed it with representatives of Swedish companies on site in Beijing, at the Swedish-Chinese Chamber of Commerce. Many people should put more effort into ownership, both individuals and citizens as well as companies. To stand up for democratic values and for human rights is done in everyday life. That is to be done out of conviction, by your own strength and by your own will. I assume that one's own will is not difficult to attract. It is important that we send these signals in the political system to companies operating in other countries. They are ambassadors for Sweden. They shall represent Swedish interests and values. It should be possible to do so without legislation.
i-45175ea3013b547a-639	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for your answer. Unfortunately, I do not share your conclusion, but I think it is absolutely essential that we make demands on companies. Companies, too, must live up to human rights and make demands on countries when they invest in such hard-core dictatorships as China. There have been shortcomings in a number of areas. I therefore think that this is extremely important. For the Left Party, it is important for Sweden to go ahead and investigate how we can introduce such legislation here. I think it is absolutely necessary.
i-45175ea3013b547a-641	Mr. Old President! Yeah, we're gonna make demands of behavior. It's kind of like raising your kids. They are taught how to behave in connection with others. They learn how to greet and respect laws and standards. I know that in many contexts the Left Party, apart from the Moderates, sees business as an enemy. It wants to legislate, make things difficult, complicate and impose additional burdens. On the day of legislation on such a matter, politics has failed. We have instruments such as the Export Credit Board and Swedish Export Credit. In these contexts, such conditions could be introduced, but I do not believe that this should be done by law. Even our authorities have a responsibility for this.
i-45175ea3013b547a-643	Mr. Old President! The foreign policy debate returns annually. It's very big. We politicians have the opportunity to raise exactly what we want, as far as foreign policy is concerned. This is the third time I have taken part in the debate. For the first year, I referred to the situation of the Kurds and the war in the Middle East. In the second year, I referred to the genocide that the Swedish Government has not yet recognised. This year I had a bit of a hard time deciding on the subject. There's a lot to choose from, and I was veandering between several different. Finally, I landed on something that is extremely important to highlight, which exists all over the world and which unfortunately affects many people. It is about the vulnerability of women and children, that is, human rights. The UN Declaration on Human Rights, adopted on 10 December 1948, reads that everyone has the right to life, freedom and personal security. It should be something of course, but unfortunately it is not being observed everywhere. Around the world, millions of women are subjected daily to an oppressive and violent culture of honor, which severely limits their ability to live their lives as they wish. Every individual, regardless of gender, should be able to do so. Instead, women around the world are forced to live a life that they have not chosen. Most often it is because they must put the honor of the family and the family first. In many places they are also exposed to sexual abuse, threats, violence, sexual trafficking, arranged marriages, child marriages, abuse and other forms of violence such as genital mutilation of girls. Mr. Old President! In many countries with a strong culture of honor, women do not even have the opportunity to choose their own partner. It's something that should be everyone's business. Instead, marriage is arranged and determined without regard to the will or viewpoint of the individual woman. Women are usually used as a way to buy into a more desirable family. A marriage can also be a solution to an ongoing feud. While calling itself feminist, our government is not fully committed to women's and children's rights on a global scale. The government does not take a clear stand against various dictatorships around the world, such as the totalitarian Islamic dictatorship Iran. In a number of ways, the Iranian regime is brutally oppressing women and girls in the country, not least with the oppressive veil. In Iran, legislation is designed in such a way that women's testimony is not worth half of a man's. Married women need the permission of their husbands to obtain passports, and the consent of the husband is required to allow married women to work in certain occupations and, with some exceptions, to divorce. We also see how Sweden's so-called feminist government directly supports the oppression of the anti-female Palestinian Authority. Instead, the government should promote women's rights globally, for example in Afghanistan and Somalia, and withdraw its recognition of Palestine as a state. Mr. Old President! Sweden needs to work internationally in order to reduce and ban girl-aways. Unfortunately, as a result of a variety of reasons that boys are more important to the family, girls are common. Boys are considered to be a greater asset, not least as support for agriculture or other work. Girls are usually seen more as a cost than an asset to the family. Girls who are mainly associated with expenses are not considered as desirable. Especially worrying are the number of girls away in India but also in the totalitarian Communist Party's China. Also in several Muslim cultures girls are seen as less valuable. Around the world, girls and women struggle to be able to control their own bodies and lives. In many places they are subjected to sexual abuse, threats, violence and more, while our so-called feminist government uses praise more than action. It claims to stand up for women's rights, but at the same time it does not reject dictatorships and regimes that subject women to oppression. Sweden must be better at standing up for everyone's opportunity to have their fundamental human rights recognised as well as for everyone's right to meet their own bodies and lives. Mr. Old President! This year, 100 years since decisions were taken on equal and universal suffrage for women. Are we really going to celebrate this by channelling aid money once again to organisations that represent anything but women's equal rights and value? In many cases, the government's positions have shown a lack of judgment and an inability to stand up for the values it claims to represent. The Swedish government needs to be better at promoting human rights and women's and girls' rights globally. We must stand up for everyone's right to control their own bodies and lives.
i-45175ea3013b547a-654	Mr. Old President! It is a joy to hear Sara Gilles's great commitment to women around the world. At the same time, the group leader of the Swedish Democrats in the Foreign Affairs Committee submitted a written question to Isabella Lövin in which he wrote, among other things, that the most common cause of death on earth in 2020 was abortion. He wrote that 42 million unborn were killed in abortions and that Swedish politics, which we conduct, is often about abortion issues but rarely about children's right to life. How does Sara Gille feel about her commitment to women's right to decide over her own body that line rhymes with the policy she claims to represent?
i-45175ea3013b547a-656	Mr. Old President! First of all, this concerns a written question from an individual Member. It is nothing that I have written at all, and I cannot therefore answer this question. I have no idea what the written question was about. I find it a little remarkable that the Member of Parliament is raising a written question which some party colleague or someone else has written and which I have not seen and have not read. You'll have to show it to me and I'll give you an answer. But if I haven't seen and read it, I can't comment on anything.
i-45175ea3013b547a-658	Mr. Old President! Now it is not just any Member of Parliament. Sara Gille is on the Foreign Affairs Committee. It is your foreign policy spokesperson who speaks this way about abortions, Sara Gille. He says it's dead unborn babies that it's all about. It's pretty amazing. Finally, I can be amazed at Sara Gilles's criticism of the Swedish government's work in promoting women's and girls' rights around the world. Sara Gille knows that every year we spend more than 50 billion on aid funds, of which the absolute majority are weighted with a focus on gender equality and girls' and women's rights. This is probably well known. I wonder how the 16 billion reduction in aid that you want to implement together with the Moderates contributes to the rights of girls and women around the world.
i-45175ea3013b547a-660	Mr. Old President! I thank the honourable Member for the debate. First of all, and again, this is not a written question that I have asked. I still have no idea. I would like to point that out again. The criticism of the current government I stand by. You are, however, the government that has actually pulled your veil when you go to the dictatorship of Iran. You have also recognised Palestine as a state, for example, which is absurd and completely absurd. That list can be made very long. Of course, it's great that you spend money on assistance for vulnerable women and children. But much more needs to be done. You must disassociate yourself from such things as this.
i-45175ea3013b547a-663	Mr. Old President! My question to Sara Gille concerns the concept of girl-aways and the reasoning put by the honourable Member in the speaker's chair. I think we all agree that this is a problem for those countries where this is over-represented and where there is a clear excess of boys among the children who are born. It is purely harmful to a society. There are few things that are as damaging to a society as having a created shortage of women in all age groups. I think we all agree that this should not happen. But I think there is one very important point to make here. I would like an answer to that. It sounds like Sara Gille wants to push her way into the abortion part of this problem, not the fact that women are seen as inferior and, as the honourable Member himself said, as a burden – something so absurd! That is the basic problem that needs to be addressed. If you try to solve this by going on abortions, you restrict women's rights without being sure that you can get to the problem. What does the honourable Member think about that?
i-45175ea3013b547a-665	Mr. Old President! I agree. These are two huge questions that Magnus Ek raises. They're both very important. We need to look at the vulnerability of women at all, but also at girl-aways, which are being done around the world. In India and elsewhere, girls are buried alive, for example, because they are girls. We're gonna have to deal with this. It simply cannot go on. Of course, we must both see the children alive and take care of them before they have been born at all. So I absolutely agree.
i-45175ea3013b547a-666	Mr. Old President! I must say, however, that Sara Gilles's reply did not reassure me of the desire to restrict abortions even more in those communities where abortions are already severely limited and where women are already risking their lives because they cannot have access to legal and safe abortions. If we want girls and children not to be buried alive, it is precisely the availability of safe and legal abortion that is the answer. If you push into what is the answer and which is, in fact, both a right and a right, we will see more of these problems. This is exactly what I wanted a clear and unequivocal rejection of. It is not abortions and access to abortion that are the problem here, but that, unfortunately, we still have communities where this absurd, but also completely inhumane, way of looking at and treating women as less worthy, as less than full-fledged people. That's the problem we have to get to, isn't it?
i-45175ea3013b547a-667	Mr. Old President! I absolutely agree with what Magnus Ek says. We have a problem with girls away, but we also have a problem with abortions that are illegal and are not done properly. I fully share Magnus Ek's view.
i-45175ea3013b547a-668	Mr. Old President! Sara Gille is discussing the state of Iran from a perspective. There are very many perspectives from which to discuss Iran. Iran is one of the three perhaps most aggressive dictatorships, both against its own people on the ground and against exiles in other countries. Abortion is an issue where the Swedish Democrats have a history. At the moment, you have landed in being quite accommodating and adapting your policy to the prevailing view in Sweden, namely that abortion should be allowed for up to 18 weeks and then allowed with the consent of the National Board of Health and Welfare. Would Sara Gille like to see a direct copy of the Swedish legislation in Iran? I would also like to hear Sara Gille explain a little bit how the Swedish Democrats think it should work to change Iran from outside, if this country is a major problem, which I will explain in my next line. We have ideas of separation in many contexts. How are we gonna deal with Iran?
i-45175ea3013b547a-671	Mr. Old President! If you go as a representative to Iran, I think, among other things, that you absolutely should not draw the veil, but we must stand up for women's rights and the equal value of everyone and show it clearly. Especially the current government must be very clear about that. There I think absolutely that the Swedish government needs to be much better. We can't claim to be good. The government cannot claim to be good and claim to be promoting and helping women and all this while dragging on the veil and, deep down, not really standing up for women's rights in Iran. I definitely think we need to show a lot more in Iran.
i-45175ea3013b547a-672	Mr. Old President! That wasn't really the answer to what I asked. How do the Swedish Democrats think that the situation of Iranians in Iran should be changed and that the Iranian dictatorship should be brought to an end? Iran is a country based on the separation of people. Women have one value, men have another value. If you are unIslamic and, moreover, representative of Israel or any other country, you do not have that human dignity. Separation has never built functioning states. We can agree on that. I will not defend the government, but unlike in many other countries, in Iran it is a crime for women not to have a veil. This means that the Swedish ministers would have gone to prison. I would like to hear: What do the Swedish Democrats think we should seriously change from a Swedish perspective in Iran?
i-45175ea3013b547a-676	Mr. Old President! If it had been up to me, I would definitely have changed a lot in Iran. Now I'm not in a position to decide. I'm not in Iran. However, I sit in the Swedish parliament and can influence laws, push on the government and so on. I think that Sweden needs to become tougher and stricter when it comes to what is right and what is wrong and human rights at all. You need to stand up for women in a completely different way than you do today. I think it was absolutely wrong for the Swedish Foreign Minister to put on the veil. I do not think that the Swedish Foreign Minister should have done so when she was in Iran, absolutely not. If that is what has to be done, she should not go there, simply. She must stand up for women's rights and human rights at all.
i-45175ea3013b547a-679	Mr. Old President! A little over a year ago, I stood in this House and gave a speech on the subject that the 10th century, which was just finished, had been one of the best decades of human history. I did not do so mainly on the basis of political developments. As we all know, it went in many ways in the wrong direction during the ten years. It was from the fact that hundreds of millions of people are being lifted out of poverty during the ten years. A year later, one of mankind's best decades has been followed by one of our worst years. The Covid-19 pandemic may have broken many of the advances that we have been fighting for ten years in this year to achieve. Lockdowns, broken trade chains and the economic recession that follows them risk throwing these hundreds of millions of people back into poverty. These are people who had lifted up and are now in danger of falling back down. Already weak health systems are under even more pressure. Children, and especially girls, are kept at home from schools and denied education. Democracy and human rights fighters are now even more being persecuted by authoritarian regimes which are taking the pandemic as a pretext for restricting citizens' rights. In short, most things are going the wrong way. The 2030 targets appear to be increasingly difficult to achieve. It is not just a human tragedy that we have lived through this year through the lives that have been lost in the pandemic. It is also a tragedy through the consequential effects of the pandemic on oppressed and vulnerable people worldwide. Mr. Old President! The Pandemine also struck a world that was already heading in the wrong direction in many ways. Authoritarian leaders have taken courage from totalitarian powers such as China and Russia and four years with one of the weakest and worst presidents the United States has ever had. It has been a global response to the relatively limited progress we have seen in the area of gender equality. Efforts are being made to push back women and girls even harder into patriarchal oppression. To this the climate threat becomes even more imminent and increasingly real, while world leaders still find it difficult to make the efforts needed to reverse the trend. Mr. Old President! In view of all this, Swedish aid and development cooperation are more important than ever. Rarely have real solidarity, democratic and forward-looking forces been needed as much as now. Rarely have forces for human rights and gender equality been needed more than now. Rarely have the forces for sustainability, both social, economic and ecological, needed more than now. At this point, unfortunately, voices are being raised here at home, in this House, in order to cut back on Swedish aid or to make it conditional, for example, on measures to curb migration. Rarely has a time been so badly chosen as this one to promote that kind of opinion. Swedish aid and development cooperation do not need to be scaled down. It needs to be tightened up to do even more good. It needs to be exchanged with private capital and forces in order to be able to respond even more forcefully to the challenges that we see and that have deepened over the past year. Mr. Old President! We need to think about where the Swedish aid budget is most useful. Although we are one of the valuable, democratic and solidarity forces, we are not entirely alone. Above all, we risk missing out on maximum benefit if we become too thinly dispersed and focus too much on too many places. It's hard to tell us what to do less of, really hard. But if we want to get the most out, we want to be able to do real good and we want to be able to have a chance to achieve the 2030 goals, we need to think about: How do we sharpen Swedish aid and development cooperation as much as we can at all? This is the entrance of the Center Party to how Swedish development cooperation should be developed. It is about focusing on, for example, sustainable jobs, climate change and green energy. These are areas where we have a specific competence. It is important to continue to develop the focus on gender equality and women's and girls' rights because we know that having others will want to make it as powerful as we do. It is about coming in with a perspective and supporting democratic development and the functioning of the rule of law when the trend too often goes in the wrong direction. Here we can make a very important contribution from the Swedish side. At the same time, we need to reflect on whether we can continue to do the same with a declining peoples' attitude. One of the major strengths of Swedish aid is that Swedish society as a whole has been involved in building it and developing it. We are at a time when this has been professionalised. That is in many ways very good. But it is also important if we are to have both the anchoring and support for Swedish aid and development cooperation that we think about: How do we deal with civil society and private forces and build a better world? Last but not least, we should also think about how we act in the EU and the UN in order for them to pull in the same direction as we rather than against us. We need to think about how Sweden can be more often the performers of EU aid, for example. We need to think about how we put more Swedish forces for a sharper and better development cooperation also into the UN agencies. Aid is one of our most important tools for development, and we need to make better use of it. Maybe it's more important now than ever before.
i-45175ea3013b547a-695	Mr. Old President! The world's dollar billionaires own more than half the world's poorest population. The 22 richest men own more than all women in Africa do, as if these 22 men worked more and made more effort than all women in Africa. It's time to break the myth that those who are rich are because they've been working and trying harder. They're rich because the system is rigged for them. What, then, are the consequences of these abyssed income gaps? For example, those with low incomes receive lower health care, education and working conditions, and less space in society. People are denied the right to power and influence over their own life situation. In the tracks of inequality follows ill health, violence and sexual abuse. In many countries, people are not even allowed to engage in civil society organisations or to demonstrate. This leads to even worse living conditions for many while the rich get richer. But there are solutions. It is possible to distribute the world's resources more fairly. We have to do it now. Among other things, we must pay what it costs to produce a product in such a way that all workers, both women and men, at all stages receive decent working conditions and wages. We must ensure that the entire production including transport is ecologically and climately sustainable. We must ensure that all people are allowed to make their voice heard and heard. We must not least ensure that everyone has the right to control their own body and sexuality. The Left Party therefore wants to see, among other things, fair and fair trade agreements in accordance with environmental and human rights due diligence, stop tax evasion by signing country-by-country reporting, introduce additional climate assistance and invest more in sexual and reproductive health and rights. We are not alone in wanting it. On the contrary, all UN member states agreed on Agenda 2030. It is an action plan with 17 main objectives and 169 sub-objectives to achieve an equal, fair world. What is important to remember is that in these goals everything is connected. We cannot just take one goal at a time, but must make the work coherent both locally and globally. Let me take Yemen as an example of how we can work with Objective 2, no hunger. Over the years Yemen has been the victim of a war. This means that land is destroyed immediately by bombings but also in the long term by the environmental damage caused by the bombings. So we must also work on the objectives of peaceful societies, climate and biodiversity. The war has also meant that people's income opportunities have disappeared, which makes it difficult to achieve the goals of no poverty and reduced inequality. Women and children are the worst victims of war, and Yemen is absolutely no exception. We must therefore work on the objectives of equality and good education. One way to deal with the humanitarian disaster is to provide aid. An additional and more vital way of doing this is for Sweden to immediately impose a ban on arms exports to the Saudi-led coalition that is bombing Yemen to pieces. It is feminist foreign policy for real, and we in the Left Party believe that the government should take this on board immediately. Mr. Old President! We've all been hit by the pandemic. Many of us have lost one or more of our loved ones, lost our job, or seen our life's work go bankrupt. Children and young people are mentally ill from not being able to meet their friends as usual. The pandemic has hit the working class, poor and razed the hardest. As usual, this is even more true in poor countries. Many people have lost their income opportunities, migrant workers can no longer send money home to their families, and millions of children cannot go to school. Isolation has led to increased male violence against women and children. More girls are being married and maimed as poverty increases. More and more journalists and human rights activists have been imprisoned. That is why we in the Left Party have budgeted for extra Corona aid of 1 billion. Extraordinary times require extraordinary effort. Then it is not enough to move money around within the existing aid budget, but more must be done. In addition to what is already being done, more needs to be done to protect fragile health care, protect violent women and children and, not least, obtain vaccines for everyone. Because if we're gonna get rid of the pandemic, anyone who needs to get access to the vaccine needs to get it. That is why multilateralism is so important. We must act together in order for everyone to have the same rights. Although there are shortcomings in the major multilateral organisations – for example, Israeli repression against Palestine continues despite the fact that the UN, over 50 years ago, issued resolutions on what would be required – it is precisely within the UN that we can work together for a world for all. Mr. Old President! For the Left Party, solidarity outside Sweden is enough. What we want to achieve here, we want to apply to the whole world, just as we have agreed in Agenda 2030. It is difficult to lift in six minutes all the solutions to the terrible consequences of the unfair and developmentist income gaps, but these were some of the Left Party's proposals for an equal, equal society for all, not just the richest.
i-45175ea3013b547a-713	Mr. Old President! There are more than two months left until May 1st; this was a good exercise. We recognize it. The Left Party talks about injustice and about crushing the myth, about the system being rigged and about tax evasion and wealth – these are the problems in the world. I thought it was poverty. When Yasmine Posio talks about the major problems in the world, it sounds like wealth is the problem – that there are too many rich. I want to ask, would the world have been better if there were fewer rich people? Why do I never hear a left-wing party in these contexts talk about women's entrepreneurship and that the best way to lift women in poor countries is to give them the opportunity to gain control and power over their own lives? Entrepreneurship is lifting yourself and being able to lift others – why do we never hear this?
i-45175ea3013b547a-715	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for the questions. If we start with poverty versus wealth, the world would have been better off if resources had been better distributed than is the case today. We have people who go to work and work every day, but they do not get the greatest fruit from the work they do. It gets the owners – those who own the company or wherever you work. That's the redistribution that needs to be done. We don't mind that people don't have to be oppressed or go hungry and don't have to turn their money around at the end of every month. On the contrary, we believe that all people have the right to good health, a good economy and a good life – not just the rich.
i-45175ea3013b547a-717	Mr. Old President! In Sweden, 97% of companies are small enterprises. Very many of these are one-person companies. This is not unique to Sweden; that is how it looks around the world. On the bazaars there is a person who runs his business. When it comes to shops, it is also often a person who runs their business. This is what it looks like all over the world, and often it's a man. I think that is something that you in the Left Party should focus on. The world is made up of small businesses. It is not rich people but people who probably work far more than the Swedish statutory eight-hour working day, self-employed people who work maybe 16-18 hours a day. But they're entrepreneurs. They work for themselves, and they can lift others. Women are under-represented as entrepreneurs and thus have less opportunity to create their own livelihood. Wouldn't that be something to change instead of barking at the rich?
i-45175ea3013b547a-720	Mr. Old President! Well, if only entrepreneurship helped lift people out of poverty, it would have been amazing. But that is not the case, and we can see that historically if we look at Sweden. It was because people got together and engaged in trade unionism that they got better wages. People in communities joined forces and created, for example, Consumer stores. People joined forces and demanded better care. So everything is connected. We cannot just focus on businesses, but we must make the public go hand in hand with the entrepreneurial. It's extremely important. At the same time, even though a lot of people are working hard in their own businesses – my family is self-employed – the wealth at large in society is not redistributed in a fair and sensible way. It is not until we overcome the redistribution that we have a society where everyone is equal.
i-45175ea3013b547a-723	Mr. Old President! Over the last decade, the world has become more insecure and insecure. Millions of people have been affected by wars, armed conflicts, and persecution. Mr. Old President! Non-democratic, corrupt regimes and Islamic forces feed hatred and contribute to armed conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen. In these countries there is a power struggle in Islam between Sunni and Shia Muslims, a conflict that has been going on since the 600s. The aim is not democracy and societies with respect for human rights and freedoms, but power-based claims based on faith, where all other inhabitants, regardless of ethnicity or religious affiliation, are discriminated against. Apart from those countries, the same phenomenon exists in most Arab countries. Mr. Old President! Society is governed by autocrats, religious extremists, who do not shun any means to maintain power. No democratic parties or electoral system are allowed, and no political agenda for the common good applies. Freedom, equality, equal rights, respect for human rights and the rule of law are completely absent. The ongoing conflict between Shia and Sunni Muslims and the lack of democracy has affected Christians and other ethnic groups for centuries. Regardless of the age president, if it is Shia or Sunni Muslims who rule, Christians have paid a high price for their survival in this region. Mr. Old President! We also see an increasing Islamic terror against Christians in some African countries: Nigeria, Somalia, Mali and others. The Open Doors organisation has confirmed this very worrying development in Africa in its annual reports. During 2019, the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs also produced a report stating that Christians are the most persecuted in the world. The report notes that the persecution of Christians in more and more places is approaching the definition of genocide. We have already seen how the terrorist group of the Islamic State has committed genocide against the Christian minorities of Syrians, Chaldeans and Assyrians in Syria and Iraq. Mr. Old President! In order to bring about peace, freedom and democracy, a structural change is needed from the ground up. It is about societies built on a democratic constitution and an educational system based on the equal, unique and inviolable value of all people, with equality, equality and inclusion. It is changes that are of the utmost importance for a successful development of society that contributes to freedom and community. Mr. Old President! Militant Islamists such as the Islamic State, Al-Qaida and Boko Haram pose threats to peace and freedom in a number of countries. One of the major challenges of our time is to combat Islamic terrorism and other militant terrorist organisations that want to destroy our way of life. The UN and the EU, together with the Arab League and the African Union, can contribute to greater peace, freedom, security, democracy and respect for human rights. Not least, the countries which actively provide financial and military support to terrorist organisations can also be penalised. Mr. Old President! The EU should also take greater responsibility internationally and use the Magnitsky regime to impose sanctions on individuals and nations who violate or violate human rights. This will increase the protection of individual freedom and help protect vulnerable people. Mr. Old President! In recent years, several EU countries, including Sweden, have been affected by terrorist attacks involving several hundred deaths and injuries. Over 300 inhabitants from Sweden and over 10 000 inhabitants from other EU countries have gone to Syria and fought with the terrorist group Islamic State. Many of these jihadists who have actively participated in war in Syria and Iraq have now returned to the EU and pose a major security threat to our open and democratic societies. Most recently in Denmark, the police were able to prevent a terrorist attack, where a dozen suspected IS supporters are now arrested and investigated for planning terrorist attacks. In order to safeguard freedom, democracy and an open society, these destructive forces must be fought with all their might. All people have every freedom to choose to believe or not to believe in any religion, but we as fellow humans need to show great respect for each other's differences and respect each other with dignity. Whether you believe in Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism or Buddhism, it is equally important to respect and protect freedom, democracy and human rights. By seeing each other as fellow humans regardless of differences, we can together make life easier for each other.
i-45175ea3013b547a-735	Mr. Old President! Slava Ukrainiani! Zjyve Belarus! Svobodu Navalnomu! These are three slogans that describe the desire for freedom that has driven change in Ukraine and Belarus and now perhaps also in Russia. What, then, is and should the role of Sweden and the EU be in this? We hurry through phrases such as the illegal annexation of Crimea and the war in eastern Ukraine and add one and so on. In time, it risks becoming the new normal. That is exactly what the Kremlin wants to achieve, but it must never become the new normal. In Crimea, one nation has invaded part of another sovereign nation. Today, Crimea is an area of increasing militarisation. Russia has portrayed Crimea's natives, Crimean Tatars, as terrorists. Arbitrary disappearances and gross violations of human rights are everyday. The war in Donbass has claimed over 10 000 lives and led to almost 1 million internally displaced persons. Russian weapons, Russian soldiers and Russian money keep the war going, as well as the illusion that the bandits in the leadership of the DNR and the LNR will sometime become something other than just bandits. In Syria, Russia intervened on Assad's side with apparent arguments about pushing back IS. The truth is that Russian interference has resulted in war crimes, unlimited human suffering and limited opportunities for the UN Security Council to act. For the Russian regime, the world is divided into spheres of interest. It's a chessboard. It is no coincidence that Russia is a chess champion. The Western world rarely understands a Russian modus operandi. We view Russia on the basis of our own view of the world. If we are to be successful chess players, we need to understand how Russia sees the chess plan. Swedish foreign policy is based on a win-win strategy, while Russian foreign policy is a zero-sum game, where there is a winner and a loser. Remi is not something the Kremlin seeks. Mr. Old President! The Baltic states are an example in their actions against Russia and their support for a free Belarus. In spite of their geographical proximity, they are often the first to condemn, whether it be the detained Navalny or police brutality. The reasons for this are NATO membership, institutionalised knowledge of Russian action and a great deal of courage. Swedish action needs to be more marked by visibility, speed and courage. Let me give you a few examples. Sweden will be a leader in the EU in its efforts to increase smart sanctions targeted at people in key positions in the Russian and Belarian regimes. Ukraine depends on the EU and on Sweden's support to continue the democratisation process and rule of law. Increase that support! Sweden and the EU need to increase aid both in words and in action to the Russian and Belarian democratic movements and civil society. It is unacceptable that Swedish aid funds have gone to state actors and institutions in Belarus that help legitimise a repressive regime. The completion of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, which gives Russia permanent influence over European energy supplies, must be stopped. Russian black money is laundered white, often in banks such as Swedbank and Nordea, around the EU capitals. Investment in luxury apartments and businesses enables the Putin regime to continue to hold power. Do not think for a moment that it is some form of communist or ideological conviction that drives the Kremlin. It's money, and it's corruption. And we can stop that. Finally, we want to see a Sweden which condemns the inevitable next example of a repressive regime, which stands on the EU barricades of smart sanctions, which never loses its weight, which never lets itself be intimidated and never lets its eyes go for a free Belarus, a free and united Ukraine and a free Russia.
i-45175ea3013b547a-749	Mr. Old President! When we had the foreign policy debate in this House last February, we certainly could not grasp the scale of the disaster that the world was about to enter. We are still living in the midst of the pandemic, but we are beginning to be able to review the consequences so little. Even before covid-19, the humanitarian situation was severe in many places in the world. Already in 2020, 168 million were estimated to be in need of humanitarian aid. It was the largest number since World War II. Now the figure is much higher. We know that more people than ever are on the run. We see that the proportion of armed conflicts has increased. We also see serious effects of climate change, such as extreme droughts, floods and pests, and that an increasing number of people around the world are actually unable to eat enough. The economic crisis that we are experiencing because of covid-19 and which is also ahead of us is enormous in both scale and speed. And it is placed on top of an already fragile situation. In fact, we have not experienced anything like this since the Great Depression nearly 100 years ago. Of course, aid needs have also increased as development has so rapidly slowed down globally. People live, as I said, in acute famine and with a poverty that is running out. Furthermore, as several speakers have highlighted during the day, we see the increasing proportion of authoritarian and right-wing populist leaders taking the opportunity to further restrict democracy and human rights with reference to the pandemic. This reinforces the negative development of democracy in the world, as we have seen for several years. Today we have many more countries that are non-democratic than countries that can be considered stable democracies. Above all, we see how gender equality is reduced. Child marriages are increasing, as are men's violence against women. Yes, for women in particular, the consequences of the pandemic are devastating. More men go away in covid, but the social and economic consequences for women are enormous. We see how covid-19 now helps to roll back the progress, which is certainly relatively small, that we have seen in terms of equality and women's rights. In addition, almost 60% of the world's women work in the informal economy, which is now extremely hard hit. At the same time, unpaid domestic work has, of course, increased exponentially when schools close and the elderly receive increasing nursing needs. Those teenage girls who are now forced to leave school around the world may never come back again. In the past year, according to UN data, about one in five women worldwide have experienced violence. Of course, many have done so when they were locked up with their perpetrators in their homes. Then it is safe to feel that you represent a country that is holding aid high. For us Social Democrats, it goes without saying that we should now do what we can. It is also about our own security and a future in a global world where things are connected. Of course, we stand up for the 1% target. And as a rich country, we have a responsibility to help make the world better and more stable. At this point, the Moderates have chosen to launch an offensive campaign to cut aid substantially. In fact, it is not only world-based and counterproductive, but also – one must surely be able to say – exceptionally poor timing. They agree with their new comrades in the Swedish Democrats to cut aid by about a third – 16 billion. It would, of course, have devastating consequences for aid, and it would seriously damage Sweden's reputation and credibility in the eyes of the outside world. This applies not only to the countries with which we cooperate, but also to the UN and other major global players. That's what populism looks like. As Social Democrats, we stand up because aid is needed more than ever. It is needed to build long-term sustainable societies and countries without poverty. Assistance will continue to have a clear focus on gender equality, and resources will be allocated accordingly. Increasing the power of girls and women over their lives and promoting their political, economic, social and cultural rights is by far the best way to combat poverty and achieve economic growth and sustainable peace. Our solidarity is international, and we stand up to take international responsibility even at a difficult time.
i-45175ea3013b547a-760	Mr. Old President! Yes, democracy is under trial in many places. There are many who, as Annika Strandhäll says, take the opportunity to use the coronapandemine as an excuse to make restrictions. Yes, there are right-wing populist regimes that do this. There are serious communist regimes that do this. Three of the countries that base their policies on communist and socialist foundations are China, North Korea and Venezuela. What we have learned from history is that democracy and the market economy often go hand in hand. I would like to ask Annika Strandhäll: What do you Social Democrats think should be done to strengthen the market economy in the world in order to thereby also strengthen democracy?
i-45175ea3013b547a-763	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for an important question. We must, of course, by all means at the time in which we live, take exactly all the measures that we can take to strengthen democracy. Mr Rothenberg is also aware of the democratic effort, not least, which is now an integral part of aid and which is aimed at strengthening democracy around the world. I certainly do not hope that Mr Rothenberg believes that Social Democrats are in any way opposed to a market economy. We see it as deeply worrying that, for example, free trade, of which we are a warm supporter, has been called into question as a result, among other things, of the authoritarian development that we are seeing around the world.
i-45175ea3013b547a-765	Mr. Old President! That's exactly how it is. That's where I think we're on the same page. We are in favour of a market economy. We affirm democracy and human rights. It is the three basic elements that create civilised and developmentable societies. There is often too little talk of freedom in the economy as an opportunity to lift the other two elements as well. Freedom in a market economy is based on respect between people. Contracts shall be kept. It is a human right that agreements be kept, that they keep their promises. In the democratic effort that the government is making, I lack just a little bit of a focus on making sure that the market economy is used as the tool that can lift those countries that are often under authoritarian regimes – right, left or even worse. I would like to hear what you want to do more concretely on the part of the Social Democrats.
i-45175ea3013b547a-768	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for the great commitment and for the praiseworthy words, yet, about the absolutely necessary democratic effort as part of the aid! I do not think that we Social Democrats at any time have been unclear on the point that one of the most important factors for reversing the negative developments we are now seeing around the world – I mentioned girls and women here as such – is, of course, precisely to create growth and access to jobs. We must get the economies back on track in these countries and have a wealth that can be distributed. On the other hand, we Social Democrats also believe that we need, for example, to strengthen the focus of aid on building long-term and stable institutions in these countries so that prosperity can also be distributed and not drained into corruption or other ways.
i-45175ea3013b547a-771	Mr. Old President! Not since the Nordic Passport Union was established almost 63 years ago, when Nordic citizens were given the right to move freely within the Nordic countries without passports and with abolished internal border controls between our countries, Nordic freedom of movement has been compromised for so long as since the outbreak of the Covidpindemin last year. Since the Second World War, the border between Sweden and Norway has not been guarded by military forces on both sides of the border. When, for the first time after six long months of closed Finnish border with Sweden in September last autumn, I had to go to our Finnish neighboring society Ylitornio, I was met by heavily armed personnel from the Finnish Border Guard who reviewed my entry documents. This became for me and thousands of other frontierrs not only an unpleasant, very unreal and almost surreal experience, but above all a painful reminder. The border that we have not seen since our countries' accession to the EU 25 years ago, the border we have not experienced in our daily lives, the border we have done everything to reduce to a line on a map, the border that we have moved across for centuries and worked together to benefit from and thus complement each other on both sides to help each other and solve common needs and problems – it was there. It's there. Now we all know thousands of Swedes in the Torne Valley, in the Öresund region and along western Sweden towards the Norwegian border that the border is there, and it can become hard. It can tear apart our societies, our families and our lives at any time and seemingly forever. It puts us without income and opportunities to pay bills and put food on the table. Nordic cooperation is in a moment of fate. This is where it's decided. This is where it stands and weighs. Is this cooperation supposed to survive this strain and the damaged trust in each other? Mr. Old President! The outbreak of the Covidpandemic has affected the Nordic citizens in a paradoxical way. It is not just us frontierrs who have taken the Nordic freedom of movement for granted. Many are the Swedes, Norwegians, Danes and Finns who are surprised that the countries have made such different choices to face and manage the pandemic instead of cooperating and helping each other. Regardless of what we citizens, elected representatives or the Nordic governments think and want or do not want in Nordic cooperation, the pandemic has shown that our citizens are counting on strong Nordic cooperation. They have expressed surprise that cooperation was not deeper, was not wider, when the crisis came and hit our countries. Mr. Old President! The fact that Nordic citizens are actually counting on Nordic cooperation, not only when everything is going on but also when it is in crisis, is what fills me as a Nordic center politician with the most hope for the future when now decades of cooperation and concrete results are unfortunately jeopardised. Citizens' expectations of Nordic cooperation are justified and call us as national and Nordic decision-makers for action and determination. Perhaps the task ahead of us has never been greater. We must restore confidence in Nordic cooperation as well as Nordic cooperation with our good neighbours in the Baltic countries. It is not enough, however, to restore confidence, which will be challenging enough in our border regions. Even before the pandemic hit us, it became clear that we need to breathe new life and create new energy, new glow, in Nordic cooperation – at least if we want to go in line with our citizens' expectations. The latest major survey, which covered 3 000 Nordics, showed that Nordic residents think that cooperation is important. The two main foundations of cooperation are considered to be common values and similar social systems, whereas cultural similarities and linguistic understanding are actually less important. Some of the most central Nordic values, such as freedom of expression, equal rights and values of all people and open and democratic processes, have been threatened and put under strong pressure in recent years. When the citizens of the Nordic countries make their voices heard, they highlight our community of values and the need to assert it in an environment where these values are being pushed back. Values that affect democracy, transparency and human dignity are strong among the Nordic population. Mr. Old President! When we look at how our countries have handled the pandemic, it is striking how the very essence of citizens' expectations of Nordic benefits that cooperation should deliver is, unfortunately, precisely what is affected by the absence of joint crisis management and proactive coordination between the countries and governments. We must now leave the past behind, where those who want the least with Nordic cooperation in practice decide most. We now need to take strong action to renew and develop cooperation in order to save what can be saved. We need to step up and develop efforts to remove more border barriers because, unfortunately, we have received even more during the pandemic. We need to develop our societal readiness and acquire a common crisis management capability. We need to develop cross-border mobility, mobility and cross-border communication. We need to develop and deepen our defence and security cooperation. Together, we are stronger. Together, we can and will make a difference.
i-45175ea3013b547a-783	Mr. Old President! While Sweden celebrates 100 years of democracy, we see how the global space for democracy decreases and how human rights are violated in a large number of countries. We see it in our neighbourhood, as in Belarus, Russia and Poland, but we also see it in countries such as Turkey, Hungary and China. The current pandemic has further exacerbated the situation. In this serious situation, Sweden must make further efforts to become once again an independent and independent voice in the world for democracy, human rights, peace and disarmament. We have an excellent opportunity now that Sweden is leading the OSSE in 2021. In China, fundamental democratic rights such as freedom of expression, organisation and assembly are systematically violated in the fierce dictatorship. Hong Kong introduced the so-called Security Act, which was the end of democracy and freedom of expression as well as of the principle of one country, two systems. The abuses and violations of the Chinese regime affect the whole of Chinese society, but ethnic and religious minorities and falungong activists are particularly vulnerable. There is clear evidence that human organs from prisoners of conscience were used in transplants. Thousands of Uighurs have been displaced into concentration - like retraining camps and slave labor. Torture is used systematically. Inner Mongolia is now becoming a new Tibet, a new Xinjiang. The Chinese regime's policy is to try to eradicate the Mongolian language and the Mongolian traditions altogether. Those who protest are harassed, persecuted and imprisoned. Against this background, it is remarkable that Sweden is threatening to expel asylum seekers from this area to a fairly safe prison sentence. Instead, Sweden should act forcefully in the EU to impose sanctions on China. Companies investing in China, for example, must also take responsibility for human rights. It is good that there is a process going on around this in the EU, but Sweden could already now set up an investigation into how a law on entrepreneurship and human rights can be integrated into Sweden's legal system. In Turkey, Mr Erdo中an continues his policy of full power, and the situation has further worsened during the pandemic. The scope for opposition and civil society is shrinking. The harassment of the Kurdish population continues, and a large number of politicians, journalists and oppositionists are still in prison – including the former party leader of the democratic party HDP, Selahattin Demirta ş. Women have been particularly affected, and violence against women has increased during the pandemic both at home and in society. It is important that the outside world sees what is happening in Turkey and protests against the abuses. Sweden can play an important role here. It is also important that we continue to support all the democratic forces that are still fighting for democracy and human rights in Turkey. Nor must we forget to protest against Israel's illegal occupation of Palestine, against the illegal settlements and against the arbitrary imprisonment and harassment of Palestinian children. Sweden must stand up for a peaceful two-state solution and support the forces fighting against violence and for democracy in the region. Finally, I want to talk about the occupied Western Sahara. The situation has changed dramatically since I stood here a year ago; then the Sahrawi people still hoped for the UN and for a peaceful solution to the over 45-year-long conflict. The truce is now broken. The underlying cause of the war outbreak is that Morocco has built a road through the buffer zone in the south, completely contrary to previous agreements – a road used mainly by the occupying power to remove stolen raw materials from the occupied Western Sahara. The ceasefire came about after the parties agreed to hold a referendum on the independence of Western Sahara. It is a referendum that has still not taken place almost 30 years later. Sweden must now increase the pressure on the UN to bring about the referendum as soon as possible, because that is the only solution to this conflict. Western Sahara in the occupied part of the country are subjected to systematic threats, harassment and imprisonment on a daily basis. The situation has worsened further in recent times. In practice, there has been a long-standing state of emergency in the occupied Western Sahara. Morocco has total control, not the United Nations. Virtually no independent journalists or observers are allowed into the country. It is high time that the outside world acted forcefully to protect the Sahrawi population. Sweden must work for the International Red Cross to enter the country. Sweden must also recognise the Sahrawi state, in accordance with the majority decision taken in the Riksdag in 2012. It would give the Sahrawi people new hope and improve their negotiating position. Finally, Sweden must strongly condemn the fact that, under President Trump, the United States proclaimed that the United States recognises Morocco's right to Western Sahara, which is totally contrary to international law and the UN decision. Sweden must be clear and demand that the current President, Joe Biden, repeal this senseless decision as soon as possible.
i-45175ea3013b547a-796	Mr. Old President! I shall highlight one aspect that I think flies a little under the radar in the shadow of the pandemic and everything else that happens in the field of foreign policy in the world, namely the climate aspect and the climate refugees we are about to get. We all know that 2020 was marked by record fires in California and glaciers that calved to an extent we have never experienced. The tundra melts in Siberia, and we had three record - warm months with the highest temperatures ever measured. Other frightening news came this week: We now know that the Gulf Stream has already weakened by 20 percent and that it risks weakening by another 33 percent – yes, up to 45 percent – up to 2100. It is mainly about the northern part of the Gulf Stream, and it would directly affect the living conditions in Sweden and the Nordic region. It's a real horror scenario. Everyone understands that it is now serious. The fight against climate change is really the fight for a stable and secure world. Me and the Center Party see the Paris Agreement as basically a peace agreement. I think it is an underrated security policy danger facing the world, and I will give some examples. We had the privilege of being part of the OSCE delegation, and we were in Marrakech, Morocco, just over a year ago. Over the last five years, climate change has been very visible there. There is no snow in the Atlas Mountains, which is located right next to Marrakech, which means that the wells in Marrakech have gone from a normal depth of 20 - 25 meters to a depth of 125 meters in five years. It used to be 50 degrees for maybe a week straight, and now it's 50 degrees for two months straight. This makes living conditions so absurdly bad that it is hardly possible to remain there. We know that climate change actually formed a large part of the basis of the war in Syria. The agricultural population was forced to move to the big cities because it was not possible to use the land and practice traditional industries. We know that much of the flow of refugees across the Mediterranean is due to the fact that it is no longer possible to farm there. In other words, it creates huge concerns and trouble spots in the world. If we look at figures, we can see that the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) counted 79 1⁄2 million refugees in 2019, which is the latest statistics. It was a very powerful increase in just one year, of which 30 to 34 million are children. Thus, about 1% of the world's population is on the run, and it is worth noting that this is actually only the beginning. According to the UN, there will be some 250 million climate refugees, that is, three times more than today, by 2050. It's 29 years from now, and I hope most of us in this room are still alive then. In 29 years' time, then, we will have three times as many refugees for climate reasons as we have today. It is a radical change that has very frightening effects. However, I have only raised one aspect of climate change, namely the climate refugees we can have. In addition, we can add that with the climate crisis we will have a great deal of anxiety and struggle around arable land, the struggle for water resources and a powerful impact on GDP growth worldwide. We will have distributional conflicts between rich and poor countries, between the northern and southern hemispheres and between the highlands and lowlands. It will then be understood what concerns climate change will create in the field of foreign policy in the future. Madam President, I would like What can Sweden and Swedish foreign policy do? From the Center Party's side, we see three things that are extra central. First of all, we should continue to take the lead and set a good example to change quickly in the world. We have record conditions with water and wind power, a lot of forest, rich population, high technical expertise and so on. We're really going to go ahead and change. Secondly, we need to make demands on the major emitters, and I am thinking, above all, of two. One country is China. China has actually raised the bar and assumed that it should reduce its emissions significantly. But it does not help if you build a coal power plant this week, which was done in 2020. We must, of course, demand that China live up to what it promises. The other country is Brazil. The deforestation of the Amazon, which is one of the most important in the world, is totally unacceptable. In addition, it has a direct impact on the Gulf Stream. Thirdly, we need to focus our aid so that it is largely climate aid. It's serious now. It is essential that we think in new ways about this and see the climate issue as the real issue of peace.
i-45175ea3013b547a-809	Madam President, I would like Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde mentions that Sweden has pushed for fair global access to vaccines against covid-19. The Secretary of State mentions Covax, the global vaccine cooperation. But what is not mentioned in the declaration is that Covax is limping. The truth is that Covax has not had sufficient funding, although the EU has now increased the effort. But that is not the real problem. The problem is that the vaccine volumes are not enough. Besides, they're already sold out. The drug giants simply don't have the power. The head of the World Health Organization Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has asked rich countries to check the need before ordering further vaccines because it undermines efforts to get vaccines to poor countries. Rich countries have bought up billions of vaccine doses, while some countries have zero access to vaccines. In fact, this shows that South Africa's and India's proposals in the WHO to pause intellectual property and patent rights for covid-19 vaccines and covid-19-related medicines are the right way forward. The problem is the lack of volumes, of production. Following this proposal opens up the possibility for more countries to produce cheaper vaccines, so that the poorer countries will not have to wait until 2023. If the virus is not defeated everywhere, we cannot defeat it globally. This means that we will have areas that can become breeding ground for new variants, and then we will be standing there again. If it is a question of protecting the financial interests of the major pharmaceutical giants, I can assure you that they will not suffer to the extent that one can sometimes believe. Much of the research was funded from our tax resources. Moderns received SEK 20 billion from the U.S. government. Astra Zeneca received about 20 billion from the EU and 20 billion from the US. Pfizer has received a grant from the German State to finance Bontech as a whole, and Bontech is the company that has developed the vaccine for Pfizer. Sales are secure for a long time. Madam President, I would like During this term of office, I have tabled several interpellations on trade policy. One might wonder what drives trade policy. During colonialism and the beginning of world trade trade was conducted on the basis of conquering, controlling and exploiting areas outside their own state. Being a strong and successful country in Europe was directly related to the number of colonies and the availability of raw materials they provided. Clear parallels can be drawn between today's trade and colonialism. The degree of similarity varies, of course, but the power relations are the same. Today, transnational companies have incredible power over the economies of countries. Many countries see themselves as suppliers of raw materials rather than trying to develop the country and production further. We have a way forward before trade leads to the development of countries on both sides. Trade agreements such as Mercosur are designed to meet the needs of big business. Yes, environmental and labour law parameters are included, but they are not clear enough. Moreover, the agreements are contradictory. The criticism of the Mercosur Agreement can be described in three points. The first is that it exacerbates environmental degradation and the climate crisis. The second is that it increases human rights violations and does not allow for justice. The third is that it is an agro-export-oriented agreement, which means that power relations remain the same. The Mercosur Agreement leads to monocultures, environmental degradation, deforestation, fires, stopped watercourses, dehydration and so on. Leaked documents show that a renegotiation of the agreement is required. France does not want to ratify what it looks like now, as it does not want to undermine health and environmental standards. In addition, the agreement will lead to an increase in EU imports of beef and chicken from Mercosur countries, which will create additional pressure on EU animal welfare standards and on small farmers both there and here. As trade agreements are driven by economic interests with an increase in agrovolumes, they will increase the problems created by companies, particularly in the area of human rights. Finally, I would like to highlight the undermining of democracy. Here we need to be clearer in our analysis and criticism. It is not healthy for Chile to still be counted as a democracy when it has over 2 000 political prisoners, whose legal process is corrupt.
i-45175ea3013b547a-824	Madam President, I would like Around the world, over 165 million people need humanitarian aid. In Agenda 2030 we have a focus on sustainable development that permeates Sweden's work, and it is important that we strategically and purposefully work according to it. Sweden has effective world-class aid, and I am proud and pleased that the government stands by the 1% target. I am also proud of our feminist foreign policy, where we are clear that equality between women and men is a fundamental objective. As we heard the Foreign Minister say earlier today, the government plans to decide on new development cooperation strategies in Latin America. I look forward to seeing that work, and it is in Latin America that I will dwell on this speech. Many countries in Latin America have advanced in terms of both the economy, gender equality and democracy. Unfortunately, various crises, not least the pandemic, have not only halted this work but also led to a major decline in these issues. Madam President, I would like In Latin America we find some of the world's poorest countries, such as Honduras and Paraguay. We find middle class countries such as Guatemala and Ecuador, which have extremely distorted resource distribution and huge differences between the poor and the rich. Chile is perhaps the richest country in Latin America, and most Chileans have been better off over the last 20 years of strong economic growth. At the same time, Chile is still one of the countries where the class gap is greatest. In Mexico too, income differentials are enormous. Madam President, I would like This makes Latin America complex and has large gaps. In rural areas, maize, coffee, bananas and soya beans are grown, but many farmers do not even own their own land. Conditions similar to slavery sometimes occur in rural areas and particularly affect indigenous peoples. In cities, large foreign companies set up in so-called tax-free zones, where they operate under favourable tax conditions in free trade zones. The tax evasion from these countries is great. These are the means that would really have been needed for the development and well-being of the countries. Madam President, I would like Violence and high crime are a major social problem. In rural areas it is poor, which has led to many people moving into the cities. This, in turn, has resulted in shantytowns with extreme social problems. The many youth gangs engage in drug trafficking and protection activities but also cooperate with various organised crime syndicates dealing with people, drugs and weapons. As in the rest of the world, unemployment, lack of education, broken families, and hopelessness are the basis for recruitment for these gangs. Madam President, I would like Poor nutrition and hygiene cause diseases. In rural areas, health care is poorly developed, and in urban slums clean water is scarce. The hygienic conditions are poor. Diarrhoea is a common cause of death, as well as complications associated with pregnancy and childbirth. Infant mortality rates are high. Especially miserable are the conditions – once again – in rural areas, where indigenous people dominate. Up to half of all children under the age of five are chronically malnourished. Madam President, I would like The labour market is unequal and far fewer women than men work in the public sector. Women generally have worse working conditions than men and are more often subjected to harassment in the workplace. Indeed, unemployment among women in Brazil has increased since paid maternity leave was introduced at the end of the 1980s because many mothers simply receive dismissal. Teen pregnancy is becoming more common, and pregnancy is the most common reason why girls aged 10 to 14 are in hospital. In Honduras abortion is totally forbidden, although the mother's life is at stake. In other countries abortion is permitted in the event of serious threats to the woman's life and health or, in some cases, in the event of rape. There are light points. In Argentina, abortion until week 14 has been legalized since last year after a hard struggle in the Senate. Until now, 3,000 women a year have died of illegal abortions since 1983. Madam President, I would like In Latin America – as in other countries – development work is important. But here at home the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates are now acting to try to reduce development cooperation. During the pandemic, when people are limited from meeting and bridging linguistic and cultural borders, Swedish parties are taking the opportunity to attack aid, to pit groups and people against each other and to try to convince people that we in Sweden – one of the richest countries in the world – are so miserable that we cannot afford to give up one hundredth of our economic surplus to development cooperation for people living in extreme conditions in poorer countries. Yes, we have problems and many things to deal with here at home. But that does not mean that we need to cut back on development cooperation in Latin America and in the rest of the world.
i-45175ea3013b547a-839	Madam President, I would like I listened to Mr Laitinen's speech on Latin America. There she mentioned, among other things, that Chile has a good economy but that there are large income differences. She mentioned nothing about the democratic deficit that exists in Chile now. In fact, the state has both murdered and tortured. There are over 2,000 political prisoners, and over 400 have lost sight. Last week, an indigenous leader was murdered. I wonder how the Social Democrats define democracy in this context.
i-45175ea3013b547a-841	Madam President, I would like Chile has had a better financial situation over the years. However, there are also major problems with democracy, not only in Chile but throughout Latin America. We have environmental rights activists, journalists and other people who are trying to improve the society that is being murdered. In Honduras, 14 environmental activists were murdered in 2019, so this is a major problem. It is difficult to sum up all the points in six minutes, but this is a problem in Chile, as in the rest of Latin America. In a democracy, this should not happen; it is also, of course, the opinion of the Social Democrats.
i-45175ea3013b547a-843	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I can see that Chile is still considered to be a democracy, despite the fact that all of this is happening in the present. The honourable Member also mentioned the water, the countryside and how the great differences are hitting the indigenous peoples. At the same time, the Socialist Government stands for the Mercosur Agreement. I would like to hear how the Mercosur Agreement benefits the indigenous peoples.
i-45175ea3013b547a-845	Madam President, I would like I'm very new to Parliament. I have been here for just under six months, and I was given my responsibilities in the Foreign Affairs Committee four months ago. In the past, I have only been involved in municipal politics. I am not familiar with the Mercosur Agreement and therefore cannot respond to it today, but I am happy to come back with a response to it.
i-45175ea3013b547a-846	Madam President, I would like There are a few different types of lines in this House. There are those who are more direct and really aim for a hard debate, and there are those who are – or try to be – something more constructive. I think that this line is aimed at the latter, because I was very interested when the honourable Member spoke about the conditions in rural areas and Swedish aid and development cooperation. I would like to add this line to trying to drill a little deeper into this, because here I think we have one of the challenges both in development cooperation overall and in Swedish development cooperation. It is about actually reaching out to all the poor and dejected that we hope that aid and development cooperation will reach. This may have changed during the year, because, as I said, we have had a very difficult year, but before the pandemic we said that 70% of the world's poor live in rural areas. The majority of them are women, and the majority of them make a living from agriculture. Here I see a problem in that we do not reach them enough, and the Center Party would like to focus on that. How does Mrs Laitinen Carlsson see that this can be developed, and can she develop it something?
i-45175ea3013b547a-850	Madam President, I would like I agree with the honourable Member that this is exactly what it looks like. It looks like that throughout Latin America. We know that the differences between urban and rural areas are extremely large and that, in most cases, women and children are most affected. I do not have precise solutions for this here and now, but much of it is, of course, an infrastructure building. To improve infrastructure and to have more projects aimed at women and people in rural areas being able to provide more for themselves, I think, is a way to go to tackle these problems.
i-45175ea3013b547a-852	Madam President, I would like It should nevertheless be remembered that many of the countries in Latin America are countries that, through Agenda 2030, have a responsibility to lift their own population out of poverty. In many cases, I would say that there is a great lack of interest in addressing the problems in depth. Perhaps we need not only to help but also to put pressure on them. I am going back to the rural population, because this is a worldwide problem when we try to help lift people out of poverty. Here, however, there are things that we can imagine doing. In addition to the infrastructure, as the honourable Member mentioned, it is about increasing the empowerment of these people, that we are trying to bring about exactly the things that lifted the Swedish population out of poverty: access to education, access to a functioning rule of law, access to effective property rights, access to capital flows and financial instruments. It doesn't have to be big banks. In Sweden it is about something as basic as L andshypotek. Does the honourable Member see that we can reinforce that work?
i-45175ea3013b547a-854	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the honourable Member on this point. Of course, there are opportunities to strengthen people, and education, as the honourable Member mentioned, is a major key to this issue. It is also about getting people to take power over their own lives. For example, we need to ensure that multinationals take their responsibility to reduce corruption, so that people can focus on a higher level of self-sufficiency. We see, for example, how the Amazon is now being destroyed to produce soybeans. They are sold to other countries and do not stay in the country. Here we have a huge problem to work on to teach people what gives self-interest. The same is true when we come to nutrition.
i-45175ea3013b547a-856	Madam President, I would like What is more appropriate than rounding off the annual foreign policy debate by taking on the very necessary multilateral systems? When authoritarian regimes such as Russia and China move forward positions and threaten standards of international cooperation that have built peace and global prosperity, when human rights are erased in countries such as Venezuela and Myanmar and are exempted in Hong Kong, demands are made on the joint leadership of the free world and stronger multilateral cooperation. With an increasingly obvious internationalisation, shrinking world, more exposed and at the same time more intertwined world with attacking viruses or bleeding climate change, the small country of Sweden needs to hook arms with our Nordic neighbours and our friends in Europe and together step forward globally for trade, security, security and growth. Our time has proved to be the time of the pandemic. We have the attack from covid along with challenges such as climate, corruption and poverty. But in the near future it is really just about rolling out hope, the vaccine, and it requires more international cooperation to succeed, not less. The new world demands it. It is good that Europe is a major financier of the global covax vaccine cooperation, even at the moment. But leadership is also needed, for as long as not all continents are vaccinated, mutations will continue to occur, reports WHO, and the pandemic will continue to reap life. Madam President, I would like We live in a to say the least unpredictable world in times when much is put on end. We are in a pandemic that takes life, destroys economies and societies and pushes development back. Conflicts and global challenges require a common approach. We see an increasing call into question of international systems and multilateral solutions, which undermines the opportunities for joint responsibility. Joint international responsibility is crucial to us Moderates. Sweden's voice should be trusted in international contexts. In the time of reform, we need to ensure that the UN, the WTO and the WHO are modernised, and Sweden should be proactive, responsible and forward-looking. Madam President, I would like It is at home, at the kitchen tables and on our own street, that we make the vital decisions that play a role in this critical phase of the pandemic. However, it is not close to itself. We therefore need today, as we do, to raise our eyes and emphasise the importance of further reforms in international and multilateral cooperation. It plays a role in global crises. The hinges must be oiled. They can't get rusted up. UN Secretary-General António Guterres recently said: This is our 1945. And it really is. We experience in 2021 something similar to what the world experienced in 1945. The ability of the free world to act together is crucial in a time of increased major power conflicts and a changed geopolitical landscape, where Russia and China are increasingly a challenge. The United States has so far withdrawn, and authoritarian forces have been given greater scope to challenge international law. Now there are great hopes that this will change after the presidency change in the United States. But we can't go back. Biden's not Trump. The Biden is not Obama either. Times have changed and are not as they were yesterday. We elected representatives here in Parliament put great effort into working together for change. We should be a nail in the eye to overcome inefficiencies and corruption and, in coalition with the world's democracies, to protect human rights and the rule of law. Only last week I had the privilege of once again chairing a Swedish delegation, now digitally, for talks at the UN with parliamentarians. It was one in a series of international contexts where parliamentarians meet, debate, engage, take responsibility and act together to tackle global crises. The United Nations, the Interparliamentary Union and parliamentarians globally had discussions on the fight against corruption – this despicable cancer that is growing stronger unless the free world clearly stands up for the principles of the rule of law. It is corruption that is the evil that is the wound in the construction of human rights and democracy, as well as the rights of women, htbq people and children. The job's still to be done. The strategy is in place. Madam President, I would like Democracy as we know it, we like it best, even if it is not infallible. It enables everyone's equal value and broad commitment. We say the same thing about the UN. The UN is the best thing we know, but it is absolutely not perfect. The UN, which came into being in a completely different time, almost a completely different world, must now be involved in changing. When it comes to the UN, we in the Swedish parliament believe that we must work for a better future. That is why we need a reformed UN looking forward. The Corona crisis has once again proved that we united but divided we fell. In today's polarized world with a new geopolitical environment and with more value-based conflicts, multilateral cooperation with the fundamental values of human rights, democracy and freedom will be absolutely crucial. These values and Swedish interests should not only stand up for, but we should also ensure that they lead us forward into the future.
i-45175ea3013b547a-873	Madam President, I would like Europe, the world and Sweden are in a serious crisis. The whole world is in a period of great change and geopolitical shifts. The relationship between the world's great powers is becoming increasingly confrontative, which is worsening the conditions for international cooperation, at a time when cross-border cooperation is more needed than perhaps ever before. That is why our membership of the European Union is so important. Despite countless crises, problems and challenges, European cooperation has stood the test. It certainly doesn't work perfectly all the time, and the Moderates aren't late to point it out. But it works after all and is actually a very important part of our foreign policy arena. We are in the midst of a pandemic, and I know that vaccines have been discussed several times here today. I just came from an open consultation in the EU Board where we also talked about it. Of course we can see the light in the tunnel, but we have a long way to go and are facing many great sacrifices here and now. But even in the face of changing crises, we must dare to look to the future. Sweden cannot afford to ask itself alongside the playing field when the playing field changes and new questions will be answered. This is particularly true of European cooperation, where we face major challenges. These include joint defence and security cooperation, climate change and migration. Sweden can and should play an important role in the development of Europe. That has been shown by previous governments. But then three things are needed: an understanding of what to do, an ability to prioritise and the ability to take action to get something done. If Sweden is to have an opportunity to influence the EU, a clear and well-balanced Swedish agenda is required. There are those who want a narrower Europe and those who want Europe to be as big as possible. But it's wrong. The EU should be relevant and do the right things, no more or less. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight four things that I believe are crucial for European policy to be relevant. Firstly, jobs, free trade and competitiveness. The Coronapendemy risks fuelling the trend of Europe losing economic strength vis-à-vis other parts of the world, not least China. If Europe is to become a leading force in the world seriously, we need to get our economy moving. A strong Europe is built by work, entrepreneurship, research and innovation, not EU taxes and subsidies. We need more trade and more internal market. Those who are now campaigning for greater solitude and protectionism are drawing completely the wrong conclusions from the current crisis. If they are allowed to set the agenda, we risk opposing what has been so successful for Sweden and Europe – and for the world economy as a whole. On the contrary, European cooperation must be used more to improve the basic conditions for jobs and growth. Secondly, environmental and climate cooperation. Sweden has a unique opportunity to become Europe's green force, and the EU must take the lead in technology development. Member States with the highest emissions need clear incentives and requirements to tackle their emissions. The EU can and must do more and not least show that it is possible to combine emissions reductions with economic growth. Politics needs to be well thought out. Ideological duplicators should not guide the choice of energy, but should give priority to the most cost-effective measures. Thirdly, a common foreign and security policy. The EU Member States cannot defend Europe on their own. The crucial transatlantic link for Europe's security needs to be strengthened, Sweden will go at the forefront to further develop the projects developed in recent years. If Sweden can get the EU to speak with one voice on key foreign policy issues, it can make a real difference in the outside world. Sweden will also be able to assert its interests in a way that we cannot on our own. Fourthly, the rule of law. This was also the case with my colleague Cecilia Widegren just now. The values and principles of democracy, the rule of law, free movement and transparency that built Europe need to be safeguarded. One of our greatest challenges is that the EU and its Member States did not stand firm on these fundamental values. Countries that water down our common rule of law and the fundamental principles of the European Union must be challenged with the new legal state mechanism for conditionality that is finally in place. Now it is important to ensure that it is actually used as well. Madam President, I would like We live in a difficult time. That is precisely why we must seize all the opportunities for greater freedom, growing prosperity and cleaner environment that exist in our country and in the world. Part of the answer is available in the EU. Europe is in a situation where a strong Swedish voice is perhaps more important than ever. The Moderates offer this. We know what we want, both in Sweden and in Europe.
i-45175ea3013b547a-888	Madam President, I would like The first sentence of the EU's first security strategy, which was written at the beginning of the 21st century, reads: Europe has never been as prosperous, as secure and as free as it is today. In the second security strategy, which was written a few years ago, the first sentence was: we are in a deep existential crisis, both within and beyond the borders of the Union. These two time documents reflect quite well the dramatic decade that Europe and the rest of the world have gone through. Various crises have replaced each other: financial crisis, debt crisis, refugee crisis, trade crisis and now Corona crisis. The pandemic is the biggest crisis that the world is going through at global level since the end of World War II. However, not everything is night black. The light in the tunnel is, as I said, vaccinated. They have been produced in about ten months through enormous work, creativity and innovation. Normally, such a process takes ten years. Madam President, I would like The vaccines make a difference. According to some studies, they are estimated to save up to 150 million lives. There is no doubt that the pandemic will be an important catalyst for technological, social and geopolitical change, and we have probably only seen the beginning. Madam President, I would like Joe Biden's entry as President of the United States gives hope to those of us who believe that the world will be better when Europe and the United States work together. A common transatlantic agenda for global cooperation is now needed, and I see three areas as particularly important. Firstly, we need to develop common strategies to address the geopolitical challenges of Russia and China. Secondly, we need enhanced cooperation linked to new technologies such as AI, digitisation, 5G and cyber. The proposal to establish a joint EU-US Trade and Technology Council could take this issue forward. Thirdly, we need much deeper cooperation across the Atlantic linked to the climate issue. The re-entry of the United States into the Paris Agreement creates new opportunities for this. Madam President, I would like NATO is the strongest expression of the transatlantic link. It is the only forum where North Americans and Europeans meet every day to respond to and address different security challenges. It is also NATO that is the backbone of the European security structure, which Russia repeatedly challenges by trying to move the European borders by military force. President Biden has clearly declared that he will invest in NATO. The announcement at the security conference in Munich this week that the United States will not take back troops from Germany is a positive sign. The UK is also committed to further developing its relationship with NATO. This is highlighted in the review now being carried out in the field of foreign and defence, which will be presented in March. The UK also contributes to stability and security in the Baltic Sea region by taking responsibility for one of NATO's combat groups in Estonia and the Joint Expeditionary Force. After Britain's withdrawal from the EU, 80% of total defence expenditure in the Euro-Atlantic region is within NATO but outside the EU. After the British left the EU, we have lost important security and defence policy competences within the EU. It is serious for the EU in general and Sweden in particular, especially because, unfortunately, it became a non-contractual Brexit when it came to security, foreign and defence policy. Sweden has thus lost its most important ally within the EU in this area, while our most important foreign and security policy platform has unfortunately been weakened. All of this will have consequences for Sweden's safety policy choices. The Moderate line has long been clear. We want to see a Swedish NATO membership. Then we would have access to cooperation with binding defence obligations and be part of NATO's joint defence planning. In doing so, we would no longer have to hope, believe or wish to be assisted by other NATO members in an armed attack, but we would actually know that. It would also create a completely different stability and security from the web of international defence cooperation that has been built up by this government in recent years. Madam President, I would like For the Moderates, there has never been a contradiction between working for Swedish NATO membership and deepening the EU's security and defence cooperation. We want both and, unlike the government, which I sometimes experience neither wants nor. It has been suggested that the EU should develop into a common defence union until 2025, as a European pillar within NATO. The government is against this, probably because it affects the military freedom of alliance. However, we Moderates are open to it if it both strengthens NATO and can further develop the EU's defence cooperation. Sweden now needs a clear agenda for what we want to achieve with EU defence cooperation. This is particularly important now, Madam President, when work has begun to develop a strategic compass for the threats, risks and vulnerabilities that exist in Europe's security but also for the level of ambition that the EU should have in this area in the future.
i-45175ea3013b547a-905	Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate today, we have heard moderate representatives expressing the wish that the government should invite to talks on the security policy line. I assume that Pål Jonson is behind the moderate demand. He himself has been involved in pushing forward the majority decision that was taken here in the Parliament in December on the so-called NATO option. Now it is not my job to invite such conversations, but I am infinitely curious of myself by nature and as a person. Therefore, my questions to Pål Jonson are: If it were the case that the government would invite such talks, will the Moderates come? Will the Moderates stay? And if so, will the Moderates keep the agreements that are made?
i-45175ea3013b547a-907	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kenneth G. Forslund, for the question. Yes, of course. We ask for broad political deliberations linked to Sweden's security policy line. I think that it should contain three elements: we must look at how Brexit and the Declaration of Solidarity are affected when the British have left the European Union. I think that deserves a discussion. I think we need to have a discussion linked to a NATO option in the light of the parliamentary realities that exist here. And so it would be reasonable for us to have a discussion linked to how the Swedish-Finnish operational defence cooperation beyond peacetime conditions actually affects the security policy line. Yeah, we're gonna come. What we expect is to have a serious depth of intention and to invite all eight parties involved to the Swedish Parliament. We work with the order that we want broad solutions, and then we think it is reasonable that all parties should be invited to consultations. Perhaps I can expect this from the government in a first step.
i-45175ea3013b547a-909	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is not my job to invite you to a conversation, but I am infinitely curious. I'm also somewhat doubting. Pål Jonson says they will of course come. Yes, I can believe that. He says they will participate. Possibly, I'd say. Unfortunately, when it comes to keeping agreements, the list of calls and agreements that have been concluded discourages. High-speed trains, where it was also the alliance government itself that invited: The Moderates dropped out. The 2016 housing talks: The Moderates dropped out. The defense committee, where I myself sat, but not Pål Jonson at the time: The Moderates dropped out. The gang calls, the Moderates dropped out. That's how it goes. Is this credible, Pål Jonson?
i-45175ea3013b547a-911	Madam President, I would like Yes, why not take this discussion a little closer to our own policy area? After all, we were both involved in the defence negotiations and know that it was the Minister of Defence who interrupted the negotiations linked to a defence agreement on 9 June, without his support in Parliament for his proposal. It wasn't that we dropped out when it was going on. We were very persevering, I dare say, because the defence negotiations did not lead the way at all. We have managed to find some broad solutions linked to defence policy, and we agree in several respects. We have supported civil defence. We are behind the war organization and the basic organisation that the government has presented. We have made a real effort to find broad solutions in the area of security and defence policy. It's a responsibility. We will not move the goal posts if you want to meet us so that we can find broad agreements, Kenneth G. Forslund. I look forward to an invitation from the government. I hope that was a preliminary indication given by Kenneth G. Forslund today.
i-45175ea3013b547a-914	Madam President, I would like The Nordic region – our closest neighbours and brothers, culturally and historically well anchored in each other. The world's most integrated region we want to be. Unfortunately, the pandemic has created completely new conditions for our Nordic cooperation. Nordic cooperation is strong, I would still say. Since the entry into force of the Helsinki Agreement on 1 July 1962, we have constantly worked to develop our close ties. The common Nordic labour market is perhaps what shows our citizens most clearly how we have grown together. The common labour market has served us well. The Öresund region, Bohuslän and Värmland are examples of areas where land borders usually seem to be almost delineated. We live in one country and work in another, and we shop and vacation with each other. Norway is one of Sweden's most important trading partners. We are dependent on each other, an addiction that in an otherwise uncertain world feels safe and predictable. But, Madam President, the pandemic has dramatically changed this. Borders have been closed, many do not come to work, business in border areas suffer and people become unemployed. The tone between neighbouring countries has become tougher and exclusive. During the pandemic, it has turned out that Nordic cooperation, which has felt so natural that we have not even thought about it before, needs to be nurtured and developed. When Norway closed its borders to Swedish commuters, the lives of more than 6,000 Swedes became very difficult. Even without the opportunity to get to work, income disappears and you end up outside the support systems that Norway offers those who are financially affected by the pandemic. The answers we get when we address the unsustainable situation that this has created is that, based on the existing regulations, nothing can be done to make it easier for all the people affected. The North is the sum of us who live here. If we want to be the most integrated region in the world, we must ensure that, even in difficult times, we can maintain our good cooperation. Madam President, I would like Since the entry into force of the Helsinki Agreement on 1 July 1962, very positive developments have taken place. We have addressed border barriers, and we have developed close collaborations that make it possible to live, work and study in our Nordic countries and travel between them. But Nordic cooperation was not equipped for a global pandemic. This has become sadly clear over the last year. Confidence in our common labour market is under threat. Neighborhood is no longer welcoming, but exclusive. Nordic cooperation is not a natural law, but must be nurtured and developed. That is why, Madam President, I believe that it is now time for the government to initiate an updated agreement between us Nordic neighbours – the Brothers – which takes up the height of how we nurture cooperation even when we end up in the next global crisis.
i-45175ea3013b547a-921	Madam President, I would like I was going to use my minutes to say a few words about equality, something that none of the world's countries have actually achieved so far. Several Members have previously highlighted the fact that I am now going to raise, but it can stand to be repeated over and over again. We are celebrating here at least that this year it is 100 years since women in Sweden had equal voting rights for the first time and were able to cast their important vote in the elections. We, too, were able to influence the composition and political direction of Parliament. It was about time. However, we can never take this right for granted. These 100 years feel like a very long time, and at the same time it can be considered short in human history at large. The declaration presented by the government in today's debate states that our small country's feminist government also operates a feminist foreign policy for women's and girls' rights and that several other countries have followed Sweden. According to the government, Sweden has also taken on a leading role in the global coalition for economic equality. Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the positive attitude. It is amazing if our small country has the ability to influence the other countries of the world in the right direction, by our Western standards, namely to strengthen the position of women. But I can't help but think about the issue as well. I and the Swedish Democrats and the Minister and the Government have a slightly different view of how gender equality is to be achieved. Unlike the government, I see no use in the idea of quotas. It is an idea that according to the Swedish Democrats has the direct opposite effect and risks losing important and relevant competence. In my opinion, equality is only achieved when we have the same opportunities, regardless of gender. The Swedish feminist government has put on the leadership shirt to move the rest of the world's countries to follow in our wise footsteps. That's a nice thought. I just wonder how this is to be done with regard to dictatorships and the repression of women and girls and that human rights are not respected. How will our feminist government's quota ideas help women and girls in the world? It is also alarming that Sweden with its leadership shirt is currently in a decline where gender equality is seriously challenged. Not only is oppression being followed with fear in other countries. The government also ensures that oppression of women spreads in Sweden as well. Democracy, women's rights and freedom of expression are self-evident. Let's not forget that. Nor should we forget the important fact that our important work on gender equality must be cared for by elected representatives and by the people, both nationally and internationally. Let us continue to stand up for equal rights.
i-45175ea3013b547a-930	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that the government states that the countries of the Western Balkans are an important part of the EU's neighbourhood. At the same time, it is a little difficult to understand what the government means by this, as the foreign policy declaration says no more than just that. The former US government signed a trade and development agreement with Kosovo and Serbia with a view to improving relations between these countries. That is a good thing, since peace always develops through trade and relations. It is surprising, however, that Sweden and the EU are taking such a passive role in this work. We should do more to strengthen peace in the Balkans. In the past, I have highlighted the need for Kosovo to be granted the same visa-free status as the other Balkan countries. We should also work actively to develop civil society and business throughout the Balkans. Unless we in the West support this development in a democratic direction, there is a risk that totalitarian regimes in Russia and Turkey will increase their influence in the region. The Nordic countries and the EU show that free trade is a good way to create long-term lasting peace. I therefore hope that we in Sweden, together with the European Union, will do more to bring the Balkan countries closer to the European Union and that we will further improve the conditions for trade, student exchanges and contacts between different parts of civil society. Peace and freedom are always worth fighting for. We should therefore do more to strengthen peace in the Balkans, which ultimately means that all countries can recognise each other's sovereignty. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say that I fully share the concern and sorrow expressed by Moderate Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby regarding the current situation in the Nordic countries. We all know better. We can all do more. The Nordic countries are a common labour market and also a common rural area. Madam President, I would like With this, I wish that we do more to create peace and freedom in the Balkans and that we actually do more to get us back in the Nordic region to what most of us experience as a more natural relationship between our countries.
