i-e9d2d4b537265833-14	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me what measures I intend to take to persuade the Kurdistan regional government to respect freedom of expression and other democratic rights and to release the 26 journalists and other political prisoners and human rights activists as soon as possible. The human rights situation, democracy and the rule of law in Iraq are serious. This is made clear in the Government's report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Iraq, published in 2019. The protest movement that has been expressed since 2019 through recurring demonstrations around the country is under heavy pressure from actors who want to restrict freedom of expression. Both democracy activists and journalists have been subjected to arbitrary arrests and abductions, violence and targeted murders. According to Reporters Without Borders, Iraq ranks 162 out of 180 countries when it comes to freedom of the press. This should be compared to place 156 in 2019. I recently replied to Amineh Kakabaveh to parliamentary question 2020 21:211 on the arrest of Sherwani Sherwan and his fellow journalists in Iraqi Kurdistan, with the government looking very seriously at arrests and violence against journalists and human rights defenders in Iraq, including in the Kurdish region. The development of the Kurdish region in Iraq is currently characterised by an increasingly harsh political climate against opposition voices. It is with great concern that I note that three journalists, including Sherwani Sherwan, and two activists at a recent trial in Erbil were sentenced to six years in prison for serious crimes. It is also deeply worrying that the convicted and other detained opponents have been detained without sufficient legal protection. Sweden expects respect for human rights, including freedom of expression, freedom and independence in you, as well as the principles of the rule of law, to be maintained and has also recently expressed these views to political representatives in the Kurdish region of Iraq. Sweden has a broad commitment in Iraq to promote democratic development and respect for human rights. Through the development cooperation strategy with Iraq, we provide support to improve civil society's ability to organise with a particular focus on, among other things, human rights. We regularly raise human rights issues, including freedom of expression issues, and democracy in our dialogue with representatives of the federal government in Baghdad and of the KRG in Erbil. I will continue to inculcate in my meetings with Iraqi representatives, including representatives of the KRG, that we on the Swedish side expect human rights to be respected. Sweden is also engaged in a continuous dialogue with representatives of Iraqi civil society, including in Kurdistan. Sweden is a driving force within the EU and the UN and in other contexts when it comes to paying attention to human rights violations in Iraq. We are working within the EU to deepen cooperation with Iraq in order to promote greater democracy and greater respect for human rights.
i-6s95RkT1k1C1BC4MU3CbCG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, for your answer. I believe, just as the Foreign Minister is concerned, that it is important to mark and to support and stand up for free speech and for human rights, not least in Kurdistan. It is sad, Madam President, that I myself, as a Kurdish, should stand here and criticise. But it is also part of my and our work as socialists, feminists and people who have fought. No society has developed without criticism, not even our democracy, which we are fighting for day and night. That is also why we are politicians in this country. Everyone who is friends of freedom, solidarity and democracy criticises in such a way as we do here. I therefore hope that this will be heard. I know that in all parts of Kurdistan there is great interest in this debate, because we are now talking about the five, not three, journalists. Amnesty and many other organisations such as Reporters Without Borders and Human Rights Watch and many institutions and politicians in the United States and the West have criticized what has happened and have highlighted these issues and people, who have simply done their job as journalists. They've reviewed the power. They have examined corruption, and they have examined in particular that part of Kurdistan where under clan leaders and Masrour Barzani there have been violations of freedom of expression and democracy. These violations have increased considerably because they are so afraid of their powers. We also know that the Kurds have both Turkey and Iran against them. One way it's Barzani, the other is PUK's area. But it does not legitimise kidnapping, torture and imprisonment of those people who want development in Kurdistan. Sherwani Sherwan is one of these famous journalists. In fact, I invited him to the Swedish Parliament just over two years ago. He met human rights organisations and politicians in Europe. I think he also met with the State Department. One of the charges against him is that he has met people abroad. It's classified by Barzani and according to the trial as espionage. He is considered to have been disloyal. I spoke the day before yesterday with one of his lawyers — or their lawyers, because there are five of them. The lawyer stressed very strongly: We have not been given any material, Amineh. The prisoners have been taken in an inhuman and unworthy way to the courtroom on 15 and 16 February. They were blindfolded and put in a cage in Barzani's military court. None of the lawyers were allowed to see them before or read the verdict. It is also claimed that Sherwani Sherwan has been threatened that his wife would be raped if he did not admit that he is a spy. It's terrible. I hope we demand their release.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-27	Madam President, I would like As Amineh Kakabaveh does, the government is also looking with great concern at the human rights situation in Iraq, including the Kurdish region. We follow events closely and continuously highlight human rights in our bilateral dialogue with political representatives of the Provincial Government of Erbil and the Central Government of Baghdad, as well as through the EU and the UN. The trend we see is deeply worrying. In the past, I have condemned the existence of targeted killings of activists and attacks on demonstrators. I have also stressed the importance of the Iraqi authorities ensuring accountability for these crimes and abuses, as well as the fact that demonstrators can enjoy their human rights and gather and express their views. I have expressed my deep concern about the deadly violence associated with the demonstrations and protests that have been going on in Iraq since autumn 2019. The multiannual prison sentences against journalists and activists that we are now seeing in the Kurdish region deepen this worrying trend. Just as the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative for Iraq, Jeanine Hennis-Hennis-Plasschaert, said in her last quarterly briefing in the Security Council, in a democracy there is no place for repression and violations of human rights such as freedom of expression and assembly. Democracy requires transparency, fairness and accountability. Unfortunately, these fundamental principles are often absent in Iraq, including the Kurdish region, as the representative has pointed out. Respect for human rights, including freedom of expression and the free and independent media, is fundamental in a democratic society. Continued democratisation and peace-building in Iraq after several years of conflict require that all citizens be given the opportunity to make their voice heard and participate actively in the social debate without fear of being subjected to repression, threats, violence or forced disappearances. This also applies, of course, to journalists and activists, who have a social duty to examine injustice, abuse of power and corruption and to demand responsibility from those in power. Sweden shares close inter-folk ties with Iraq including Kurdistan. These bonds form the basis for Sweden's broad and long-term engagement in Iraq, which aims to support peace, stability and democratisation. As I mentioned earlier, the strategy for Sweden's development cooperation with Iraq supports efforts to improve and strengthen civil society's ability to operate and organise, with a particular focus on, among other things, human rights. Several such projects were carried out by aid partners also in the Kurdish region, including with a focus on journalists, young people and women. Among other things, we support the organisation Internews, which supports women journalists by promoting an open social debate on women's rights, gender equality, attitudes and changes to norms.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-32	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is very important to mark against both the government of Iraq and, not least, the government of the KRG. Democracy and freedom of expression are being built and not allowed over a day, a night or a year. Iraq is a country that was hit by the dictator Saddam for 36 years. Now it's chaos. In the Kurdish parts, however, it has been a little calmer, although Daish and many other Islamic terrorist groups have grown with the support of both Turkey and Iran – they have not been completely freed. In fact, they have been in power for 30 years now. For 30 years Sweden has also accounted for part of the aid. I believe it is important to demand the immediate release of these journalists and human rights activists, and I wonder whether the Foreign Minister will do so. They have been subjected to both physical and mental torture, according to the lawyer. Family members who protested against the sentence have been imprisoned, even young children. One of Sherwani Sherwan's children is under five, I think. Many of them stayed in the brig for 24 hours. This cannot be done in a part of a country where the Kurds themselves have fought for their human rights and freedoms. It is not easy to criticise power. The picture I hold shows a fellow Member from Goran sitting in the Iraqi Parliament. When he comes home, he is attacked with knives by three men because he criticizes power. It is reported that Masrour Barzani's clan has threatened the PUK with violence unless the three men suspected of the attack are released. Those who have committed crimes with many knives against the fellow Member I mentioned are at large now, while journalists are sentenced to six years in prison and imprisoned. And it's not just about them. In the picture I am showing, there are 27 others who have not been brought to justice. If we in Sweden want to help build a society in which the principles of the rule of law, free speech and democracy are respected, we must also make a very strong mark. We're not falling for this. They cannot, with the help of the Swedish good will, build a system where it is worse than with other regimes. Even in dictatorships there are laws. Kurdistan uses the same law that Saddam used when killing and persecuting Kurds. You've only changed the number of the paragraph from 156 to 1, 20 or something else-- I don't know exactly what it is, but it's in accordance with one of these paragraphs that you imprison people. I am absolutely in favour of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government providing assistance and support to combat Daish, for example, and to combat corruption. However, when you come up with criticism, you must also protect the rights of journalists, women's rights activists and human rights activists who are fighting. There are now many members of civil society in the gallery, and their organisation has been classified as disloyal and accused of espionage. This is serious.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-37	I would like to remind the honourable Member that we do not use props in any form in Parliament, not even pictures– that is the spoken word that applies.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-38	Madam President, I would like Iraqi society, including the Kurdish region, faces major challenges to bring about stability and continued democratisation after many years of conflict. The construction of an Iraqi rule of law is an important part of the process of achieving long-term and sustainable peace in the country. This also applies to the Kurdish region. In 2020, journalists, human rights defenders and demonstrators who criticised and questioned the actions of Kurdish public institutions were at risk of threats, harassment and arbitrary arrests and detentions. The multiannual prison sentences against five journalists and activists are therefore deeply worrying. Concern is compounded by the fact that these people, arrested and prosecuted in October for espionage and destabilising national security, according to Amnesty International, among others, have witnessed torture and other forms of ill-treatment. Against this background, Sweden's Human Rights Ambassador expressed our deep concern about the prison sentences imposed and underlined the importance of respect for human rights, including freedom of expression and the free and independent media. We are continuing our dialogue with Iraqi representatives on these cases but also on fundamental democratic values. Sweden is constantly pushing for priority to be given to human rights and democracy within the framework of the EU's engagement in Iraq. The EU is constantly working to strengthen its cooperation with Iraq. In a recent speech by the UN Human Rights Council, the EU called on the Iraqi Government to investigate alleged threats, arbitrary arrests, the abduction and murder of civil rights activists, journalists and human rights defenders. In particular, the speech highlighted the recently imposed multi-annual prison sentences in the Kurdish region. As elsewhere in the world, Sweden in Iraq is engaged in dialogue with journalists, activists, human rights defenders and other civil society groups. Testimonies from the events of the past few months show a continued negative trend. The protection and promotion of democracy, human rights and the rule of law is a high priority for the Swedish Government. That is why I and my staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in our talks with representatives of the Kurdish regional government, have repeatedly highlighted, and will continue to highlight, our concerns about the human rights situation and the development of democracy, including the issue of threats and repressions against activists and journalists.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-45	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the mark. It's very good. Sweden, unlike many other European countries, has been active and is active in protecting human rights, media freedom and women's rights. Then you must mark against warlords and clan leaders in these areas, whether they are Arab, Turkish, Kurdish or Iranian. It is simply necessary to do so while having dialogue with them and, for example, supporting the Kurds in Iraq. I very much hope that the Foreign Minister is now explicitly saying in the speaker's chair that these journalists and human rights activists must be released. It's important. There's no evidence and no judgment. The judgment has been read from a pulpit in the military court for Barzani, and no lawyers have been given the opportunity to say anything. They haven't even been able to meet their clients. They are also very worried as lawyers. What will happen when, for example, they defend? Now we have fellow Members there who are being attacked on the open street. What happens to others? It's a dangerous development. We must also mark by calling for the release of all journalists, and Sherwani Sherwan must be allowed to come home to her young children. They must receive redress for the torture and violence they have suffered, the six months they have been in prison and also the humiliations they have been subjected to. I want us in Sweden to be very clear and to do just as many human rights organisations have done. It's very important to make a statement. Unfortunately, we will come back to this issue.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-49	Madam President, I would like Like Amineh Kakabaveh, the government is very concerned and serious about the arrest of Sherwani Sherwan and his fellow journalists in Iraqi Kurdistan and about the violence against journalists and human rights defenders now taking place in Iraq and in the Kurdish region. Since the last wave of protests in Iraq in autumn 2019, we have seen worrying developments in respect for human rights in Iraq, including in the Kurdish region. Sweden has reacted both bilaterally and through the EU against violence against demonstrators, including attacks against human rights defenders and journalists. We have stressed the importance of respecting and respecting human rights. It includes freedom of expression, association, negotiation and media freedom, but also the responsibility of those who have been guilty of violence. Respect for the equal rights of all sections of the population is a key issue for the future of Iraq. In bilateral contacts with Iraq, Sweden repeatedly stresses the importance of political and economic reforms aimed at equal treatment of all Iraqi citizens. We will continue to work towards an inclusive reform process and national reconciliation. I would like to conclude by thanking Amineh Kakabaverh for raising this issue to an important debate in the Swedish Parliament.
i-3BJeMWVy2XXLQzezVbEWgw	Madam President, I would like In his interpellation, Pål Jonson has asked questions related to Michael Rawlinson's service in the EULEX civilian crisis management operation in Kosovo. Pål Jonson has asked me how I look at the allegations against Rawlinson and what the government did for him during his time under house arrest, why the government did not demand to read and to take part of the investigation by the EEAS regarding Meucci and Ceccarellis acted, why the government did not prevent Meucci from obtaining extended appointment as head of EULEX, if Ceccarellis's appointment as senior manager at Eppo affects my view of Swedish access to Eppo and if I am willing to work for an investigation of the circumstances surrounding the Rawlinson case in order that similar situations should not arise again. Me and Minister Damberg have previously responded to Pål Jonson in connection with questions 2019/ 20:976, False accusations against Michael Rawlinson, and 2020/ 21:822, Appointment of European Prosecutors. Let me emphasise that the government is taking questions about Swedish expatriate personnel very seriously. In the specific case of Rawlinson, the government called for an independent investigation of the case to be set up. This was a strong and very clear diplomatic action. The Government received a response to its request, and an investigation was launched by the European External Action Service (EEAS), which also covered the operation of the Operation Commander. As a sending state, Sweden was then informed of the main conclusion of the investigation – that no criticism could be levelled at the Swedish envoy. The government worked actively to ensure that the Swedish envoy would receive a written redress and a letter of recommendation from the EU, which was also the case. The appointment of the Head of Operations was not renewed any more after the internal investigation was carried out, but the EU chose to appoint a new Head of Mission. It was in accordance with the messages that Sweden had delivered. During the time that Rawlinson was suspended from his post in Kosovo as a result of the operation of the Operation Commander, as was the case thereafter, the government acted through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as through our EU representation in Brussels and our Embassy in Pristina in support of him. In 2016, Sweden initiated – and was supported – the development of a new regulatory framework for disciplinary matters in EU civilian crisis management operations. Sweden is now the driving force in calling for a review of the regulatory framework with a view to further promoting the working environment in civil operations. The government continues its legislative work in order to be able to connect Sweden to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Eppo. Eppo cooperation will play an important role in investigating and prosecuting fraud with EU funds, and the issue needs to be seen in a broader context than the appointment of an individual prosecutor from another Member State in a process in which we have not been involved. Finally, the circumstances of the EULEX operation in 2014 – 2015 have been independently investigated by the agency ultimately responsible for the operation, the European External Action Service (EEAS) and the EEAS. Sweden contributed to this and has consistently acted in support of the Swedish envoy. Sweden has subsequently, and in the light of what has happened, promoted – and brought about – a new regulatory framework for disciplinary matters in the EU's civilian crisis management operations, which we are now working for a review of. The rule of law refers to exactly what Mr Jonson asked for: that a similar situation should not arise again.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-61	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the answer to my interpellation! Most of the events we will be discussing today took place over five years ago, both in Kosovo and in Brussels. However, the reason why we need to discuss them today in this House is that new tasks are constantly emerging. What happens is that we get new testimony about what happened under EULEX. We also know that hard-working digging journalists are regularly working on the issue, which I very much welcome. So there are a number of people, including Michael Rawlinson, whom I think deserves attention. I really want to highlight their names, because they have made important contributions for Sweden. We simply need to get to the bottom of what happened in EULEX in the period from 2014 to 2016. Madam President, I would like Let me first give a brief background to the case itself. Michael Rawlinson, who died in July 2018, was a very experienced Swedish intelligence officer. He had a background at Kustjägarskolan and Parachutjägarskolan, and he had served in various rounds in Kosovo. During the time he was head of the EULEX Criminal Intelligence Office, he also conducted a very sensitive investigation into two accused Italian judges who were also associated with EULEX. But when Italian Gabriel Meucci took office as head of EULEX, all of this was thrown all over the place. Meucci then said that now the witch hunt on Italians was over, and he wanted all internal investigations against Italians and other citizens to be closed. This, of course, is most remarkable. It is also something that affects Sweden, for at least three people who were associated with the anti-corruption investigation were Swedes, who carried out a very important work there. What then happened was that Michael Rawlinson was taken out of service in March 2015 and placed under house arrest after completely groundless accusations from Meucci. Rawlinson was also flown back to Sweden on 7 April, when, in unclear circumstances, he suddenly became seriously ill with killer bacteria. I know that, on 19 June, the Swedish Government marked the case and said that it will not extend the mandate of Mr Meuccis unless an investigation is set up into how EULEX had acted in this. Three days ago, Meucci and Ceccarelli decided to open Michael Rawlinson's safe. So it is a great scandal that is happening. It is totally unacceptable to open a Swedish intelligence officer's safe deposit box. First, Michael Rawlinson was thereby burned as an intelligence officer in the Balkans, and secondly puts this other people's lives in danger. I'm sure he had a lot of security sensitive information in the safe. Madam President, I would like I have no need to in any way distrust the intentions of the government or want to get to the bottom of this either when it comes to corruption or to protecting seconded personnel. But I have a responsibility as part of the opposition to review the actions of the government. I would therefore like to ask the Foreign Minister two questions. First of all, why did the government simply not say no to extending Mr Meuccis's mandate? After all, Mr Meucci chose not to attack corruption, which was obviously a major problem within EULEX, but he attacked those who were actually working against corruption. This affected obvious Swedish interests because several Swedes were involved in this. Now, however, the government chose a different path; instead, it chose to demand that Meuccis's role be investigated. The problem with that was that you were not allowed to read the investigation that you had ordered. Instead, it was read out. Nor was the investigation circulated to the other EU Member States. Why did the government bow to the requirement not to read the investigation and not to let the other EU Member States read it?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-71	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that anyone who has been involved can agree that this matter is incredibly serious and deeply unfortunate. This applies not only to the tragedy of the premature death of Michael Rawlinson, but also to the actions of the then operation of EULEX KOSOVO which undermined the reputation of EULEX KOSOVO. It is in Sweden's interest to contribute to strengthening the EU's credibility as a security policy actor and the Union's crisis management capability. We are therefore taking an active role in the reviews of the efforts, both in terms of tasks and implementation. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has heard the report mentioned by Pål Jonson and its main conclusions on Rawlinson. No criticism could be levelled at him. I cannot answer exactly how this happened because it was more than five years ago, but I am sure that the report also covered other, fully internal aspects of the European External Action Service. The central point for Sweden was whether or not Rawlinson could be criticised, which was not the case. The work environment of the interventions is, of course, closely linked to the reviews and reports made. This is why the government is constantly stressing the importance of EU action taking into account issues related to human resources policy within the operations and externally. As part of this, the government is working to ensure that the EU's efforts have separate advisory functions for human rights and gender equality. Furthermore, Sweden has made clear that the EU Code of Conduct should cover both equal work environment and prevention of abuse and harassment. There were therefore several reasons why the government acted forcefully in support of Rawlinson. In contact with the management of the EU External Action Service, the government underlined that the management of Rawlinson was unacceptable. We expressed great concern about how the management of EULEX worked. As a result of these contacts, we had an independent investigation. As a result of the investigation, the then Operation Commander was not given an extension of his mandate. We worked for Rawlinson to get a written redress and a letter of recommendation from the EU External Action Service, and this happened. The government's action also produced results on a more comprehensive level, with the establishment of a framework for disciplinary matters in all EU civilian crisis management operations. We are now working on a review of this regulatory framework to further promote the work environment within the efforts. We had all wished that Michael Rawlinson had gained practical use of the restoration and the letter of recommendation and that he had been allowed to continue his, as I understand it, very professional and appreciated work. I deeply regret that this was not the case.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-79	Madam President, I would like Let me add that I know that there are a number of good diplomats who have worked very hard on this issue. These are diplomats for whom I have deep respect. I know the government has a part to play in that, too. But there are two things I still don't come from. One is why we were not allowed to read a report that we had ordered ourselves. It is reasonable for us to be able to read the whole report, and it is incomprehensible to me that we did not get it. I think that a little undermines the work of the European Union in getting redress and clarity on what has really happened on this issue, and that is in itself serious. Let me return to the broader question of why Michael Rawlinson's case and what happened in EULEX are, in principle, very important. It is quite clear that he paid an extremely high price for his personal commitment to corruption within EULEX. He simply challenged strong political forces and paid an enormous political price. For that he deserves both attention and honor. If a foreign player attacks a Swedish intelligence officer, regardless of whether the officer is seconded and works under an EU flag or works under a Swedish flag, Sweden's response must always be tough at such times. It is totally unacceptable to break up a Swedish intelligence officer's safe deposit box. It puts people's lives in enormous danger. That is why there must always be a very strong diplomatic signal, because otherwise this will happen again. In addition – and I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I fully agree – it is always extremely important to tackle corruption. Corruption is tearing up societies and creating enormous injustices. Kosovo, according to Transparency International, is the second most corrupt country in Europe after Russia, and, unfortunately, recent developments have gone in the wrong direction. When it is discovered that there are well-founded allegations of corruption within EULEX, the mission in place to build up the rule of law and combat corruption, and that there are therefore actors who fatten corruption, it must be taken very seriously. This is extremely serious. If something like this is discovered, it is also important what response it will be within the EU and among its Member States. I note that the enthusiasm for investigating this issue has been limited, both within the EU institutions and among important Member States. That is also something you need to attack. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his reply that the circumstances of the E ulex operation have been independently investigated by the authority responsible for the operation. That, of course, is quite correct; it is the EEAS itself that has investigated. The problem is that the EEAS was part of the problem, as I understood it. These things were not taken seriously. There would have been an independent investigation outside the EU External Action Service. Such an investigation would have had a much greater degree of legitimacy. Nor do I see any significant degree of follow-up and accountability in this regard. I note that Meucci was extended until June 2016; then he quit the operation. I can also note that Ceccarelli, who also received criticism in the investigation, has moved on to a very high and central position within Eppo, which will thus work to combat corruption within the EU. I find that remarkable in itself. Nevertheless, I must ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what signals she sees it sending to the public when such things can continue over time within the European Union. Both Ann Linde and I are very much in favour of strong European cooperation.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-88	Madam President, I would like I really must stress that I have no other view of this event and of how unacceptable this is than the interpellier has. We take questions about the treatment of Swedish expatriate personnel very seriously. These issues concern individuals who are seconded or otherwise involved via Swedish authorities in operations led by the EU, the OSSE and the UN. Within the framework of the EU's common foreign and security policy, efforts are being made to preserve peace, prevent conflict and strengthen international security. Of course, it is extremely important that things like this do not happen, because then confidence in the efforts will be undermined. At present, the EU has 11 civilian and six military operations. We attach great importance to health and safety at work in these efforts. It is simply the EU's mission, the EU chain of command and the EU acquis that must apply to everyone, regardless of their nationality. We also follow things up directly with our posted authorities if we hear anything, whether it's in Stockholm or somewhere else in the world. Through contacts at all levels, the Government Office is better able to adequately follow up any signals that something is not right. We received such signals about the EULEX operation in Kosovo in 2014-2015. Based on these signals, the government acted directly and resolutely. A number of measures were taken, on the one hand, specifically concerning Michael Rawlinson and, on the other hand, addressing health and safety at work more generally in the EU's civilian efforts, precisely so that what Pål Jonson is talking about does not happen: a loss of confidence. Since then, EULEX has undergone major and significant changes. The mandate has been changed and the work within the operation has been tightened up. The current Operation Manager Lars-Gunnar-Gunnar Wigemark and his predecessor have actively worked on the organisational culture of the operation. As far as Danilo Ceccarelli and his role in Eppo are concerned, Sweden is not yet in Eppo. So we do not have the right to vote in matters relating to Eppo, nor is there a Swedish prosecutor in the College. Sweden has therefore not been able to be involved in the appointment of Danilo Ceccarelli. The Deputy European Chief Prosecutor, which is the title he holds, is appointed by the EPPO College from among its members. It is a European Public Prosecutor from each Member State who participates and, because we are not involved, we have not been able to participate in this process.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-94	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this, which I think is an urgent debate. I have no doubt that there has been progress in EULEX. I even know it has. I think that is basically a good thing. However, I do not think that the problems that existed between 2011 and 2016 have been taken seriously enough. There has not been enough responsibility from the people concerned, and I find this deeply regrettable and distressing. As I said at the outset, knowledge of what has happened through the investigative journalists is now rising and people who have been linked to EULEX are simply telling us what has happened. It creates a new state of knowledge that I really think we should take on board. I am curious if the Foreign Minister himself has taken note of the reports that have been available in Svenska Dagbladet and in various podcasts. In fact, it is rather sad reading and listening, if you care about the EU's crisis management capability. We must get to the bottom of this. Personally, I would like to see two things. To begin with, I think that the issue needs to be investigated in Sweden. There are a number of circumstances surrounding this case that we have much to learn from. These include Michael Rawlinson's situation when he returned to Sweden, which was unsatisfactory in some respects. I am content to say so, but we work regularly both from Parliament and from the government to evaluate the international missions. I think this would deserve a special investigation into the lessons learned so that it does not happen again. The second is that I would like to appeal to the government to raise this issue in the European circle and monitor it closely. Basically, this is all about restoring both the EU's honour and the EU's confidence in carrying out these peace-promoting efforts, which are very important for security and stability in Europe's neighbourhood.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-100	Madam President, I would like I can assure Pål Jonson that I have read a lot about Michael Rawlinson's tragic case and everything that happened afterwards. As Pål Jonson may know, I was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice just in these years. Let me be clear: the government takes the issues of the treatment of expatriated staff and possible irregularities in EU missions very seriously. That is why we acted so strongly both for the restoration of Michael Rawlinson and for action at European level so that such things will not happen again. As I have explained, as a result of the government's pressure, an investigation of the matter and of the actions of the then Operation Commander was set up. The main conclusion of the investigation was clear: No criticism could be levelled at Michael Rawlinson. Thereafter, this very restoration and this letter of recommendation was issued to Rawlinson. And as a result of Sweden's pressure and the investigation that followed, an extension of the operation commander's assignment was also hindered. This is very powerful, and it is a very clear action. As has been mentioned before, the government has also acted in order for us to do everything we can not to repeat it. At the initiative of Sweden, a new regulatory framework for disciplinary matters has been established in EU civilian crisis management operations. The Swedish commitment to the EU's efforts remains long-term and rests, among other things, on important and appreciated contributions made by individual Swedes, as did Michael Rawlinson in his day. Thank you for the debate, Pål Jonson!
i-e9d2d4b537265833-105	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me what I intend to do to graze the maintenance debt on our roads and raise the standards on the roads to match future increased transport needs. I replied only on 17 February to a question from Sofia Westergren concerning the government's efforts on the road network. In my response, I outlined the efforts made by the government in terms of road maintenance and the importance of these in order to create the conditions for a high level of standards and accessibility. I am therefore not repeating this again today. After many years of underinvestment, I can see that the government has now increased the framework for road maintenance. Special efforts have also been made, which have been directed towards rural roads where needs are high and roads are often the main alternative for transport. For the government, it is important to ensure good accessibility throughout Sweden. It should be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country. The Government has started work on developing a new national plan for the development of the transport infrastructure and intends to present an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag in spring 2021. Following the parliamentary decision on the financial framework, work on the so-called action plan continues. It identifies the actions to be prioritised in the national plan. Decisions on a new national plan are planned for 2022.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-109	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Eneroth very much for his reply. The last year has demonstrated the importance of a strong society that can be trusted. If the whole country is to live, the roads must work, but unfortunately the reality shows something else. The maintenance debt grows like a snowball. It takes 2 billion extra a year just to stop the decay. If we're going to pay off the maintenance debt, it'll cost 20 billion, and that's a conservative calculation. If we don't stop the decay, a third of the roads will be derelict. And then, Madam President, the costs go up to more than twice as much to get things right. The Finnish Transport Agency spends about 1 billion annually on supporting measures. But in 2021 – 2025 this money will be used for other purposes, such as the reinforcement of bridges, and not used for the maintenance of the roads themselves. I, a former rider and truck driver, have seen how the road environment has become increasingly difficult to access for larger vehicles. In the run-up to the debate, I have spoken to old colleagues in the industry who have testified that things have become worse. The Long-term effects of underfunded road maintenance confirm this picture. Madam President, I would like The depth of track in the road is increasing. With ever narrower roads, the vehicles drive in exactly the same place. A certain surface is given a lot of load while the rest of the surface is not loaded. With wider roads the driving becomes softer and can be more adapted to other traffic, and the vehicles load the roadway in a more gentle way. The depth of track has increased by 100 percent during the minister's time in power. The tracks in the roadway also create problems for winter road maintenance and cause water bodies. Financial cooking done with bitumen and gravel creates great irritation as it causes both stone shoots on windscreens and sheet metal damage. The sustainability of the repair is also very poor. On the west coast, from which I come, professional drivers bear witness to the poor oil gravel, which is also laid on motorways. The injuries that are being fixed are already back after a couple of weeks. It can't even be called provisional with such short shelf life. Madam President, I would like I would like to give the Minister for Infrastructure the opportunity to tell him how he sees the depth of track increasing by 100% during his time in power.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-118	Madam President, I would like I thank you for a very important interpellation. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure must be the last person in Sweden to have not discovered the lousy road network. It is clear that it is serious when it is probably a party in a government made up of two parties that have kidnapped such an important issue. The consequences have just been told by my colleague Sofia. The roads are getting worse and worse. And, Madam President, the worst roads in Sweden are in Gävleborg. Worst roads in Sweden is in Gävleborg. It's an important county. It's a thoroughfare for the E4. It is a forest county, and it is a county with long distances. It has now gone so far, Madam President, that it is even written in Hudiksvalls Tidning. I understand that the Government is completely uninterested in media north of Dalälven. But he or some colleague would have been able to read this: That's what it says today. On helhalsingland.se it says: a number of traffic policemen in Hälsingland step forward and join the critics. "We are quite good at calling and getting in touch with the management centre, so we and our opinions are probably known in operations. That's what one of the traffic police says. He goes on to say: The Finnish Transport Agency says that they are seeing an ongoing breakdown of the road network and it is escalating. This means that when the road gets tracks like this it is really hard to get rid of the ice, because the plow is straight. This is what he says when they have traffic control on the E4. It is precisely this way, the lifeblood, as one of the police calls it, they are most critical of. And then the journalist asks, "Why are you critical?" The answer is: It's a bit like there's a surprise every time there's snow. It takes too long to catch snow on these main stretches. Often you have time to clear e.g. E4, but you don't have time to take the diversions. That's what traffic police say according to helhalsingland.se today. He continues: "The Finnish Transport Agency has for many years received too little money and that is what we notice. This is really a political issue, so it should not fight back against officials or those who are driving and working with this. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like That's the reality. It is the reality described at helhalsingland.se today. It is not the Minister of any SSU Congress who stands and talks about what you should have done or what you should have done. This is reality. This is the reality for motorists in Sweden. This is the reality for professional drivers. It goes so far, Madam President, that the traffic police are speaking in Hudiksvalls Tidning and more or less appealing for help. That cannot continue, Madam President. Even road maintenance wasn't done. I've had an interpellation debate with the minister about that. The next day, the Finnish Transport Administration told us in our local newspapers that the money is not even enough to maintain what we have. There's not even enough money to entertain what we have. That means, Madam President, that every day the road network in Sweden deteriorates. It's serious for the professional drivers. It's serious for entrepreneurship. How can you run a company in Ljusdal when goods will be transported down to Mjölby during the night and be there just in time, when the road is barely navigable because in a winter country that Sweden is snow and cold? Madam President, I would like It is quite normal that it is snow and cold in Sweden. I've called myself when I left 83, which was lightning a Saturday afternoon a couple of weeks ago. It was lightning! No wonder accidents happen in Sweden. I would like to know how the Minister for Infrastructure in the Swedish Government sees the traffic police going out and appealing in Hudiksvall's newspaper that things need to get better.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-135	Madam President, I would like It is time once again to debate the poor maintenance of the country's roads. Lars Beckman mentioned much of what is happening in Gävleborg, but we also have bad roads in Jämtland, Västerbotten, Skaraborg and Småland. It doesn't matter where you are in the country – the road network is very worn out. You should be able to live and live in the whole country. That is also stated in the answer given by the Minister to Sofia Westergren in this debate. It says about rural roads where the needs are great and the roads are often the main alternative for transport. If the forest industry is to live and work, you have to get the wood out of the forest. But how do you do it when the roads don't carry? How, then, will one of the country's most important industries survive? I know that the government is turning to lift up transport by rail, and so do we. However, the truck is needed, either at the beginning of a transport or at the end. If the railway is to be able to carry more goods, it also requires that the trucks arrive. In today's Profs you can read that three out of four Swedes want to see more money for road maintenance. It's a huge understatement to the government's way of doing road maintenance. It also says that eight out of ten transports take place on the road and that if the whole of Sweden is to be able to live, there is a need for navigable roads throughout the country. The situation is really bad in parts of the country, the road network creaks in the joints. ..................................................... We have discussed the provisional repairs before, and Sofia Westergren also referred to them earlier in the debate. You ride with a so-called trunk on these cars and you spray out some oil. That's how you put gravel on it, and that's how the cars run. These are provisional repairs that do not even last the week on hard roads. I brought it up in the last debate, and I am doing it again: the E20, an artery through the country, is in part so bad that there are big holes in it. I was up and driving at Mariestad and had to turn aside for a hole in the road. Then we are talking about a European road that supplies large parts of the country's transport down to Scandinavia's largest port. This is a strong understatement to the government's way of managing road maintenance. It takes at least 2 billion extra each year to stop continued decay. If we do not spend these 2 billion on roads, how are we going to cope with industrial activity, food production and other things around the country? It is this business that supports large parts of the Swedish economy. The government must take decisive action to ensure that roads have a reasonable standard. I am convinced that in this debate the Minister will say as he has said before, namely that the government is investing more than previous governments have done. This may be the case, but it is not good enough given the way it looks out on the country's roads.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-143	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren, for the interpellation! It is important, because the status of Swedish roads is important for road safety. If we start there, we will nevertheless note that we have had a successful development. There are fewer injured and dead in traffic than ever. Based on the zero vision, we in Sweden have managed to design road safety with good standards on the roads and with central railing to avoid frontal collisions. After all, I come from the automotive industry, and there we are also seeing developments with increasingly safer vehicles. We can therefore welcome the development of increased road safety. As for what Thomas Morell said in his comment, that is to say, more resources are being spent than ever on road maintenance now, that is the difference. I know that Lars Beckman was in Parliament from 2010 to 2014. Then he might have argued for more money for roads. The Moderates have not started to spend money on the roads until in opposition after 2014, in the budget after the budget. In a government position, the Moderates chose to prioritise other things than investments in Swedish infrastructure, such as tax cuts for wealthy people, privatisations and system changes. It failed to invest both in the Swedish rail system and in the roads. Now the Finnish Transport Administration has more money than ever for road maintenance – 164 billion. This was taken into account in the 2018 National Plan. Since then, in almost every budget, we have returned with additional efforts, most recently with 11⁄2 billion in investment in road maintenance, earmarked for roads in rural areas. I know the needs are even greater. There's no doubt about it. After years of underinvestment, where not least a moderate-led government failed to invest in infrastructure, roads and railways, we have had to recover and have been able to make great efforts to restore the quality of the Swedish infrastructure, first in the national plan 2018 with SEK 100 billion more. I do not rule out that the next national plan will contain even more resources. Now we are a stage where we have listened to Trafikverket's focus data that has been submitted to the government. We have had hearings, and there both the Finnish Transport Agency and representatives of regions and industry say that more money is needed for road maintenance and railway maintenance as well as for important investments in not least rail but also other infrastructure. We are now preparing this for future infrastructure proposals and eventually for the national plan. For those who follow the debate and do not know what infrastructure planning is like, it is therefore every four years that the framework and the long-term conditions are set. That's the order. The last time it happened was the first time a Social Democratic-led government had the opportunity to do so. After years of underinvestment when Lars Beckman and his party colleagues sat in Parliament and down-priorityd the infrastructure, we could then make a proper investment and spend SEK 100 billion more on infrastructure and take the step to improve quality and also meet the climate change. It will be interesting to hear how the Moderates, who now have more and more representatives who are climate-deniers, will be able to both ensure that we have good resources for road maintenance and cope with the necessary change needed to electrify the road network and invest more in rail and climate-proof shipping. There we have clear orientations for Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. I know that not all Moderates share that view. For us, however, the quality of the roads, the quality of the railways and infrastructure investments are absolutely necessary to ensure jobs and accessibility in Sweden but also the climate.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-153	Madam President, I would like Better standards are needed on our roads. I would first like to say that when the Alliance was in power, tax cuts were made on labour, which meant that more were included in the work line. It gave more money to the state to make well-being out of. I would like to confirm what Minister Eneroth said, that two-plus-one routes have had a good development in accident statistics. However, they are too narrow, which means that there is a point load that causes track formation. Roads are a major part of the working environment of professional drivers. Narrower roads, smaller roundabouts and oil gravel make it increasingly difficult for trucks to deliver to urban areas. Add driving and rest time rules in combination with road work and rushing traffic that makes it difficult to plan the working day. For the drivers' families, there will be waiting and uncertainty about when Dad or Mom has finished working or whether it will be home only the next day. To always be prepared that there can be an overnight stay in the car is the driver's everyday life. This winter, poor winter road maintenance has made it even more difficult to plan the working day. Madam President, I would like It is time to take the work and working environment of drivers seriously. The struggle for costs and poor road maintenance affects the working environment of professional drivers. A number of municipalities in Dalsland recently demanded measures for the substandard roads in the countryside by letter to the Västra Götaland region. National road 98 in Norrbotten and national road 90 in Västerbotten are the worst national roads, closely followed by road 99 in Norrbotten, according to a survey. In Gothenburg, an extremely large number of road constructions are taking place, which has a negative impact on traffic. One road that has been bad for many years is Exportgatan on Hisingen. Truck drivers testify to several misdosed curves in Gothenburg. One example is the one at the Klareberg exit on E6. In 2020, the Finnish Transport Agency decided to reduce the speed of 121 km of roads from 90 kilometres to 80 kilometres instead of necessary maintenance. This was considered necessary for safety reasons because the standard on the roads was too poor. Not adapting and maintaining what you once built is a very bad deal. The Swedish Transport Agency's forecast is that freight transport is expected to increase by 50 per cent and passenger transport by 30 per cent. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure whether he thinks it is reasonable to reduce the speed of our roads rather than invest and strengthen the roads so that the speeds can instead be maintained or even increased in order for the whole of Sweden to live.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-161	Madam President, I would like It is just as Sofia Westergren says, namely that during the time of the alliance government more people came into work and there were more resources for welfare. Madam President, I would like It must be a very ungrateful task for a Social Democratic Minister for Infrastructure to stand here and try to explain the severely deteriorating road network in Sweden. Anyone who sees this debate, anyone who has the slightest insight into Swedish politics, knows, of course, that it is the Green Party that is blocking the issue. We know that the Green Party hates mobility, and we know that the Green Party has no MPs north of Dalälven. And there is, of course, an explanation for that. No sensible person north of Dalälven votes for a party that so actively impairs living conditions. But what is surprising is that the Social Democrats allow this. The Social Democrats have previously stood up for the forest counties and for the whole of Sweden, but nowadays they allow a small three percent party to control the entire infrastructure development in Sweden with devastating results. Just like someone else said here, the roads are bad all over Sweden, but they are the worst in Gävleborg. Even the traffic police go out in Hudiksvall's newspaper All of Hälsingland and rage over the fact that it is so bad road safety. It refers to several serious road accidents in Hälsingland due to poor winter road maintenance and poor road maintenance. Then it would be reasonable for the Minister to relate to reality and not give a speech at an SSU congress. This is the Swedish Parliament. We expect more from the Minister and to get a real answer to the question of when road maintenance will be improved.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-165	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas. We are debating the poor road maintenance, the almost non-existent road maintenance, outside the big cities. In Skövde, Västtrafik has closed a bus line. The reason for closing the bus line was that the safety of the driver and passengers could not be guaranteed because the road was so bad. Then the government says we should go more collectively. But when public transport cannot drive because the roads are bad, how can we live and live outside the cities? That's a good question. It is also true, as the Government says, that money is needed for road maintenance. But there is one detail; much more money is needed if we are to maintain the standard on the roads. Investing in a functioning road network is not contrary to the climate, but rather less emissions if the road works. You can't help but look at what's in the papers. In an article it says that there are broken cars coming in – precisely from Gävle, Lars Beckman. In the workshop they look at the bookings; it is a matter of feather breaks on the cars and spider trails that give up on the cars. I, who have been active on the road for many years, realize what a feather break means. It may be a total accident where you fly over in oncoming lanes. If a spider joint gives up, it will be the same effect. It is therefore the day-to-day life of the country's motorists on a road network that is free of charge when it comes to maintenance. This is where the government has to do something.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-169	Madam President, I would like This is interesting. Sofia Westergren and also Lars Beckman confirm exactly what I said earlier, namely that the moderate-led government spent the money on tax cuts. Now it did not lead to more resources in society. It did not lead to more money for roads or infrastructure. You lowered the tax, and there was an increase in unemployment and a deterioration in public finances. It was not a successful economic policy between 2006 and 2014. We had to take over a huge amount of unemployment, poor government finances and drained investments. Instead, if one had chosen to invest in the roads and railways, it would have been a little easier for a new government to take up office in 2014 and strengthen the quality of the roads. Now we had to start at minus after years of underinvestment. Of course, there is reason to improve the standard of roads. That is why we spent SEK 164 billion in the last national plan. That is why we are ensuring an annual increase in appropriations. Last time it was with 1.5 billion earmarked for rural areas. That is why I also believe that, in future infrastructure planning, we will have to inject more resources into infrastructure. It is unclear whether the Moderates will be in favour of this. It is possible to do so in opposition. As usual, the majority always choose tax reductions. I very much appreciate the fact that Sofia Westergren is raising the issue of the conditions for drivers and hauliers. Here is an interesting question. For a long time Swedish hauliers have been wrestling with an unsyst competitive situation, not least from foreign truck traffic. The moderate-led government did nothing about this because it would be free movement, free competition and free market conditions, pressured wages and pressured social conditions. We have seen foreign drivers living in the cabins and cooking out in the parking spaces. We have addressed this and negotiated a mobility package within the EU that says that it is a matter of posting from day one and that Swedish salaries and conditions should apply. We have made sure that it is possible to lock the wheels of the trucks if the rules are not followed. Clarification did not exist before 2014. We have created legislation which states that the person who orders the transport of goods by road operator has an obligation to ensure that it is lawful transport. Now the first judges have fallen. We have introduced fines that allow those who have poor working conditions or do not comply with the rules to pay excessive fees – on the spot. We have also increased the control of professional traffic. Not least, we are now investigating a traffic inspection. This is our way of ensuring that the conditions of competition are fair. But we also have something that could be an improvement. I recently asked the Conservatives' transport policy spokesperson about the view of a road toll, which the party has been strongly opposed to. I think the Moderates still are. Eurovignette is now disappearing, which means that foreign trucks in some countries still pay on Swedish roads. It is being phased out at European level. Now we soon have a system where only Swedish skiers pay on Swedish roads. When they go abroad, in Germany and France and so on, Swedish trucks pay. But when Romanian, Bulgarian or German trucks arrive in Sweden, they pay nothing because, among other things, the Moderates are against a road wear charge. Why is that reasonable? Wouldn't that be a good way to increase revenue, perhaps for road maintenance? Or do you accept poor social conditions because it is more important to keep transport costs down than to find a good way to finance – a way that most other European countries now think is quite reasonable?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-182	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased with Minister Eneroth's commitment to the working environment of professional drivers, which I share with him. It needs to be strengthened and improved. I maintain that the Alliance's tax policy with reduced taxes on labour meant that there were more of us who worked and were included in the work line. In this way, there was more revenue. So there were more people who paid taxes to welfare. This government will now tax vehicles. Minister Eneroth mentioned that new vehicles mean that we have new technology and safer cars on our roads. But tough taxation will give us more used cars bought in from our neighbouring countries. Is it narrower roads and smaller roundabouts that the Minister's road and environmental efforts have gone to? I would like to inform the Minister that this has a further negative impact on the working environment of professional drivers. While unemployment is rising as a result of the pandemic, the need for investment in Swedish infrastructure is rising. My next interpellation debate will be with the Minister's colleague the Minister for Labour. I wonder if Minister Eneroth sees that the two can merge their two problems. The Minister for Infrastructure has a lot of work to do, and the Minister for Labour has a lot of unemployment to solve. I was wondering if you could combine those two things. To include the work line is good for Sweden.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-187	Madam President, I would like I can answer right away, Sofia Westergren : Of course we do. Of course, we see infrastructure investments as an important engine in the Swedish economy. It creates jobs. The previous national plan estimated the Finnish Transport Administration could lead to some 235 000 years' work. This is one of the reasons why it is so important to make infrastructure investments. It can be road maintenance, railway maintenance, investments in Norrbotniabanan or new main tracks. It pushes the economy, but it also makes us actually meet the climate requirements. That was what was so sad during the time when we had a moderate government: they refrained from making investments that could create jobs. It was believed that only reduced taxes would lead to increased employment. That effect did not occur. Fredrik Reinfeldt said that 5 million were going to work. It never reached Fredrik Reinfeldt. We reached that goal with a Social Democratic-led government. Instead, Fredrik Reinfeldt achieved a result with increased unemployment, lower public finances and reduced investment in infrastructure and in society at large. Now we have another system of things. Now, more than ever, we are investing in infrastructure – in the last plan 100 billion more than the alliance government was capable of. I can imagine that the next national plan will contain even more, because the needs are there. Everyone here has accounted for that. After years of underinvestment, we need to invest more, not least in road maintenance, but also in the railways, shipping and cycling in big cities and other urban transformations that will be needed. These are our clear priorities, because we believe that Sweden should become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We also see that infrastructure investment creates new jobs, better competitiveness and better conditions to keep cities and countries together. I'm afraid that's not the Moderates. I am sorry about this. I hope you guys can join the game. Realize that the fossil society is behind us! Be as brave as the Swedish automotive industry, which now produces electric cars instead!
i-e9d2d4b537265833-193	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to take steps to ensure an acceptable standard regarding the maintenance of winter roads. As late as 26 January, Thomas Morell and I met in this House to debate winter road maintenance. The same is true today: the government believes that working winter road maintenance is important for both accessibility and road safety. The Government has therefore ensured that Trafikverket has a clearly identified responsibility for this and the necessary means to implement winter road maintenance of high quality. Trafikverket has developed requirements for what should apply to winter road maintenance on the state roads. Trafikverket procures the implementation of winter road maintenance and has developed new, modern methods and working methods for monitoring. Among other things, GPS is now used in vehicles, which means that the work done can be followed at a detailed level. The Finnish Transport Agency also hires a third party to follow the contractors' work and check that efforts are both started and completed at the right time and with the right quality. It is important to ensure that entrepreneurs meet their commitments. Its own responsibility is also important for accessibility. If the weather conditions are bad, if the snow evicts or subcooled rain freezes on the roads, perhaps you should not go out without placing the vehicle. These are relatively few times of the year, but it is important that everyone takes on their responsibilities. I can thus conclude that Trafikverket has the financial resources required, developed requirements for winter road maintenance standards and procedures and methods to follow up the work of entrepreneurs in a necessary way. This creates the conditions for a working winter road maintenance.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-198	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! When we last met in a debate – it was last Tuesday – it had been a fortress just before. It was a professional driver who had lost his life on a slippery road. A Facebook group started shortly after that accident. On February 6, it was launched. Two days later, the group had over 700 members, and today it has more than 2,300 members. What the professional drivers in the group do is film and show the standard on the roads. There are several movies where you see drivers riding their shoes on the road. The roadway is covered with ice. It's ice skates. As bad as the road maintenance in winter is now, it has never been before. I have the privilege of having been there since the mid-70s. I have been able to see the deterioration, and it has really accelerated in recent years. In the answer, the Government says that these are modern methods for the implementation of winter road maintenance. Yes, it is these meteorological stations that hang in poles a bit here and were out on the road to which the Government refers. As long as the meteorological station in the post doesn't say it's slippery, the cars can't go out. And once you go out, you put on a brine that's way too bad. It melts down, and then it refreezes. Then you have created a slip that is indescribable; you can ride on the shoes on the road. The Government also answers this way: D a responsibility of its own is also important for accessibility. If the weather conditions are bad, if the snow evicts or subcooled rain freezes on the roads, perhaps you should not go out without placing the vehicle. ..................................................... But we can't have such an order in this country, which is supposed to be a modern industrial country, that as soon as it snows, the trucks will stand still? Is the industry supposed to shut down for half the year? Should we stop food transport? What are we going to do with vital transportation to health care when it snows out? Should the police, ambulance and emergency services ignore the alarms until the spring melt? The answer is extremely strange. In a modern country, which we still believe we live in, we cannot have such a system that as soon as it snows and gets a little slip, the infrastructure does not work. Then the drivers who provide our country with important transport and make sure that the industry works and that there is food in the shops and equipment for health care stay because maintenance on the roads is not worth the name. When the drivers are driving, they literally do so with life as a contribution. The driver who was buried last Tuesday was admittedly good. According to the report, which I was informed of, there were no defects in either tyres or vehicles or in the driver's way of driving his vehicle on the road. It was so slippery that the car drifted off the road, and when it went down the slope and landed with the cab to the ground he was squeezed to death. Is that how our infrastructure is supposed to work when it's slippery out there? I would like an answer from the Minister.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-209	Madam President, I would like Sweden has four seasons: summer, autumn, winter and spring. It should be obvious for everyone to relate to this. And, Madam President, Sweden has always had four seasons. It is natural in a country in northern Europe that it is cold and snowy and that there is lightning on certain occasions. Madam President, I would like It has now gone so far, when the Green Party has kidnapped this government, that the Minister for Infrastructure in a response in the Swedish Parliament in 2021 asks the motorists to set the car if it is slippery. This answer is remarkable, yes, astounding. If the weather conditions are bad, if the snow is pouring down or under-cooled rain freezes on the roads, perhaps you should not go out but set the vehicle. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is giving up. It is to completely throw the towel into a winter country like Sweden. So what the Minister says is that the company in Ljusdal should not drive its cabins down to the trucks in Mjölby overnight. Hundreds of jobs are at risk when the Minister for Infrastructure, the Social Democrats and the Green Party throw the towel into such a obvious thing as winter road maintenance in a country like Sweden – a cold country in northern Europe where it is perfectly normal for it to be winter. As Thomas Morell says, is the police going to put the car in the middle of an ongoing murder somewhere? Is the ambulance and emergency services going to stand? You're cancelling the flight service? Or is it about us ordinary motorists, who of course in a winter country that Sweden should be able to transport us from A to B, even when it is winter? Madam President, I would like It is not reasonable for a small party like the Green Party to kidnap such an important thing as road maintenance and winter road maintenance. It is not reasonable for the traffic police to go out in Hudiksvalls Tidning and say: The article in Hudiksvalls Tidning refers to a serious traffic accident that occurred in mid-February. The police say that the car ended up on the roof because it was too bad winter road maintenance. This is the reality in Sweden 2021. We have an infrastructure minister who has thrown in the towel... who has given up. Perhaps it is that one realises that one will never bring the Green Party to make the necessary investments in infrastructure in Sweden and to ensure that we have navigable roads outside Stockholm. Madam President, this statement should be widely distributed to all those who are considering going to vote in the next elections. One cannot be satisfied when the traffic police go out and warn of the consequences of a lack of winter road maintenance. People are not supposed to die in Sweden because the state does not undertake its part of the social contract and ensures that we have navigable roads. Of course, the correct answer is not to ask the car. The correct answer is, of course, that road maintenance should be improved so that we have navigable roads in a winter country like Sweden.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-218	Madam President, I would like Me and Thomas Morell got to know each other long before we became politicians, when we were active in Sweden's Åkeri companies. Since that time, when I was a racer and a truck driver myself, the number of vehicles handling the winter road maintenance has halved in Stenungsund. Because there are only half as many people, it takes twice as long to snow-strip and fight. You often start when the snow stops falling, and the focus is that the roads should be runable in the morning. If there are too few vehicles involved in winter maintenance, this will not be possible, but morning traffic will pack up the snow, making it more difficult to get the road back in order. Madam President, I would like European road 6, E6, through Stenungsund has had recurring problems with black ice, even on weekdays after eight o'clock in the morning. I wonder, like Mr Beckman, whether it is the intention for blue-light personnel to stand on the side of the road because it is so slippery that you cannot continue the journey. Should bluelight personnel during burglary or fire stand by the road and wait for everything to be ready? A colleague told me that during the ongoing process a chip truck had to stand at the edge of the E6 for two hours and wait for the salt car. The working environment for professional drivers is deteriorating. In the past, dry salt was spread, and then it was transferred to binding the salt with liquid. Today, as Mr Morell says, brine is being spread, where the salt content is at a minimum. Entrepreneurs who have been doing winter road maintenance for many years say that they would make roads possible with ploughing and salting. Today, brine is used with less effect to make the cost as low as possible, but safety suffers. Many of the entrepreneurs who did the winter road maintenance in the past have quit, because they don't want to be part of a work that doesn't turn out well. I am grateful that there are people who continue in the snow in spite of the cost-hunting. I am provoked by the Minister's reply that he is truly satisfied with the organisational structure that is now in place. I quote from the Minister's answer: the Finnish Transport Agency procures the implementation of winter road maintenance and has developed new, modern methods and methods of follow-up. Among other things, GPS is now used in vehicles, which means that the work done can be followed at a detailed level. ..................................................... 10 to 15 years ago, someone from a central office called and sent out the contractor to ensure that the roads were in running order. Today the person from the office calls and says that it should be a turn of 4% salt. Madam President, I would like My question to Minister Eneroth is whether the follow-up to whether or not the system works further needs to be developed.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-225	Madam President, I would like Let me first give you a message: the Finnish Transport Agency urges everyone: stay at home if you can! The roads will be slippery. It's blackie. At times when there is blackish weather and difficult weather, Trafikverket urges some to stay away from the roads. For safety's sake, perhaps I should tell you that this is from 2014, that is, at the time when Lars Beckman supported the moderate-led government. I don't know if Lars Beckman was out arguing because it was so terrible that you couldn't even be on the road. However, I must honestly say that I think the level of argument is a little too low. I think everyone knows the Transport Administration's warning. Experienced riders leave their vehicles standing when there's black on the road. There is no fight against it, but at such times you must actually refrain from going. Then the road maintenance vehicles go out and do what they can with salt, brine and other methods to process the roads, so that they can be accessible. But it happens at times – it is not a matter of six months at a time – that one must avoid going on the road. Yet some vehicles have to go on the road. It's about ambulances, police cars and other emergency vehicles. They'll have to do it. I admire the drivers who take that risk. They must have the skill to be able to drive when it is very lame out there. They must be able to do this in order to save lives or carry out important social missions. This is why we never let this be a budget issue in the Swedish Transport Administration's snow control, but we ensure that they always have the resources to call on more skiers, who are now carrying out winter maintenance. There is no limit to the budget – it is important to remember this. Thomas Morell often comes back to the question of whether it was better or worse before. In the 1970s, when Thomas Morell said it was much better, there were 1 307 dead in traffic. In 2019 it was 221. We've got safer traffic now. We have safer roads and safer vehicles. We're working systematically on zero vision. It is a dramatic reduction in the number of people killed and injured in traffic. This must never mean that we are satisfied. Zero vision means that we should constantly improve and increase road safety, have smarter, more modern and perhaps better winter road maintenance opportunities and so on. The automotive industry is working in its way to strengthen and improve vehicles. We work with speed controllers, central railings and other things that make us save lives, because we do that with these efforts. I think it is important to remember that political responsibility is an important part of this. That was one of the reasons why I, the Social Democratic-led government and the Social-Democratic-led government that were pre-election, pushed through the winter tyre requirements. There were no such requirements before. During the moderate-led government, which Lars Beckman hailed, winter tires were not required for heavy vehicles. It could be anti-competitive, and there will be too many costs. I think it is important that we make demands, so that drivers are given reasonable protection, just as we are now making clear demands on the riders in terms of driving and rest time rules and follow-up to this. It is about the working conditions of drivers and their safety on the roads. Don't get me wrong: I think more things need to be done. I want more resources for safe roads and infrastructure and also for increased police surveillance to improve the quality and control of professional traffic. There, the government has processes under way. However, I note that when the Moderates ruled this country – and the Swedish Democrats want to support a moderate government – priority was given, as usual, to tax cuts before infrastructure.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-234	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There's an advantage to being old. You've had a lot of time through life and you've seen the development. The fact that so many died in traffic in the 1970s can be attributed to the fact that the cars lacked ABS brakes, seat belts, airbags and all that can now be found in modern cars. With modern safety equipment in the cars, it is clear that death rates are also falling. I myself did over 300 investigations of fatal accidents while working with the traffic police, so I know what I'm talking about when it comes to vehicle safety. But it is quite typical of the government to try to evade the issue. In this case, it is winter road maintenance here and now that is a concern. Today, there are over 2 000 drivers following this debate, and they would like an answer to the future. The blackie, who has become the new normal, shows up from time to time. But you're not supposed to create slips! From time to time, I tend to gloat a bit and say that there is no one who can create slips as mildly as the Swedish Transport Administration. It spreads brine and melts down the surface. Then it freezes again, and then you've created a worse slip than it was before. No shadow should fall on those who do the job out there, but it is the system that is the problem. The government says it's a modern way to handle the anti-slip. But let me read a few lines that one of the runners writes in the group: This system plays Russian roulette with the safety and life of road users. Slip control shall be carried out where necessary and replaced accordingly. Ultimately, the responsibility should lie with our ruling politicians to ensure that this happens as well. Speculation in road safety should not be allowed. Professionals, who will make sure that our industry works, that we have food to put on the table and that the health care system works, are literally doing their job with life as an input. They can ask the state to do its part in the work and to fight slips for real instead of spreading a brine that makes things worse. That meteorological station hanging from a pole is pretty useless in the fight. In the past we had roadmasters who were out inspecting their area and made sure that it was anti-slip. It was also trusted by people who had local knowledge and knew that just in that bend or at that particular party it freezes harder than on other routes. But if a driver who knows these particular conditions increases the salinity sensor a little today, the Swedish Transport Administration will bumble and note that they have put on a harder one than what has been decided from above. The professional skills are removed from the drivers who are out fighting for slips. Instead, a computer and a camera in a pole will determine how the anti-slip should be done. Then we have created a system that builds slippage on the road instead of removing it. There must be a change here. Since the Government says that there are no budgetary obstacles, I assume that there will be better road maintenance next winter.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-243	Madam President, I would like In SVT Gävleborg's news on 9 December 2012, the heading is the requirement for winter tyres for heavy vehicles. In the news article, the requirement also applies to foreign vehicles, whose lack of winter tires has been the biggest problem, according to MP Lars Beckman (M) from Gävle, who has worked for a long time to get to the law. That's how you develop this. But I understand that the minister and government representatives never take part in media north of Dalälven. Madam President, I would like We are seeing a breakdown in this House today with an abandoned Minister for Infrastructure. I quote from the government's interpellation response: That's just what the man who has his life's nerve south of the Dal River says. This is not what anyone who has ever set foot in Norrbotten, Västerbotten, Jämtland, Västernorrland, Gävleborg or Dalarna says. It is perfectly normal that it is winter, that it is slippery and that it is snowing. It is more abnormal that it does not snow. I got pictures from my mother-in-law in Boden this weekend showing the snow at their cottage in Vänträsk, and there's lots of snow there. If the minister had seen the news from Medelpad, he'd have seen the snow coming down. It must be part of the social contract that Sweden's motorists and entrepreneurs, who pay billions in taxes, can expect navigable roads. That's what the interpellation is about. However, the Minister talks about anything other than if the interpellation applies, namely how we will get accessibility on Sweden's roads.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-249	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister is satisfied with how winter road maintenance works, and the Minister places the responsibility on the drivers to put their vehicles instead of letting go of resources to make the roads work. One such resource could be to look at the forecast and actually salt with dry salt so that it works even if a light rain would fall. In Stenungssund on the west coast we do not have the same amount of snow as north of Dalälven, as colleague Beckman talked about. But we should have the resources not to have blankies and blackies on the E6 road. I see a parallel in reducing the speed from 90 kilometres to 80 kilometres of 121 km instead of investing in strengthening the roads, as we talked about in the last debate. My interpretation is that the Minister for Infrastructure is satisfied and that a lot of money has been used to make roads narrower and less accessible for heavy goods vehicles. Madam President, I would like Winter road is not working. We're either going to slow down or set the vehicles. With government policy, the road network will continue to deteriorate, and it is particularly in rural areas that it is deteriorating.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-254	Madam President, I would like From 1 June 2019, a somewhat amusing date in this context, it is required that all wheels on heavy vehicles should have winter tyres. It was legislation that the Social Democratic-led government pushed through. Before there was no such requirement. Whether it should be brine, dry salt or gravel at different times, I leave with a warm hand to those who research, develop and conduct winter road maintenance to decide in dialogue with Trafikverket so that the most adequate and best method is used. The GPS follow-up has been an important part of ensuring that winter road maintenance is actually carried out and ensuring that taxpayers' money is actually spent in the best way. To those who follow the debate, it is important to say that there are no budgetary restrictions here. Winter looks a little different from year to year, but we budget for there to be resources when there is a lot of snow. This is taken back second year when the weather is better. That is why there will be no budgetary limit. On the other hand, there is steady development in improving winter road maintenance. It is not the Swedish Transport Administration that performs the winter road maintenance, but it procures this service from skiers who then perform it. It is of course important that it is done in the right way, and I have had a couple of round tables and called together Svevia and others in that industry to discuss what more we can do to ensure both the long-term and the quality of winter road maintenance. Road safety is one of the government's most important priorities. Some of the speakers find it strange that I am satisfied. But seriously, the fact that 1 307 people died in traffic in 1970 and now 221 is still a positive development. A few years ago, when we were able to gather delegates from around the world in Sweden and a conference on road safety, Sweden was awarded several times for its road safety work. We are the world leader in this. But much can be done better, not least for the quality of rural roads and for the safety of professional drivers. But it is a shared responsibility. For example, it is a matter of not immediately going out the morning it is black ice and waiting until the snow clearance has been in place. I understand that there is pressure in the transport industry with just-in-time and fast times, and when the bearings now go on rubber wheels you want the transports in place. They used to be in storage. But however transport efficient Sweden is, and it is, it is important to put transport safety first. I am happy when I meet riders who say: We do not drive out at certain moments. But we are also happy the faster snow clearance comes and the more efficient winter road maintenance is. What I wanted to show with the picture from 2014 is that this discussion is not new, but we actually manage to get better and better at getting a road safety that means fewer injured and killed in traffic. I am happy to take note of all the good suggestions that exist regarding whether it should be gravel, brine or salt and what mixture it should be, how to measure slip and what efforts to make. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for making the best efforts in dialogue with road hauliers. That is also the government's objective.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-264	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. If there has been a development in the field of anti-slips, we can probably stand here and argue about for hours, I think. I and the 2 000 drivers who follow this debate take a different view. It's gotten worse over the years. Just as Lars Beckman mentioned, the traffic police say the same thing. I've been talking to a traffic cop, and it's terrible winter roadkeeping on the roads. The roads are basically so bad that the plow and the cutters can't access. Rescue resources become permanent because traffic is stagnant, which puts people's lives at risk. We have had a good development in road fatalities, and we should be very grateful for that. But people still die in Swedish traffic, and every life that goes to waste is a lost life. Let me read what a family member in the group wrote:. To have to tell my children that their Nanna does not exist, that he had been in a truck accident was one of the hardest things I have ever done. She tells the story of his son, who stands in front of the photo with lights on and weeps out how much he misses his Nanna, that he doesn't want Nanna to die and be dead. It hurts my mother's heart to see this. ..................................................... This is everyday life – a completely unnecessary accident that would certainly never have happened if one had not relied so much on that meteorological station that hangs in a post but instead used the knowledge of those who have to manage road maintenance. Instead, the traffic controller says that you can't go out. And if you go out, you spread a blasphemy that only makes it worse. I hope it gets better next year.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-270	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely right that every person who is injured or killed in traffic is one person too many. That's why I'm so proud that we've gone from 1 307 in the 70's to 221. The government is working tirelessly on road safety, and one of my first efforts as a minister was the ban on mobile phones. Earlier it was allowed to talk on your phone while driving; it was not wise. But now it is forbidden, and there will be heavy fines if you talk on the phone. We pushed through winter tyre requirements on all heavy-duty vehicles to ensure road safety. We spend several billion extra resources co-financing and co-financing the centre rails to avoid collisions. This means that sometimes it is 100 kilometres per hour on a 90-way instead of 80 kilometres per hour. All of this is done in order to reduce the number of people injured and killed in traffic. Let's work for it together. Let us also avoid glaring over speed populism, a little higher speeds sometimes or the Swedish Transport Administration's efforts and realize that there are many people in the Swedish Transport Administration, NTF, MHF, civil society and the Swedish Parliament who are deeply committed to reducing the number of dead and injured in traffic. I myself, who come from the automotive industry, are proud of how we in Sweden, with Volvo and Scania, and for that matter with former Saab, work systematically with road safety, also in relation to vehicle construction. It's a legacy we have to manage. I take this with me whether we talk about road maintenance or winter road maintenance and how we design and what resources we put on the infrastructure. This is crucial and for me more important than tax cuts. I note that this is not the case for the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-275	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I will work for reduced or abolished rail track charges. The government has high ambitions for the Swedish railways. After years of underinvestment in Swedish infrastructure, the Government decided in 2018 on a national plan for the transport infrastructure. It is an investment of over SEK 700 billion throughout the country and the largest railway investment in modern times. The plan includes new investments but also a record increase in rail maintenance. The government has also continued to invest in the railways. Through the budget proposal for 2021, SEK 500 million per year has been added during the period 2021 – 2023 to an increased railway maintenance. The level of rail charges is regulated by the Railway Act, which in turn complies with EU law in this area. Railway charges shall be set as a basic principle at the cost incurred as a direct result of train traffic. The Swedish rail charges are among the lowest in Europe, one can see when comparing the charges for average trains in the Member States. In 2020, rail charges amounted to approximately SEK 1.8 billion. Due to reduced traffic during the covid-19 pandemic, revenue from rail charges has decreased compared to 2019.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-278	At the moment, the biggest railway investment is taking place in modern times. The government will continue to work on developing and modernising the Swedish railways.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-279	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. We are both aware that in Sweden we aim to reduce emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030. That is an ambitious and important objective. We need ambitious targets to prevent an escalating and dangerous climate disaster. The transport sector is an area where emissions are very high; about one third of our emissions are in this sector. Transporting more people and goods by rail is a very climate-smart way to transport. However, I am concerned about the situation of the rail sector, particularly in view of the recent pandemic, when we can see that rail passenger transport has been reduced by about 70%. The government has been quick to rescue certain sectors during the pandemic. We can see, for example, that flights have received multibillion dollars of government support. More than SEK 10 billion have been paid out to the aircraft in various investments – to SAS, the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, regional airports, Swedavia and so on. Some initiatives are fully justified, while others may be less motivated. At the same time, we see that the investment in rail is much smaller. A maintenance effort of 700 million has been paid out by the government on account of the covidpandemine. This is welcome, but why should the aviation sector receive more than ten times more in Corona support than in the rail sector? It puzzles me. Madam President, I would like There is a very clear, simple and reasonable way in which we could now save the railway industry in Sweden, namely that we are reducing or totally absolved of track charges for 2020 and that we are then lowering track charges for this year. Railway charges are simply what train operators pay for every kilometre they drive on Swedish rails. Last year, about SEK 1.8 billion was paid, just as the Minister for Infrastructure was. This figure compares with the so-called environmental compensation for promoting rail freight transport, as the Minister mentioned. So how much is that? Yes, it's 400 million kroner. Thus, the railway industry pays almost five times more in rail charges than it receives in the form of environmental compensation. Then let us remember that environmental compensation only goes to the freight sector, not to passenger transport. I note that last year the National Railways made a loss of SEK 1.8 billion. There is an incredible amount of money, and they have received zero crowns in direct support from the government due to the pandemic. Madam President, I would like It is high time that Sweden did as many other European countries do, namely lower or totally absolve the rail infrastructure charges. Several countries have done this in Europe: Austria, Germany, France and Luxembourg, to name but a few. I would like to ask the Minister, because I do not think I have received an answer: does the Minister intend to take the initiative to reduce rail infrastructure charges, at least as long as the pandemic continues? This was not answered by the Minister.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-286	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that I and Jens Holm very much share the same view on rail transport, and I very much appreciate that. We need to continue to develop Swedish railways. It is good to note that, after years of underinvestment, we are still making big investments. It is the biggest railway investment ever, with massive investment in new rail routes but also railway maintenance. It is clear that efforts are needed to ensure that rail traffic flows smoothly. Environmental compensation is an example, but there have also been direct ownership contributions to Green Cargo. Major efforts have also been made with several billions in public transport, a large part of which is by rail. I think it's a little irrelevant to make a comparison with the flight. You should remember that all flights were down. As far as rail transport is concerned, freight traffic has worked relatively well during the pandemic. This has been important, also in order to continue the systematic work of lifting a lot of goods from road to rail. That is one of the reasons why we are now looking at redundancy in infrastructure planning, that is to say that, in addition to the Öresund Bridge and Fehmarn Belt, which is coming, we must ensure that we also have good rail connections from Trelleborg out to the continent, and why not Helsingborg– Helsingör or other important efforts. As far as rail charges are concerned, there is a huge difference. Jens Holm reports how other countries have reduced their track charges. We in the EU have opened up the possibility of doing this as a crisis measure, but then it is countries that have rail charges that are perhaps ten times higher than in Sweden. I would like to recall that we have the third lowest rail charges in Europe, subject to the fact that this is roughly the case. I think it is important to note that there may be other, more precise efforts that in that case need to be made to strengthen the Swedish railways, first and foremost proper railway maintenance investments. There we are pushing for resources, to continue to develop and invest in new rail and to look at environmental compensation, which is important for Green Cargo, Hector Rail and others who are now having a tough time. Although they have succeeded in their activities during the pandemic, it is clear that we want to be able to transfer even more freight traffic by rail in the future. On the other hand, reducing rail charges is a relatively blunt instrument, and it is expensive. I also believe that we must bear in mind that it is regulated rather hard internationally at European level. The starting point for the government is therefore that we continue to ensure that we will have good conditions for Swedish rail transport. We are making further efforts in the budget proposal, and we have done so in the past in the national plan. In view of the infrastructure proposal that we are now preparing and future national planning, I can imagine that these will be further important efforts, not least on the railways. It is, as Jens Holm states, absolutely crucial if we are to reach the climate targets that we continue to develop Swedish railways. It is important in a context where some believe that we can achieve climate goals only through instruments, through reduction obligation or electrification and transport efficiency. These are important efforts. But if we are to reach net zero, we will need to increase the capacity of the Swedish rail system. There, it is we taxpayers, not railway undertakings, who are responsible for all the investments made in the Swedish rail system – for rail maintenance and for investments in new rail. It is, as I said, the biggest investment ever. It is therefore several billion that we are now spending on strengthening the railways.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-292	Madam President, I would like Tomas Eneroth says it's the biggest railway investment ever. Thus he is an echo of his moderate predecessor, Minister of Infrastructure Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd. She said the same thing. That is not surprising, Madam President. We have an economy that is growing, we have a population that is growing and needs are growing. It is no wonder that there will then also be more money for the railways. I welcome that, of course. But that is, in fact, far from enough. I think Tomas Eneroth knows that very well. Just talk to the industry and listen to what they say about the great neglected railway maintenance. There's talk of the maintenance debt. You can also talk about Norrbotniabanan, the new Ostkustbanan up to Härnösand, industrial tracks and construction of high-speed tracks. Everybody wants to know what's going on. Why are these delays? Why is it this underfunding, Tomas Eneroth? On the one hand, I am not saying that rail charges are very much regulated by the European Union. On the other hand, it is just as the Minister for Infrastructure says, that the EU has presented a regulation which is just opening up for reduced or abolished rail charges. Why? Because it's supposed to be a way to save the railway industry during this pandemic. I remind you that SJ made a loss of SEK 1.8 billion. They have not received a crown from the government in direct payments. I would like to ask Tomas Eneroth a question. The support for Green Cargo is very welcome. But is it a corona support? As I understand it when I talk to the department, it's a customary ownership addition. But have you done so precisely because of the pandemic? I would like a concrete answer to that. The Minister also talks about the importance of lifting freight transport from road to rail. Yes, it's incredibly important. But there has actually been no such transfer. If we look at the statistics from Trafikanalys, we see that approximately 73 million tonnes of goods were transported on Swedish railways in 2019. It was a decrease compared to the previous year, despite Tomas Eneroth's good strategy. Why? In fact, I do not think that the commitment and the enormous goodwill of the Minister, which I do not doubt, are enough, but a little more is needed. It takes money, and sometimes concrete legislation is needed for something to happen. I do not think that reducing rail charges is a blunt measure at all. On the contrary, it is a very concrete measure. That's exactly what the industry is screaming for. That is exactly what Europe has opened up to and allows. And that is exactly what several Member States of the European Union are doing, that is, simply making it easier for those who drive trains on the railways to be able to do so in a reasonable way. Madam President, I would like Is it not strange that those who transport goods on our roads do not pay a crown in distance-based taxes or charges? V has been discussing this for a long time – a kilometre tax or a road wear charge. There is also a memorandum and a concrete proposal in the Minister's drawer from 2018. But the Minister does not present it. Instead, it penalises the most climate-smart mode of transport, both for passenger traffic and for freight, namely the train. Why do you do that, Tomas Eneroth?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-299	Madam President, I would like Let me first state, Jens Holm, that my predecessor as Minister of Transport is Anna Johansson, not Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd. Let me then say that, as usual, the Left Party always has more money than everyone else for everything. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to say that I very much appreciate the commitment. I also know that we often meet in a common desire to both make more investment in the railways and, not least, to make more investment in infrastructure in general to cope with the climate change. In the national plan 2018 that we reported there was an increase of 47 percent in railway maintenance. This is a dramatic increase in investment in rail maintenance. It does not pay the railway undertakings and the train operators – SJ, Green Cargo, MTR or other companies – but we taxpayers are the ones who are responsible for this investment to also ensure that we get better functionality in the Swedish rail system. This is an historic increase after years of underinvestment. In the same way it was in 2018 that we announced investments on the railway, not least on Norrbotniabanan where we took the first shovelage to make this important investment. It was also about the South East link and the construction of new main tracks, where we start with Linköping– Järna, Gothenburg– Borås or for that matter Lund – Hässleholm. There have been investments in Getingmidjan, which have been renovated and renovated. There have also been four tracks Stockholm – Uppsala. It is by common means that we are funding an incredible capacity enhancement in the Swedish rail system because it is needed. When I took the millionth train a year and a half ago, I did it to manifest this very thing. There have never been so many trains on the Swedish railway, and we should be proud of that and that more people want to ride trains. In fact, the aviation debate made more people want to ride trains because they want to reduce their carbon footprint. I think that both Jens Holm and I are delighted with this development and Facebook groups that have given good suggestions on how to travel more trains. We encourage it from the government's side with the procurement of night trains both to Åre and, if we succeed, to Europe and the European continent. In addition, more companies also want to send more goods by train. There is now a fantastic development with new alliances. Nevertheless, I am optimistic about the work of the Freight Transport Council and the freight transport strategy in terms of our success in also increasing the quantity of goods and the proportion of goods that go by rail. It's a challenge. This is also shown by Traffic Analysis. Although more goods are being sent systematically, the overall volume of goods is increasing. Not least, e-commerce has meant that the slightly lighter and smaller trucks that drive around the cities are increasing in volume. It's a concern. E-commerce is smart. Not least during the pandemic, it has proved to be absolutely crucial. However, if we are to reduce the carbon footprint and we continue to have large e-commerce, we must ensure that transporters drive sustainably with more electric trucks and that there are increased demands for coordination. We may also have to look at how the volume of transport is increasing and whether that makes sense. I have previously taken the example of some ordering 14 pairs of shoes and sending back 10. It says it's free shipping. But there are no free shipments. There are no free lunches either. This means that the total volume of transport increases. It's not good for the climate. That is why I would like to see climate declarations. We're working on it from the government. As a consumer or client, you should see the climate footprint that your order actually does when it comes to transport costs. To the point: I do not, of course, exclude either rail charges or other instruments. But that is not the first priority, because we have among Europe's lowest rail charges. There are other more effective measures, such as environmental compensation. There we have put forward a proposal of SEK 400 million over five years. It's an important bet.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-307	Madam President, I would like I and the Minister for Infrastructure are making some different assessments of the state of the railway industry. It's quite obvious. The Minister repeats as a mantra that Sweden has among Europe's lowest rail charges. Yes, it may be, but it's kind of hard not to pass Denmark or Germany if you transport goods from Sweden down to the continent – or the Netherlands or Belgium if you are going to France. Many European countries are very close and can charge high charges because they have a lot of traffic no matter what happens. Sweden is a distant country, so we have a completely different situation. Whatever the case, the EU has put forward a concrete proposal. It is legislation that says: please reduce or abolish the ban fees during the pandemic! Many countries do, but the Swedish government does not. I don't understand the logic. Why give ten times more subsidies to aviation than to the railways? I am not saying that aviation cannot need some support, but ten times more creates the wrong proportions. SJ made a loss of SEK 1.8 billion, and they receive SEK 0 in support of the government. Is it saving and protecting the railway industry, Tomas Eneroth? I don't think so. The Minister did not answer my specific question as to what has happened to the proposal on the mileage tax for lorries. If the Minister really wants to move freight transport from road to rail, why not make it a little more expensive to transport by road? Then you can use that money to invest in the railways. Madam President, I would like The easiest and most concrete way to save the railway industry is to ensure that more people travel by train after the pandemic and that we can transport more goods on our railways. The most climate-smart way to do that is to reduce track charges. When will we see such a proposal from the government?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-312	Madam President, I would like I'm not sure it's the smartest way. That's why I hesitate. I believe that there are more effective efforts to strengthen the railways, whether we are talking about maintenance or massive investments to increase capacity. This is probably so important, but it is also, of course, a question of directly strengthening freight transport and rail freight, for example, with environmental compensation. I still think the comparison is limping. It is important to remember that we have given over 5 billion in earmarked state subsidies only to public transport, and a very large part is actually rail. And with all due respect, SJ is a state-owned company, where the state owns and, of course, can handle any losses should this be the case. I note that, in general, other State operators operate on the Swedish rail network, whether owned by the Chinese State or by other States. I think Jens Holm is onto something with regard to the costs of road traffic. I share that view. Road transport relative to rail has been too cheap. This is because for a long time we had a system that wanted to push down costs – it was social dumping with foreign truck drivers who went with poor wages on Swedish roads, and it would be as low costs as possible. After all, we have addressed this by making increased demands on rules for driving time and rest time, classing and ordering responsibility, and by negotiating a mobility package which, when it comes into force, means that it is posting from day one that applies. You should have reasonable wages when driving a truck in Sweden. We make the same demands on winter tires, for example. I therefore believe that the cost of road transport on lorries will increase. That is, to be clear, because there is no such thing as free shipping. It will cost, and because we want it to be good conditions and a reasonable development for drivers – and also climate-smart cars and vehicles – that kind of transport costs will also increase. It will also benefit the railways.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-316	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take in the short term so that the inhabitants of Gävleborg can feel safe and have an acceptable psychosocial environment regarding predatory pressure, what measures I intend to take to ensure that Parliament's decisions are followed on both the number of wolves and geographical spread and what measures I intend to take so that school lessons do not have to be cancelled because of high predatory pressure in Gävleborg. The overall and long-term goal of Sweden's predatory policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and royal eagles should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status under the Nature Conservation Directive, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Animal management should be consistent with our EU legal obligations and national targets. It should be possible for people to live in rural areas and work in their green industries. It is also important to create the conditions for coexistence between predators and humans. The State therefore contributes to preventive measures, such as predator-repellent fences or compensation for damage caused by predators. The Swedish Parliament decided in 2013 to approve the proposals in the bill A sustainable predator policy (prop. 2012/ 13:191) that the reference value for favourable conservation status of the Swedish wolf population should be somewhere between 170 and 270 individuals. The reference value indicates how many individuals need to be present for the wolf strain to be considered as having a favourable conservation status. In the bill, the Government stated that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would, after Parliament's treatment, assess what the exact reference value for wolf would be within the range proposed by the Government and report the value to the European Commission under the Species and Habitats Directive. According to the European Commission's guidelines, the reported reference value cannot be an interval but must be an exact value. In accordance with Parliament's decision, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden should be at least 270 wolves. The reference value for favourable conservation status may then not be less than the reference value. The Species and Habitats Directive requires Member States to report reference values for all species listed in the Annexes to the Directive every six years. The parliamentary decision was about the reporting of predators that Sweden did in 2013. The vulnerability analysis underlying the reference value in the 2013 bill was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects. The Swedish population of wolf has had a higher inbreeding rate than was included in the analysis, and the analysis therefore contradicted the European Commission's guidelines on the scientific basis of the reference value. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis. The analysis showed that at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. I understand that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the wolf in Sweden now rests on the scientific basis that the European Commission's guidelines require of the Member States. During the 2019/ 2020 inventory season, it was estimated that there were 365 wolves in Sweden. When the population has favourable conservation status, it is possible to make decisions on licence hunting, among other things, in order to reduce the density of the wolf strain. During this winter it has been possible to conduct a licence hunt. The total hunting withdrawal was 27 wolves, of which 16 wolves have been felled in Gävleborg County. In addition, it is also possible to decide whether to hunt for protection if damage occurs or for preventive purposes, provided that the favourable conservation status is not affected and that there is no other solution. The County Administrative Board of Gävleborg has recently decided to hunt for protection on two wolves. A total of three wolves have been hunted this year. The goal is for Sweden's wolf tribe to spread over larger areas than today. These are natural processes that take time to achieve. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency decides on minimum levels of wolf in the counties concerned. It is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, together with the county administrative boards, that is responsible for the management of the wolf tribe. At present, the government is reviewing the regulatory framework for setting minimum levels for large predators in order to increase the flexibility between counties, thus facilitating the process of dissipation of the wolf population, including through its spread across larger areas of the country.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-326	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for your answer. In my county of Gävleborg we have a predatory pressure that is totally unacceptable. This predatory pressure, especially with wolf, is shared with nearby neighboring counties. The Moderates in Gävleborg have an internal predator group. We have visited a number of sheep farmers in Gävleborg. We've met hunters. We've been talking to families with children in Lingbo, which is outside Ockelbo. We've met with agricultural organizations. We have had meetings; due to covid there have of course been many digital meetings. We can only note that the government's idea of licensing predator policy to the Green Party and to the authorities governed by the Green Party has had devastating consequences. I wrote this interpellation because a principal canceled an outdoor lesson for a school class because of fear that there might be an accident with a wolf. Furthermore, SVT was recently in Kilafors and made a film recording and talked to one of the farmers there, who is heavily affected by predators. When you were recording the actual TV feature, a wolf came running over a meadow. For those environmentalists who live south of Dalälven, who may be active in the Swedish Rovjursföreningen and live in Nacka, predators are naturally picturesque. But, Madam President, for the family of children living in Lingbo, outside Ockelbo, it is not picturesque, it is reality. The harsh, cold reality is that one is simply afraid of the consequences of getting wolf so close to man. When the parliament adopted the predator bill, it was a prerequisite that psychosocial considerations should be taken into account. It cannot be the intention, Madam President, that the wolf should go before the children of Lingbo. This, of course, requires the government to act and instruct its authorities. When a predator inventory was made in Gävleborg, representatives of the County Administrative Board said that there were perhaps more than 100 wolves in Gävleborg. If the Riksdag has decided that the number should be 170 – 270 wolves, it is of course crazy that we have 100 wolves in Gävleborg. Madam President, I would like You must be able to live, live and run companies throughout Sweden. One must be able to be a sheep farmer in Vallsta without fear of seeing the sheep eaten by wolves. Unfortunately, Madam President, there are fewer and fewer sheep farmers in Sweden, and that is not the case. We cannot have it in the way that the Minister and the Social Democrats have licensed predatory policy to the Green Party and the authorities that the Green Party is related to, because the consequences are totally unreasonable.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-335	Madam President, I would like This is, of course, a discussion that we come back to time and again in this House, and that is because it is a debate that arouses a great deal of emotion. It stirs emotions among people living in rural areas. This is perhaps the most important issue at the moment in building up the conflict between the city and the country. The people in the countryside in Gävleborg County, as my colleague Lars Beckman talked about, feel incredibly forgotten right now when we have such an extremely high wolf pressure in Gävleborg. Gävleborg is an example of an area where there is an extreme amount of wolf right now. In my own country Östergötland we do not have as much wolf. We have quite a newly established vargrevir, but this arouses exactly the same feelings. I was there last week. It's actually good to come out and meet people on wolf issues in these times– people stand far apart out on pastures, so it works very well. The same problem was highlighted there as Lars Beckman highlighted to Gävleborg. It is about what people should do with their animals and what pastures to graze. Do you dare let your children out? These are exactly the same questions. We are not going to turn this into a debate that is just about whether we are going to be able to let our children out in the countryside, because that is not just what the wolf debate is about. From the Moderates' side, we haven't said that all wolves should be removed, so there will be wolves in the countryside-- that's how it is. We have for some time been pushing the question of moving towards the lower target of 170 wolves in Parliament, and we believe that this will also be heard in the EU. In the interpellation response, the Government pointed out that the current level of 300 wolves feels scientifically based. However, it is not very many years since the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency said that 100 wolves are enough in Sweden together with Norway, i.e. on the Scandinavian Peninsula. This level was of course also scientifically based. Now it's a new science-based level of 300 wolves. Then I wonder quietly: Will there be a new scientifically based level of 500 wolves in Sweden in five years' time? The next question, Madam President, concerns the predatory decision taken in 2013. There we talked about 170 – 270 wolves, socio-economic aspects and domestic animal husbandry. The wolf tribe would be scattered throughout Sweden, except for reindeer grazing land and Gotland. However, we have not had wolves since then. The wolf has been quite centered in central Sweden, and then the pressure becomes extremely hard in those areas. What we now see is that the wolf is beginning to spread a little to new areas; it pops up new territory a little here and there in southern Sweden. Then there will be the new problem, Madam President, because the further south the wolf comes, the more wild animals will have. This will mean that during the winter months, when the wolf may dare to seek a little closer housing for food, there will be outdoor animals. We're going to have trouble in another way with very much evicted animals. Then it is not only the sheep, which Lars Beckman mentioned earlier, that are the problem, but there are also a lot of problems with cattle. Excavated cattle will lead to extremely high costs, because someone has to pay for this. One might wonder whether the traders or the state should pay for this, Madam President. And the next thing you can ask yourself, how much will the wolf administration cost? How much is this going to cause in financial terms?
i-5Y9HFzRdeoNyGeXoVc6E2f	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman and John Widegren, for the interpellation! As both interpellants have said, this is an issue that arouses a great deal of emotion. Somewhere I think John Widegren called in some of what is the big challenge in this if you're not going to have zero wolves in Sweden, which John Widegren was careful to point out is not the Moderates' proposal, namely that this raises feelings even where it becomes new start-ups. If the initial value of this discussion is that the wolves we should have are distributed evenly across the country and that the pressure is too great in some places and therefore need to be reduced, this will constantly be a debate that arouses emotion. However, I cannot escape the fact that you need to start from reality when you have a political discussion if it is that you really want to create change in something. I note that the Moderates consistently ignore the fact that we have to relate to the Species and Habitats Directive and that the wolf is strictly protected. Then the Moderates try to make a connection to that it would be possible to put another figure on this. In this context, I should like to make a point. When we talk about the Swedish wolf population having a favourable conservation status, which is also found in the decision that Parliament has taken and to which we refer, it is not really about a number but about having a wolf tribe that is not inbred. This means that the figure can of course change over time, both upwards and downwards, depending on how we manage it. If you manage the reproduction in a good way, even increase it, and thus get better DNA and less inbreeding in the stem, you can of course have fewer wolves. If it fails, you can see that there will be completely different figures, so it will be a very hypothetical discussion. It is a question that I have to ask in this context, given that you land back very much in that we should follow Parliament's decisions which, of course, I also think we should at all times. I have great respect for this House and note that the Parliament's decision states that the wolf tribe should have favourable conservation status and indicates the range of 170 to 270 individuals. Is this debate for real to the Moderates about the figure, so if there were 270 wolves instead of 300, would that not be a problem? If so, where should the 270, or let's say 170, wolves be so that it won't be a problem for the Moderates?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-348	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister, like all the other ministers, wants to talk about Moderate politics, and I think that is a good thing. The more moderate the policy we talk about in Parliament, the better it is. Madam President, I would like I would still like to know what the Minister for Rural Development thinks, what the government thinks. Is it reasonable for school lessons in Ovanåker to be cancelled or changed because of predator pressure? You can answer with yes or no. Is it reasonable for a sheep farmer in Vallsta or Kilafors to be able to carry on business without being adversely affected by wolf? You can answer with yes or no. Is it reasonable for a hunter to have his dog eaten by a wolf? You can answer with yes or no. Should you be able to hunt loose dogs in Sweden? Madam President, it is possible to answer by yes or no. In fact, I want to know what the Minister thinks and what the government's policy is. The consequences of the government's policy right now, after six years with the Green Party that has had a veto on these issues, we can see in Gävleborg and other counties. We can see how the Miljöpartiet's extended arm, the Swedish Rovjursföreningen, writes angry debate articles in the county newspapers in Gävleborg where they naturally have a completely different attitude. And I can respect that, Madam President. One may think that we should have unlimited wolf in Sweden. In fact, however, the opposite is true. We have freedom of expression in Sweden. The Moderates have a reasonable predatory policy. We want people to be taken into account, to take psychosocial considerations into account. I think it is absolutely right to shoot a wolf who is close to a family with children in Nacka – I fully support it – but I cannot understand why a family with children in Lingbo would have less value than a family with children in Nacka, Madam President. And I do not think that those who live in Gävleborg understand that difference either. I would like to ask the Minister: Who in the world of government is most important, the wolf or the child who lives in Lingbo? The question is black or white. Nevertheless, I think that the predator proposal decided by the Parliament is well balanced. It was produced in an extremely skilful and good way. The problem is that we then changed the government in 2014 and that the current government has allowed our authorities not to follow the direction of the predator bill. The bill clearly states that psychosocial considerations should be taken into account. Obviously it works very well in Mälardalen, because there you quickly make decisions about protection hunting. But it doesn't work as well in other places. I think that those who follow this debate would like to know the Government's response to what the Government intends to do in the short term so that everyone who lives in Gävleborg should have the right to feel safe, that they should be able to let the dog or cat out on the farm, that they should be able to have children playing on the farm or that the children should be able to go on a school trip to Ovanåker. That's what this is about. It is not primarily about feelings, it is about the reality of the people affected by predatory pressure. Just as the Minister himself and as my colleague John Widegren summed it up, the Moderates do not want zero wolves in Sweden. But we believe that Parliament's decisions should be followed and that people should be able to live, live and run companies throughout Sweden, even outside urban areas.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers. Are the Moderate wolf politics just numbers? No, it's really not just numbers. But the fact that we are clear and talking about 170 wolves, as we are doing right now, is because we want to be clear about the signal that we need to reduce the number of wolves in Sweden. It is a really clear signal that we are going to reduce the number of wolves in Sweden, because they are on a limited area today, and there we have far too dense stems. We see time and again that the protection hunting procedure does not work either. Now there's a new mission to look at protection hunting. It is almost 20 years since the last revision of the protection hunting guidelines, so it is absolutely high time. For the Moderates, wolf politics is not just a figure. But by entering a number we make a clear statement that we must reduce the number of wolves in Sweden. That is the clearest message we can give. Then it is interesting that in the predator bill that came in 2013, which was highlighted here by the Government, Madam President, it clearly says favourable conservation status. What a favorable conservation status is, I don't really know. In my world, favourable conservation status is basically a political concept. But there are also a number of other targets in the predator bill. And the only goal that the government has actually managed to achieve is precisely the number of wolves based on what the bill said. All the other goals can be achieved very badly. What does it mean, then, if sheep farmers in counties such as Gävleborg end because of their predatory policy? Yes, it means reduced food production in Sweden and overgrown pastures. If that's what we're gonna do, then let's say it. Then we move agriculture down to southern Sweden and have it only there. Is that the tune we're going to play for? I do not think the Minister for Rural Development wants that, but it is just as Lars Beckman has said in his previous speeches: Mr Man has surrendered to the Green Party on this issue. That is why I want to hear what the Social Democrats want.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-362	Madam President, I would like I thank the debaters. I'll start with the last question. Since it is constantly claimed that it is the Green Party that is pushing on these issues and that the development is negative, given that you want fewer wolves or that you should shoot more, you can look at the statistics to conclude that it is actually not true. I am absolutely convinced that they would like to have a much greater influence than they actually have. For example, if we look at the proportion of shot wolves from 2010 to 2014, we can see that the year in which the most wolves were shot during the recent reign of the Alliance there were 60 wolves. In the year when it was shot at least wolves, 35 wolves were shot. In a comparison between 2014 and this year, the highest figure is 77 wolves, i.e. a higher figure than that of the recent Alliance in government, and the lowest figure is 32, i.e. slightly smaller. Then this is in some sense completely irrelevant figures, because it depends of course on how many wolves there are, what conditions there are and how you work in politics. In this context, I can only say that I get much of an explanation of what is the problem when, in his last speech, John Widegren asks what favourable conservation status is and says that he thinks it is a political concept. That's exactly what it's not. It is stated in the Species and Habitats Directive that the wolf, along with the other specified predators in this context, has strict protection and that each Member State has to live up to favourable conservation status. That means it shouldn't be inbred, point. Too few individuals create inbred and unsound tribes, and that is what we have to deal with in this context. This means that, in my view, there is one issue that we need to develop more in order to have a realistic and sensible discussion about possibly reducing the wolf population over time. It is a question of continuing to develop how to inventory wolves, and that is, for example, about DNA, linked to inventory and counting, in order to ensure to a greater extent that the right wolves are shot instead of the wrong wolves from a genetic perspective. Lars Beckman asks a number of rhetorical questions to answer yes or no to. In this context, I note that I put two questions to Lars Beckman, whom he chose to ignore completely. Politics is rarely or never about being able to answer yes or no to anything, if you really want to be serious. Now I do not hope very much that this debate will serve the purpose of the interpellier. But of course it is extremely important for me as the responsible minister that we have good governance, given the framework that we have to relate to in Sweden. That's why we've been working actively to make it better. It is about that we should be able to live up to this on the basis that we should still have wolf in Sweden. For example, we have introduced an urgent requirement for protection hunting, so that decisions can be made quickly. We have made sure to make the proceedings legally secure by setting up a single administrative court – previously there were several – in Luleå. We are currently looking at the minimum levels and removing them from the county level and putting them in the predator management area. In this way, we can work more to sparse them out seriously. We have raised the ceiling for compensation in the event of damage from 80% to 100%. These are some examples. In this context, it is a bit bizarre when the Moderates' policy lands in this: we are setting a figure for which we have no support, because we want signal policy in this area.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-370	Madam President, I would like Yes, if the government's aim is to increase the number of wolves in Sweden and Gävleborg, they have succeeded very well. If that is the purpose of the government, it has succeeded very well. I believe that everyone who sees this debate, everyone who lives north of Dalälven, everyone who is a hunter, everyone who is a dog owner and everyone who is a sheep farmer knows and understands why the number of wolves is increasing sharply in Sweden. This is, of course, because the Green Party has a veto in government policy. I have asked the Minister for Rural Development – when you do not want to answer a question, you say things like the Minister for Rural Development now said – straight and straight: What is most important for the Minister? What's the highest in rank? Is it the children's family in Lingbo, who should feel safe and be able to have their children on the farm? Or is it most important to have many wolves? Is it most important that the sheep farmer in Vallsta should be able to conduct an economic activity, or is it the wolf that is most important? Is it the horse high school in Hälsingland, which I visited last autumn and which described the consequences of having the wolf howling so that the horses shone? Is this what matters most to the Minister? Is there any empathy for those affected by predator pressure in Sweden and Gävleborg? Does the minister have any empathy and understanding for those who are physically affected, such as at the horse high school, by hearing the wolf howling, with all that it means with frightened horses, frightened students and troubled parents? That's what it's all about. It's not feelings. It's not the spirit, it's the reality. I would like to know briefly: Does the Minister share the Moderates' demand that we have fewer wolves in Sweden? Should we take psychosocial consideration even for those living in predatory areas? In fact, it is possible to answer such a question.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-375	Madam President, I would like As the minister responsible, it is my ambition that we ensure that we have a policy that is wise and that relates to the reality in which we live as well as possible. When managing wolf, one must of course have a policy that also takes socio-economic considerations into account and which, with all the tools available, ensures that people can both operate and feel safe anywhere in the country they live. Unlike previous governments, this government has always worked to develop the tools so that they become better and so that we can better live up to this. In this context, given that this is constantly coming back, I would just like to say that there were more wolves in the alliance period without MP in the government than there are in this government. I say that as a curiosity in this context. But I guess Lars Beckman listens to the Green Party even when he's in government. That's an exciting thought. I would also like to say that Moderate rhetoric leads to absolutely nothing when it comes to doing something better for those people who feel insecure and who feel that, for example, they cannot be traders in the area. It ignores the fact that we in Sweden are not free to set any figure we want. We need to take into account favourable conservation status. My policy has led us in Gävleborg this winter to actually shoot off 18 wolves. That's the difference between my politics and Lars Beckman's politics.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-381	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what the government is doing to make it easier for researchers to carry out their research with relevant funding in the current situation. I would like to begin by saying that the government is closely monitoring the impact of the pandemic caused by the new coronavirus on research and research funding. The Government has commissioned the University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, to monitor the consequences for the university's activities regarding decisions and actions taken in connection with the ongoing pandemic. In this work, UKÄ, among other things, follows up how research funding has been affected. A report on this will be submitted shortly. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government estimated that the ongoing pandemic affects private funding of research and that R & D-intensive companies can reduce their investment in research. In the budget bill, the government therefore proposed increased research funding, which was presented in more detail in the proposal Research, Freedom, Future – Knowledge and Innovation for Sweden (prop. 2020/ 21:60), which was submitted to the Riksdag in December 2020. The Government believes that investment in research and innovation will increase significantly with a sharp increase in government investment in research and innovation by 3.4 billion in 2021. Unlike many previous research policy proposals, almost the entire level increase is already being made in the first year of the four-year period. One reason is the effects of the pandemic, which, among other things, means that funding from foundations and industry is expected to decrease. Measures taken by the Government include an increase of nearly SEK 1.3 billion in HEIs' research funding for 2021. Of this, SEK 500 million is a temporary increase in higher education institutions' research funding, which aims to counteract the effects of reduced co-financing from business and private foundations due to the pandemic. The Government has also taken specific measures to ensure that urgent medical research is carried out. As the interpeller states, the coronapandemine has meant that clinical research could not be carried out as planned, and significant research funds risk not being used. To the so-called ALF agreement between the state and some county councils, there has therefore been an addition that enables last year's unspent funds to the regions for clinical research to be used this year instead. The Government has also allocated SEK 100 million to research on covid vaccination and SEK 50 million to research on long-term covid. Research is crucial to meet future societal challenges and to be able to face the acute situation that the pandemic has faced us with. The state takes responsibility for maintaining the investments in Swedish research and innovation at a time when both society and the economy as well as the research and innovation system are under particular strain.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-389	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer a moment ago. A very large part of medical and scientific research in the country's universities and colleges is done with financial support from external grant providers, both public and private. Among the former are the Swedish Research Council, Formas, Forte and Vinnova. Among the latter are a large number of foundations and funds of varying sizes, such as the Brain Fund, Cancer Fund, Wallenberg, Söderberg, Crafoord and others. These funds are familiar to the research community and pay both researchers and technical staff employed at universities. Madam President, I would like Researchers live in a situation very similar to that of artists and artists. Their continued employment and activities depend on the income from grants, which in turn depends on the researchers' own performance. Now the covid-19 pandemic is a year old. In many places, the pandemic has shut down all patient-related research and sent home personnel involved in experimental research. This also reduces the researcher's ability to compete for new grants. Furthermore, many of the funds that give these grants are dependent on dividends, usually in larger Swedish companies. Now that these dividends have been withdrawn, the amount of funds that may be distributed will also decrease. This means that the researchers sit with research tasks for which there is funding but where you cannot carry out the work. But you still have the same expenses. Researchers continue to pay expensive building costs to universities and regions and have continued to pay full salary costs to technical staff sent home, for example. Madam President, I would like Although some tasks can be performed from home, studies on patients cannot be carried out on an ongoing basis. As a result, the appropriations for many will run out before the task has been solved. This means that you run the risk of not getting new funding because you have not been able to complete studies and produce results and publications. When the money is then over, you have to lay off the staff and yourself suffer from a lack of funds and dismissal with some year's delay. At best, you just lose your research career. This is to the great detriment of both the individual and Sweden as a research nation, and therefore I have asked the Minister for Education and Research what she and the Government intend to do to make it easier for researchers to deal with the situation. I would also like to ask a more specific question on the basis of the answer. Will the government provide specifically dedicated funds to those universities which, in accordance with the recommendations of the Public Health Authority, have sent home staff or closed down studies so that the personnel and premises costs of these researchers can be covered? If not, how will the government make it easier for researchers to continue despite current limitations? If this does not happen, a great deal of redundancies and abandoned projects will probably take place in the coming years. Research is not something that is happening here and now; it is happening over a long period of time. Sweden would then lose skills that in some cases have taken decades to build up.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-397	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate on a very important issue, namely how we maintain investment in Swedish research and innovation, not least during what is now testing us as a society and the whole world – the pandemic. I want to repeat some of what I said earlier. The Swedish Government takes responsibility for investments in Swedish research and innovation. We have presented new SEK 13.6 billion that we are investing in Swedish research and innovation over the next four years, and we are very consciously adding almost the whole level increase this year – SEK 3.4 billion. It has to do with the fact that we know the pressures that our researchers and research are facing during this pandemic. We also know that it can be difficult for the business community to be able to give as much money to the research as has been done before, although in all contexts I try to say that I know that Swedish industry and others are also very interested in continuing to invest in Swedish research. I know that they are doing their utmost to continue to do so also through the pandemic. These are important bets. The research bill therefore contains nine times more money in the first year than in the previous year, and there is a good reason for this. We also provide direct strategic research funding of 1.3 billion to our universities this year, of which 500 million this year. These have already been distributed in regulatory letters so that higher education institutions with this money can contribute to making strategic considerations so that they can maintain investments in such important research carried out at universities and higher education institutions. So I think that the government in the middle of Swedish politics, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, is trying to take responsibility for these parts too through the pandemic. We have also commissioned the University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, to follow how the pandemic affects universities, both education and research. I will shortly receive a first interim report from UKÄ concerning research funding. It is clear that it will also be an important basis for the future in order to get an even better picture of what it looks like and what measures the pandemic may require us to jointly take responsibility for.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-404	Madam President, I would like This may seem like a small covid problem, but it's so important. This is a very advanced business. It does not raise the headlines until that day the scientific findings reach excellence and world reputation. There is an incredible amount of research going on today, and medical research in particular is linked precisely to the patient-related activities. Now specialists at all universities send home staff because you don't want people in laboratories or hospitals. This often corresponds to layoffs. So far, however, we have not seen that this has fitted in with the aid that existed under the coronapndemin. The Minister's answer speaks of SEK 500 million in new research grants, but I still do not hear that they are specifically intended to support those groups that have suffered the most. We also have the new call procedure, which will mean that the money will not be available for research for two three years. But it is right now that many researchers are in the position to have high costs and staff that may even have disappeared. These are the means that will in all likelihood be announced for a new search, which in itself means that those who are most affected by Corona, i.e. those who have taken the most responsibility and put up the most in health care, may be those who have made the least research progress in 2021 and thus receive the least dividends. I would like the Minister to be able to specify further that the money is being spent precisely on those who are currently sitting on costs but are unable to run their projects and thus risk that the research projects fall aside and cannot be carried out. There's a lot of people who've gone into medical care. Research nurses and biomedical analysts have disappeared to iva. Thus, the research projects have been affected. One good thing has led to another evil. What I want with the debate is to clarify how the government will be clear about replacing the lack of progress in, for example, neurological research or older people's research on the basis of these premises. How is this to be done?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-409	Madam President, I would like What we should remember is that researchers and often most of the doctoral students are employed at higher education institutions and universities. Universities and universities also have employer responsibility for their work situation. It is challenging for higher education institutions to plan and manage the problems caused by the pandemic. I have very close contact with the principals of our universities and colleges, and I feel a strong confidence in the work being done to maintain education, so that both individuals and society can stand stronger and continue to train doctors, nurses, teachers and so on during this pandemic. It is an extremely important work that is done, and the students take a great responsibility. For a whole year, they have conducted their studies remotely. The responsibility also applies to research and researchers. The teaching institutions are working hard to solve these problems. The government also contributes 3.4 billion already this year in the middle of Swedish politics. That's nine times more money than what came out of the last research bill. There is a special initiative aimed at our universities, i.e. the funding of 500 million for strategic research. Karolinska Institutet has received 80 million, the University of Gothenburg has received 35 million, Uppsala University has received 55 million, and so on. They are distributed partly based on how much external funding the higher education institutions have had and partly on an assessment of what the different higher education institutions look like. Some have greater opportunities to parry the various fluctuations due to the pandemic, and others have less opportunities. I really think that the government is trying to take responsibility, and I have met nothing but that it is rather a challenge for the sector to manage so much money in such a short time. Nevertheless, it must be a good rating of how we jointly try to take on and demonstrate our commitment and willingness to invest in Swedish research and innovation. I am a strong defender of free research and, not least, of academic freedom. This is also a reason why the government has put on the table of the Riksdag – and I really hope that the Riksdag will vote for this – a proposal to include in the Higher Education Act that academic freedom should be protected as a complement to the freedom of research, which is already enshrined in the Constitution. There are links to the Constitution. We must be giving that freedom to academia and research, not being there as politicians and trying to control which courses are to be put out, which research is to be conducted or how politicians should think exactly with precision what is right and right. I do not think so, and I hope that Mr Rothenberg does not feel that way either – although his educational policy spokesperson may have moved a bit in dangerous sections here. For me, it is important to support research and, based on clear criteria, allocate the amount of external funding and management of own government capital but with the freedom for our universities and colleges to take care of research efforts wisely.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-415	Madam President, I would like This became a debate of freedom, and I feel very at home in it. Freedom is something that works when you are both free from coercion and can create opportunities, do something creative. Freedom is also based on taking responsibility and others giving responsibility. Freedom and responsibility in this context is also about the government as the highest body in Sweden distributing huge amounts of money to Swedish research. The government will take responsibility and ensure that the money lands where it belongs. Yes, you should have confidence in the universities and colleges, but it looks different at medical faculties in particular, which I have landed on in this debate. For example, Uppsala University and Karolinska Institutet have been excessive and have not reduced their activities. It may indicate a risk behavior. Others have acted differently, that is, not all universities and colleges act in the same way. But a minister and a government have a responsibility for Swedish research to work even during these dramatic times. We could not know a year ago that today we would be in Parliament's chamber with mouthguards and hand alcohol. It was a development that was completely unpredictable. And it was also not possible for all universities to make exactly the right decision at that time that would fit the 9th of March 2021. I take the liberty of interpreting the Minister's reply as saying that scientists need not be concerned that their research will die because of a lack of funding. If I'm wrong, you can argue with me.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-420	Madam President, I would like We are really at a time when research and new knowledge are on everyone's lips. It has rarely been so clear how important it is that we invest in research, innovation and new knowledge in order to tackle the pandemic we are up to meet upcoming pandemics and other societal challenges. Based on the evolution of the pandemic, the government will consider whether further measures are necessary. I have regular contacts with principals and other authorities. UKÄ will submit an interim report on research funding, which will also provide a basis for the future. We are making a huge investment in Swedish research and innovation with an emphasis already this year with nine times more money compared to the previous research bill. The government has given the opportunity to use the funds under the ALF agreement that could not be used last year. Clinical research has, of course, been affected by the pandemic. Staff in the form of research nurses and doctors have been needed in the care and have not been able to carry out their research in the same way. The government has made it possible for that money to be used this year too. It's one way of trying to contribute. The government has strengthened research into vaccine follow-up and long-term covid, and we are making a major investment in the life science sector in general. We must respect the fact that we are in a pandemic and we cannot foresee everything that lies ahead of us. But I think that we should have respect for what we are trying to do together in the middle of Swedish politics for Swedish research and innovation. Thank you for the debate.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-426	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what further efforts I and the government intend to make to quickly re-establish trade between Sweden and the United Kingdom. The UK is one of Sweden's most important trading partners. Around 6 000 Swedish companies deal with the UK, and at least 70 000 people around Sweden go to a job that is available every day thanks to exports to the UK. It is gratifying that the EU and the UK have agreed on a free trade agreement. The agreement provides a good basis for continued cooperation between the EU and the United Kingdom. The agreement provides a strong institutional framework that provides a good basis for developing our trade relations, as the government intends to do with the United Kingdom. For our Swedish companies, the agreement provides clarity on which rules apply and increased predictability. At the same time, it is clear that the agreement does not solve all the problems arising from the new situation. When the UK chooses to leave the internal market, it is also inevitable that trade will become more expensive and complicated and that administrative burdens will increase. For this reason, the government and our authorities, as we have done over the last four years, continue to work intensively to assist companies with information and advice on what it means to trade with third countries and what rules apply in the new agreement and to help resolve uncertainties. Our Embassy in London and Business Sweden are today assisting Swedish companies on site in the UK. This takes place, inter alia, through dialogue with companies on the problems they face and through information campaigns aimed at business. For me as Foreign Trade Minister, it is important not only to maintain but also to develop and deepen our trade relations with the United Kingdom. When it became clear that the EU and the UK had agreed on a trade agreement, I made early contact and initiated a dialogue with representatives of the British Government on how best to promote trade relations between our countries. The Government intends to maintain and further develop the broad and very good relations between Sweden and the UK. In this way, we create good conditions for Swedish companies to operate and invest in the UK and for British companies to operate and invest in Sweden.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Commerce, for the answers! These are issues that I had really hoped would not have to discuss. There are two crises that have affected the relationship between Sweden and the United Kingdom. On the other hand, it is Brexit, and partly it is covid-19-pandemin. The free trade that is so important for Sweden obviously cannot be taken for granted. Like democracy, it must be reclaimed every day. Trade is based on reciprocity, and no one can do the job alone. It takes two to tango. Fifty years ago, total exports in the world did not represent much more than one tenth of the world's total GDP. Today, the export share is 30%, which has led to increased prosperity for people around the world. It is therefore important for Sweden to stick to other free trade friends – in order to develop trade as well. And that is why, Madam President, the relationship with Britain is particularly important. It was precisely in the run-up to negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom that an agreement was reached on how the parties could regulate it in the future. Although the agreement is welcome and largely represents a new situation in trade between Member States, there are problems. Further negotiations between the EU and the UK have been launched to facilitate authorisation management in transport and logistics and to start approving UK professional qualifications in the EU. Trade between Sweden and the United Kingdom decreased dramatically in 2020, largely under the influence of the coronapndemine. One brake block for catching up is the Brexit effect, which also slows down British growth by about 1 percentage point. Many economists expect it to take many years to achieve a reasonable recovery. It is therefore essential for both countries to act decisively in order to speed up the recovery. The Minister for Trade has signalled that in the near future there will be a joint so-called business forum between the countries. It's good, but it's not good enough. That is why I have asked the Minister for Trade what further efforts she and the Government intend to make to quickly re-establish trade between Sweden and the United Kingdom. The Minister's reply shows that the government and the authorities continue to provide information and advice to businesses. Yeah, it's business as usual. But now it's business as unusual. Then I would have liked to have clarified what this aid should do in more concrete terms, in the light of the new circumstances. The dialogue that the government announces with representatives of the British Government on how trade relations between our countries can be promoted, what has it led to? And what, in concrete terms, does the Minister want it to lead to? Madam President, I would like There are many things that need to be taken into account now. The importance of trade in services, the importance of e-commerce, Brexit versus the pandemic – what is most important to act around? Above all, the Swedish Customs Agency and Kommerskollegium, which assist Swedish companies, need to be able to act with much greater freedom today. We need to see the Swedish companies meet authorities who have a different approach. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she will ensure that the Customs and the National Board of Trade are given a wider framework.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-445	Madam President, I would like I certainly agree that Britain is an incredibly important trading partner. It should be remembered that Sweden exports goods and services to the UK to a value of SEK 135 billion each year. That is a significant amount. We shall not only maintain trade with the United Kingdom but also develop and deepen it, and we shall ensure that there is growth in trade with the United Kingdom. We have excellent bilateral relations between Sweden and the UK, and it is a fantastic base to stand on. But as Hans Rothenberg describes, there is now a new situation. It is a difficult situation, yes, but it can also be a situation that offers many opportunities – opportunities for Swedish companies to have even better conditions in relation to companies in many other countries that do not have the same deep and close relationship and are not as allies with the UK. There can probably never be as good opportunities as when Britain belonged to the internal market, but after all we must be optimistic and see that we can develop and expand our relationship with the United Kingdom. Then what are we supposed to do? To start with our authorities, the information efforts that are being made there and the support that is there, we have spent a lot of resources on the Customs since Brexit became a fact. We have chosen to invest so much resources in the long term that we have been able to employ a significant number of more employees who work only with these issues within the framework of the Swedish Customs Agency. The National Board of Trade has more of an analytical task and is not as much asked by SMEs as the Swedish Customs Agency. So we have put resources there. If more is needed, we will, of course, have to review it. Right now we are not getting those signals, but it is incredibly important that our authorities work here. The fact that Business Sweden works on site in the UK is also something we review and will ensure. We have already reviewed it, and we ensure that Business Sweden can act actively and pragmatically on site in the UK. To move on to what more can be done on the part of the government, in addition to this with information and support from the authorities and so on, I see as Minister for Trade that there is much to do in terms of creating a framework and a relationship with the British Government. The Business Forum – that is, a meeting between me and my British Minister of Trade and Swedish and British companies – which we are planning in the near future, is it good enough? Is that enough? No, of course that is not enough. But it is a very important step forward, and one of the first things we should do now is start doing business together that governments support among themselves. We create a framework, but we also create a relationship between governments that spills over on our companies. That is why I was so early in making contact with my British Minister of Trade. There is also an opportunity for the EU's long-term budget, which sets up the so-called Brexit adjustment reserve. Negotiations on it are ongoing, but preliminary Sweden is expected to be able to get about SEK 1 billion from there. This is also something that compensates. We shall make use of all such opportunities and all the means to counter the negative consequences of Brexit, which can go to measures to help businesses, especially those that may be most affected by the economic consequences of Brexit. Finally, I would also like to say that it is the areas of cooperation that are priorities for Sweden and where there is also interest from the British side that I raise in my contacts with the British Government. It is about life science, the automotive sector and the timber industry, but also very much about the services sector. So there is a great deal we can do together, not least in cooperation between our two governments.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-457	Madam President, I would like Britain is not just any nation. It is an extremely technology-driven market, which is also very close to the European family. From having previously been the cream on the cake in the shops, services linked to product sales today often represent the majority of companies' preferences. The development of e-commerce will also be significantly affected, with higher costs for individuals. Britain's departure from the EU is not just a loss to the Union. It is also a loss for Sweden. We have lost an ally in view of Britain's global ambitions to be a clear voice for free trade. We have lost an ally within the European circle. We must jointly uphold multilateralism and a rules-based trading system. For Sweden, this also means that we have a looser bond with a former like-mind, not least as regards the view on the free movement of goods and capital. It is in Sweden's absolute interest to reconnect this bond to a long-term sustainable relationship. The lowest hanging fruits are therefore where the interests of our two countries coincide most. I would like to mention a few examples. It is primarily about assisting companies to regain lost land but also to develop existing business. The larger companies that are already used to trading with countries outside the EU can adapt more easily than smaller companies can. They often need to familiarise themselves with completely new regulations. The goal of the relationship between the countries must be that Swedish companies should not in practice notice any significant difference after the withdrawal. Restarting the trading relationship requires more than a business forum; it is good, but not good enough to restart the market. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise reports, Madam President, that Swedish companies are experiencing problems such as longer lead times, increased bureaucracy and higher costs with the new border between the EU and the UK. These are real problems which customs services, authorities and administrations in each country must take very seriously. It is not only a problem for Swedish but also for British companies. This is a problem for both Swedish and British consumers. Solving these problems must be at the top of the government's trade agenda. In addition to cutting red tape and cutting costs, there is also a need to stimulate direct investment in both countries. The time has passed when foreign ownership in Sweden was seen as a failure. Instead, it should be seen as a receipt that Sweden is an attractive country to invest and operate in. The UK has historically been, is and will remain a key player in safeguarding the transatlantic link and its strategic importance. Sweden therefore needs to be a clear ally of Britain's global ambitions to be a voice for free trade. We must also be able to work together to maintain multilateralism and a rules-based trading system. Here Sweden and the UK need to work together with like-minded people in the WTO circle. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to see a greater opportunity for authorities such as Tullverket, Kommerskollegium and others to assist Swedish companies with the necessary measures for the continued trade with the UK. These are ambitions that the government should also have. I assume that it does, and the Minister is happy to confirm this. Reduced costs and faster handling – this is what companies want.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-467	Madam President, I would like Britain is indeed a like-minded and an ally. I can inform Mr Rothenberg that I miss them every time I have a meeting with the trade ministers in Brussels. It's a power that's missing, and we're gonna do everything we can to fill that void. We are also doing this now by creating groups of like-minded people. Perhaps it will be in another forum and in another interpellation we can discuss how to work in Europe to fill the void, because it is a void. But there is also, as I said, a relationship to build on and develop. Of course, if a country and a large economy such as the United Kingdom leave the internal market, it will have negative consequences. We will do everything we can, on the part of Sweden and the European Union, but also, I know, on the part of the United Kingdom to minimise the negative consequences. But they are there, and for a transitional period they will be noticeable to businesses. How noticeable? We are in contact with the Swedish Chamber of Commerce in London, which has carried out a survey of how their member companies, that is Swedish companies located in the UK, view this and how trying these times are. Nevertheless, some 40% see that in 2021 and 2022 one can make one's business grow and get over the difficult period when one is now changing from belonging to the internal market to a third country. It is only 25% who do not expect any changes; I think that is quite a lot. 75 per cent of enterprises expect negative changes. I think these are such interesting questions that we need to carry out a deeper analysis of this. I have therefore commissioned the National Board of Trade, an authority for which I am responsible, to give us a better picture of possible disruptions and how we can act quickly to meet them. We must quickly have facts on the table. This, in response to Mr Rothenberg's question, is an example of what the government is doing, in addition to what I said earlier about the Customs Agency. We need to have a better analysis, and the National Board of Trade will now map the impact of the agreement with the UK on imports and exports. One thing is certain: the agreement is better than nothing at all. But belonging to the internal market is better than being a third country, so there will be a difference. I would also like to comment on the fact that this is also a similar country in other forums. I see great opportunities to hook arms with Britain on issues we are pursuing in the World Trade Organisation, but also in the context of the transatlantic relationship, as Mr Rothenberg mentioned. I think there is a great deal to do there with the United Kingdom and Ireland and the United States, which are also like-minded on many issues. In fact, Sweden sometimes has a key role to play. We see protectionist winds. We also see within the EU countries questioning openness, free trade and so on. Then we must create alliances also with countries outside the European Union, in this case also the United Kingdom. I would also like to comment on this with investments. From the government's side, this year we are making an extra effort to promote investment. This is also something I have raised with my British colleague: how can we increase investment in each other's countries? There are significant investments made. Looking at the list of the largest companies that have invested in the UK, we see a wide range of sectors: the timber industry, the automotive industry and, of course, the pharmaceutical industry, where we have a company originating in Sweden that we all know well. So there is a great deal to build on in terms of investment in our respective countries. This is an issue on which we must work very concretely and firmly. I will come back to the fact that, in the near future, we are starting to do business together and create business and investment opportunities. I am convinced that we can not only develop but also deepen and expand relations with the United Kingdom in the area of trade.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-476	Madam President, I would like There is much to say about the classic trading nation that Britain is, but Sweden is also a classic trading nation. The prosperity of our respective countries has been based on the fact that we have had reciprocity with the outside world. We're not in it. We have certainly had some different methods in Sweden and the UK for how we have taken on the outside world. After all, Britain is a former colonial power. It is interesting to note that the classic transatlantic link between the United Kingdom and the United States has since become a more integrated part of the EU, Europe and the United States. There is also another constellation that I have noted when I have been with former trade ministers at WTO ministerial meetings around the world, namely the Commonwealth, which consists of Canada, Australia, New Zealand and many other major and significant world economies. This is something to hook your arm with. It would be interesting to hear whether the Minister has any ambitions to revive not only the UK but also the various actors of the Commonwealth. This could lead to increased investment, on which both countries are very dependent. It also means that we can have more united action in the WTO. But what is here and now are the companies that are experiencing difficulties and costs in their relationship with the UK after Brexit and in connection with the covidpandemine. They need help right now. That is a major task the Minister has ahead of him, but I hope it will go the way. Otherwise, I'll bring you a new interpellation.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-481	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Rothenberg for raising this important issue in this House today. We fully agree that Sweden's good trade relationship with the UK should be protected and developed. It is also in much of the relationships that are the basis of our prosperity. Here and now, we must ensure that the consequences are minimised. We have talked about the authorities here today, but I am also talking about looking at the possibilities ahead. It's incredibly important. Finally, I would also like to take this opportunity to look up a little. Creating jobs, growth and prosperity in our country is, of course, the aim of trade policy, but it is a privilege from my horizon to see that it bears much else in international cooperation as well. Trade can be a way into continuing to develop a relationship with, for example, the UK in other areas as well. We are free trade friends, and we trust each other and have very many common denominators in multilateral contexts. Let me take an example. This was confirmed not least when the former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown, was a guest a few months ago in the Trade Policy Council that I have set up. He put forward precisely the constructive partnership that exists between Sweden and the UK in many important global challenges, such as development policy in developing countries and so on. So we have a lot to fall back on. Sometimes trade is perhaps the tickle of this, but we have to remember the broad relationship, and I would like to lean on that, not least when the UK will later this year host the G7 Summit, where global recovery, the promotion of free and fair trade and the climate issue are very high on the agenda. Partnership with the Commonwealth is also incredibly important to have into this. After all, we are working hard to develop these relations, including with third countries, of course. Although Britain has left the EU, our good cooperation continues in a number of important areas.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-487	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to improve the working environment in the health and social care sector. No one should be harmed or ill by their work. Working life should not lead to premature exclusion due to physical, social or organisational health and safety factors. I therefore take it very seriously that there are shortcomings in the working environment in health and long-term care. Since the government took office last term, an increased level of ambition for health and safety at work policy has been an important priority. Resources in this area have been greatly strengthened, with resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency for more inspectors and increased presence in the workplace, for work life research and for the establishment of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority notes that health and care problems need to be made more visible in the organisations, where decision-making mandates are available for improvement measures to reduce the risks of unhealthy workload. It is politicians in the council, the board and the board who are the ultimate employer representative and should make sure that workers are not exposed to risks of ill health and accidents at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority therefore met representatives of the majority of municipalities and regions at political level in 2019 to inform about the employer responsibility that politicians have. The information effort is now being followed up with inspections in all municipalities and regions to find out how the annual monitoring of systematic work environment management is conducted. Management's commitment to health and safety at work is important in order to provide staff with the right conditions for carrying out their work and creating a balance between resources and requirements. Occupational safety and health supervision is crucial for maintaining the protection of workers. The work situation of health and care workers needs to be improved. Good work environment and secure employment are crucial, among other things, to ensure the supply of skills in healthcare and long-term care. The Government wants to promote a sustainable working life and therefore invests a total of SEK 300 million in 2021 in a recovery bonus in healthcare and long-term care. The funds will be used for improved working environment, new working methods or by developing working time models. During the spring of 2020, the Government presented the initiative The Elderly Care Lift, which aims to strengthen skills in the care of the elderly by giving both new and existing staff the opportunity to receive training on paid working hours. The focus has been broadened to include first-line managers working in the care and care of the elderly. In total, the investment comprises just over SEK 3.4 billion for 2021. The Coronapandemine has presented additional challenges in the area of health and safety at work, and the press has increased, not least in the area of health and long-term care. The government has provided the relevant authorities with a number of mandates and significantly increased resources for health care and care for the elderly. At the beginning of December, the Government commissioned the Swedish Work Environment Agency, in consultation with the Swedish Public Health Agency, to urgently develop a guide to the work environment during the pandemic and to prevent contamination of covid-19 in workplaces. The guide was presented on 1 February and contains information on h of workers can be protected against infection by covid-19 when measures cannot eliminate the infection, such as the use of personal protective equipment and codes of conduct in case of detection or suspected infection at the workplace. The need for personal protective equipment to protect workers in healthcare and care from infectious risks during the current coronapandemine is high. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Work Environment Authority to ensure that there is a procedure in place to provide non CE-labelled personal protective equipment for socially important occupational groups. The decision aims to ensure the availability of personal protective equipment. The Swedish Work Environment Agency has carried out a work to inspect close to 300 workplaces in health care and care for the elderly in order to check that the protective equipment used meets the safety requirements and provides the disease protection that is intended. Everyone who works in welfare should have the time, energy and ability to provide patients, patients and clients with good care of good quality. I will follow this matter closely and will not rule out the need for further action in the future.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-493	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. We have debated occupational safety and health issues many times. Many times there has also been a focus on fatal accidents at workplaces. Unfortunately, the government has not had as much focus on elderly care and working conditions there. I am clearly concerned about the situation that has existed for a long time and which, on an even larger scale, is currently under the pandemic. We're talking about fatal accidents. On average, it's one a week. The Minister has a commitment to this, but we have not managed to reduce the number. It is certainly some relief because of the pandemic, but it is an issue that we should not discuss so much here and now. However, I wanted to show that there has been a lot of focus on the fatal accidents. Estimates show that as many as 500 die each year due to unhealthy workloads. This is often the case with women in the public sector. 500. That's terrible. In health and long-term care, there are 14% of the total workforce, and that is the sector we are now debating. Up to 90% are women. So there is a gender equality factor here. As much as 27 percent want to leave the profession, that in times when we have demographic challenges and it is difficult to recruit for health and social care. Allow me to comment on the Minister's reply. It starts well with:中 No one should have to be injured or ill by their work. We are in complete agreement here, but unfortunately that is not the case today. 中 Working life should not lead to premature exclusion due to physical, social or organisational health and safety factors. That's it, but it doesn't work that way. Since the government took office last term of office, there has been an increased level of ambition for health and safety policy, and this has been an important priority. Resources in this area have been greatly strengthened. Yet we have not achieved results. Workplace accidents still occur, and approximately 500 people die each year in the public sector. Despite considerable resource input and a strategy to improve the situation, the government has failed. Afa Försäkring reports that 47 percent of nurses and nurses are at risk of long-term sick leave. It is almost half of this staff – and this in times of great recruitment needs. This is a quiet group, but now you start to mobilize yourself via the nurse rebellion, a Facebook group where you can take part of this staff category's working environment conditions. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has also produced a report showing that every third person has been ill at work in the last 12 months. Can the Minister give me an analysis of why health and safety conditions, despite increased ambition and resource supply, have not improved but rather worsened?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-503	Madam President, I would like It is important to see that the coronapndemin has challenged the working environment in all professions and sectors of the Swedish labour market, not least, as I said in my introduction, for the staff employed in health care and care for the elderly. I welcome Mrs Quicklund's great commitment to health and safety at work. I can tell you that it is not 500 people per year who die because of their work and unhealthy burden. The numbers are higher than that. We expect about 700 people a year. In addition, if people who die from occupational diseases are added, there are more than 1 000 people. We also know from research that this development may get worse, and that is why we must put an end to this and break the trend. Therefore, increased ambitions for health and safety at work policy are central. I welcome the commitment. A broad majority of political parties must support this approach. Let me also inform you about the new strategy on health and safety at work that I presented a few weeks ago. It contains precisely an extension of the zero vision to include those who die because of work. This is a very important message for gender equality policy. We will have to do much more in this area. I have also given information about an occupational safety and health investigation. We need to review the health and safety acquis. The Swedish labour market does not look like the 70s, when most had more manual jobs in industry and more in the labour force were men. Much has happened, and so we need to review the health and safety acquis from the perspective of gender equality, broaden the zero vision and extend the scope of sanctions for employers who do not comply with existing requirements and rules. In a typical male industry such as construction, it is easy to see if a scaffolding is wrong and there is a risk of life and health. It is not as easy to identify an unhealthy stress and pressure in care for the elderly or in health care. That is why we need more knowledge and better tools. We need to ensure that employers assume their responsibilities and that there are good conditions for safety representatives to carry out their vital work. And, as I said, we need to review the health and safety acquis. In addition to what I mentioned at the outset and what I have said now, the Elderly Care Lift, which aims to strengthen the skills of both new and existing staff and managers, will provide approximately 10 000 new permanent jobs in the care of the elderly. We also make a special effort on sustainable working life and recovery in health and long-term care. This year the government is shooting at SEK 300 million, and for 2022 and onwards a total of SEK 1 billion per year is expected to be set aside for this purpose. These resources should go to an improved working environment. It is about strong general contributions to municipalities and regions that will enable more employees and better working conditions in welfare. A ten-year research programme has also been established at the Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and Welfare, which will focus on the working environment in women-dominated professions.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-514	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. I asked for an analysis of why it has failed despite increased ambition and increased resources. I'll get back to that. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has reported on the conditions. The Minister is of course aware of the fact that a large inspection round was made and that 90 per cent of the elderly people visited were reminded of the work environment. Of course it's serious. What was found was that employers had ignorance and unclear procedures for systematic work environment management, which of course made it difficult for staff to be involved and have influence. There were no regular studies and risk assessments of the working environment. There was also a lack of continuity, and many times a local safety representative was also lacking. The employers took action without following them up and checking that they had an effect – a bit like the government, I have to say. The government has good intentions and a strategy for health and safety at work, but the analysis of why it does not work is lacking. It therefore continues in the same track, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority also found that it was on these units. The employees were also not helped and supported to prioritise tasks when there was a shortage of resources and a lack of time. The managers also lacked the support of the employer to manage their leadership. It was a common point of view, and it was both administrative and management responsibility for too many employees. Unfortunately, we can see that some managers have up to 60 employees below them, and it goes without saying that they then do not have time to see the needs of the staff. A survey conducted in a retirement home showed that the salary was not the main goal of improvement in the workplace but to be seen by the manager. This shows the primary needs and that they are not met by the inspected activities. What the Swedish Work Environment Authority believes you need to fix is that the employer must have clear procedures and knowledge about the work, what results are to be achieved and how the work is to be carried out. The risks to the working environment shall also be regularly investigated, assessed and monitored. There are a number of measures in which the Swedish Work Environment Authority has been clear that they want to see changes. My question to the Minister is: how does the Minister follow up on this? The union Vision has been clear to show that 25 employees per manager today are the appropriate number for a manager to have the opportunity to see their employees and so on. Problems with coordination between the region and the municipality are highlighted by both the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the staff, as well as language confusion. 27 per cent of the staff are born abroad, and 39 per cent among health care workers, which, of course, gives rise to quality problems. Sick leave is the highest in healthcare and long-term care. I will come back to the Minister with my question: when she has heard everything, what is the government's analysis of the failure in this area?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-526	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for the post! I would like to start by being clear about what must nevertheless be an important starting point for the debate we have today, and that is to inform that it is the employer who is responsible for the working environment. What politics and the state can do is set up a regulatory framework and ensure that they have authorities that work in different ways to improve their operations out there, in the form of inspections that we have through the Swedish Work Environment Authority and in the form of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. It is about ensuring that safety representatives can carry out their important work and that managers, companies and employers know what applies. This is therefore the case for this type of action and important measures. I think it is important to take note of what Saila Quicklund raises when it comes to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's inspections. Nine out of ten workplaces inspected in the care of the elderly receive a remark. It is the employers who must take this seriously. There I would like to take in hand with Saila Quicklund, because out in municipalities and regions it is politicians who govern. There are Social Democrats, Moderates and others, and we must of course ensure that there are local conditions for taking full responsibility for health and safety at work. No one should have to get sick, be injured or die at work. That is why the government is raising the level of ambition, and that is why I have been able to present a new work environment strategy, which points out that I will shortly be setting up a work environment investigation, precisely to ensure that we get a regulatory framework in place that is adapted to today's work environment and working life and that has a much greater focus on gender equality.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-530	Madam President, I would like I have no doubt about the level of ambition of the Minister on these issues – I know that there is a genuine interest in them. What surprises us Moderates is that the problems have been well known for many years. I observed when the new health and safety strategy came and thought that we might have learned from past experience, because we must see it as a failure. But it's basically the same policy from the government. There are resource supplements and so on, but follow-up and analysis of why it does not work are completely lacking. It worries me. Not everything is an economic issue, but management and governance are needed. Although the Minister for Labour claims that it is the responsibility of employers, it is nevertheless the government and the Minister for Labour who have the ultimate responsibility for people having a good working environment. One should be able to come home from work after the end of the working day, and the women who are today the heroes of everyday life should feel a support. There is concern. They were tired before the pandemic, and this has, of course, worsened further. This is a gender equality issue, from a government that states that it is a gender equality party or a feminist government. There's 1.2 million out there, most women, screaming for help, but the government doesn't do anything. This is what surprises me. The resources have not been enough, and we have not had the right policy for this. The Moderates have proposals, and many of them have been copied by the government in the new work environment strategy. It is a direct copy in many parts, not all. We have seen the problem of these women in health care and care, and we have had proposals. The government doesn't.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-533	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund mentioned the Union's Vision in a previous speech. I welcome that. It is important that we listen to what the trade unions see, because it is they who represent their members. I myself have a long experience from this trade union, both based on working regionally in Norrbotten and Västerbotten and as Federal Chairman. I know how important it is that there is a well-functioning safety representative activity but also how important the Swedish Work Environment Authority is through its inspections. When the Swedish Work Environment Authority as a public authority comes out and is able to identify deficiencies, it gives power to all safety representatives and they work at a workplace to contribute to improvements. It can also help employers to take the necessary measures. What I want to do as Minister of Labour and who builds much on the experience I myself have is to ensure that we develop the health and safety acquis from the perspective of gender equality. I am very much looking forward to this investigation and I am happy to continue this debate. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mrs Quicklund for highlighting this important issue, and I welcome the commitment shown by the honourable Member. It is important that we have broad support for health and safety policy. This has not always been the case when the Moderates have been given the opportunity to develop it, but rather they have cut resources. But I think it bodes well for the future that we can cooperate more and focus more on good conditions, not least in the women-dominated professions.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-537	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that long-term unemployment does not get stuck at today's high levels. In 2020, the government provided funds for more unemployed people to get into work. In accordance with the budget bill, which applies from the turn of the year, more than SEK 100 billion has been added in 2021 to restart the economy, while long-term reforms will help solve societal problems. Overall, the reforms are estimated to bring the unemployment rate to just over 1.3 percentage points lower than if the proposals are not implemented. This represents about 75,000 more jobs. The investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. The employment agency is strengthened by SEK 1 billion to meet the increase in unemployment and to ensure an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. Ö ver 2 billion SEK is invested to increase the number of participants in labour market training, procured matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. The Government is working towards the introduction of start-up jobs for newly arrived and long-term unemployed in 2021, as proposed by the parties. Many unemployed people lack the skills needed to enter the labour market. At the same time, skills shortages exist in many important professions. More people need to replenish their skills or learn a lack of skills. The government continues to strive for more unemployed people with educational needs to study. Finally, I would like to say that it is a tough time now, but brighter times are coming. We are all needed in the labour market to build Sweden strongly.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-541	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its reply, although I am somewhat distressed by the answer to my question as to what measures the Government intends to take to ensure that long-term unemployment does not get stuck at today's high levels. We all know that, before the Corona crisis, foreign born and short-educated were dominated by the unemployed. In the current crisis, however, there has also been considerable unemployment among in terna tionals and those with upper secondary education. The development means that the problem of establishment is deepened while the need for a change for those who have now lost their jobs increases. During the pandemic, the unemployed have become 100,000 more. The unemployment figures are now the highest since 1997, and they are rising rapidly. Rapidly rising unemployment often leads to higher long-term unemployment when those who were already unemployed before the crisis end up in the back of the queue. 175 000 registered with the Employment Service today have been for over 12 months. That's 24,000 more than last year. Long-term unemployment reduces the chances of getting a new job. High long-term unemployment reduces labour market matching and slows the return to a more normal level of unemployment. What, then, is the government's response to this? Well, the Minister for Labour says in his reply that the government is working to introduce start-up jobs in 2021 in accordance with the parties' proposals. The Social Democratic Government's lack of policies for the long-term unemployed is nothing more than a huge betrayal. Although labour demand returns relatively rapidly after a crisis, it is far from certain that this will happen in the same sectors that are most affected now. This means that many employees need to switch to new jobs. In a crisis like this, the urgent challenge is to save businesses and jobs. But beyond the acute phase there are several challenges for which the government today seems to have no policy. Firstly, labour market matching is at risk of deteriorating. Many who have become unemployed during the crisis have characteristics that normally mean that they have relatively good chances of finding a new job. They are younger, native born and have upper secondary education. But structural change can help to ensure that their alternative labour markets and professions where their skills are viable are often also cut. Secondly, the transformation places great demands on the adaptability of workers. As this crisis affects many sectors at the same time, the challenges for the transition will be particularly great. Madam President, I would like The question remains: Is it the introduction of start-up jobs that is the government's great hope that long-term unemployment will not get stuck at these high levels?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-551	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Karlsson for this. In terms of start-up jobs, they are just one of many examples of the important efforts we are making right now. I would also like to start by saying that I share the picture of problems that has been highlighted here. We already had before the pandemic major challenges with the match – that those who do not have a job have completely different types of skills and qualifications than those that employers need. This means that even people in the middle of their working life who have a job also need to be able to switch to meet the needs of employers. This is therefore about ensuring that we have better opportunities to replenish new knowledge and skills through a full career, so that we can meet the new needs of our business community. Not least in the part of Sweden where Mattias Karlsson and I come from, there are huge investments and new investments that will also require the right skills to make use of the growth potential that lies there. It's about thousands of new jobs. This is incredibly exciting and important. This is part of the problem. What I see we need to do there is get more training in labour market policy and more job focus in education policy, so that we weave it together and benefit from the policy even better. There the government has done a great deal. But I also see that more work remains to be done. With regard to those people who are far from the labour market, I would also like to say that I see the same problem picture as the interpellete, that we have large groups of people who, even before the pandemic, had a tough time in the labour market. It's clear they're risking getting even further in the back of the line now. That is why it is so important that we are just implementing measures that ensure that long-term unemployment is not allowed to get stuck. Here we see the risk of increasing long-term unemployment. Very much will be about how we are able to repress the spread of the infection and get the vaccine in place so that we can start to ease the restrictions and in that way also get the jobs started. I would therefore like to add my voice to what is this picture of the problem. As far as government governance is concerned, we have done a great deal. We control through our authority Arbetsförmedlingen, where we have set clear goals that the proportion that goes to regular education must increase especially among those who lack upper secondary education or need to change to meet the skills needs of the labour market. We also aim to reduce the proportion of people enrolled without activity in the job and development guarantee and the job guarantee for young people, and especially those who lack upper secondary education. We have given a lot of different types of assignments that I can gladly return to in my next post. But this is about ensuring that people have the right education. We know that about one third of unemployed people lack upper secondary education. I usually say that upper secondary education itself is the entry ticket to the Swedish labour market. But I am very happy to come back to this in my next speech.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-558	Madam President, I would like On the contrary, despite the government's promise that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate, we already had the EU's fifth highest unemployment rate before the crisis. Sweden was also the only country where unemployment increased from autumn 2014 until the outbreak of the Corona crisis. Even before the Corona crisis, Sweden had one of the highest levels of unemployment in the EU. Long-term unemployment was record high and unemployment among immigrants was highest in the EU. At this point, unemployment is the highest in a quarter of a century. Youth unemployment is the highest in a hundred years. Long-term unemployment and unemployment among immigrants are also record high. Never before have the conditions for groups that are far from the labour market been as difficult even before a crisis struck. Despite the prolonged economic boom that prevailed before the crisis broke out, the government failed to break the great alienation and dependency of many people over a long period of time. However, the crisis measures taken in the pandemic are also inadequate. In his previous post, the Minister for Labour described that it was not just start-up jobs that were in the toolbox. But there are no proposals. There are no proposals that have landed at Parliament's table that aim to bring down the unemployment that we are now seeing. I must say that I am extremely surprised at how passively the government leaves the unemployed entirely to its own fate. This is about people who are not taken care of and who do not have a salary of their own. But it is also a question of a high level of unemployment which has consequences for our common well-being. So what policy is being pursued has consequences. And I find it extremely provocative that the government is not able to present any proposals that break the negative spiral we are in right now. The acute phase of the crisis response was about minimising the damage to businesses and employees, but for many this crisis will be far longer than the spread of the disease itself. That is why the government also needs to have the aim of combating the long-term negative consequences of the crisis. I would like to go as far as to say that unemployment is more due to social democracy than to the pandemic.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-563	Madam President, I would like That was a meagre statement here in conclusion. I would like to inform you that we are in the midst of a very serious pandemic which not only affects life and health but has also hit the economy and jobs very hard. I spoke to the Director-General of the ILO, who described that 500 million jobs have disappeared from the labour market around the world. Many people are affected by losing their job. Many of the efforts made by the government last year – and many of them were made in broad political agreement, which I welcome – were intended precisely to save jobs and businesses. Only through the reform of short-term work that was introduced, and which today includes somewhere around 600 000 people, have we been able to save many jobs in Sweden. I think, as I said, it was a somewhat meagre statement. I would also like to point out that one should be a little careful when looking at statistics. We have continued to have a high level of labour force participation – highest in Europe – and we have the highest level of employment in Europe. This does not mean that I am satisfied or think we should not do more; of course, every day of the week, we should fight to give the right conditions to those who have lost their job and to give good conditions to the companies we have around our country so that they can keep people in jobs and even start growing. The important thing here is, of course, that we can combat the pandemic and start to ease the restrictions again. I would also like to add to my previous speech, because I think this is an important opportunity for me to tell you about the important efforts we are making. In addition to what I mentioned earlier, we have given a lot of different special assignments to the Employment Service regarding target groups that are at risk of long-term unemployment. These include young people, people with disabilities who have reduced working capacity and those who are on sick leave. We have also given a special mandate to increase the transitions to regular studies. The employment agency will increase the number of instructions to apply for regular education. This applies to job seekers who are deemed to need training – where it is a prerequisite for the person to be able to enter the labour market, get a job and keep a job. It is particularly targeted at those who lack upper secondary education. In addition, we have increased the opportunities for job seekers to study for up to one year while maintaining financial compensation. This applies when it is justified for the person to be able to get a job. The government is therefore taking a lot of different types of measures. As I mentioned at the outset, we have also put forward a strong budget of more than 100 billion, which is estimated to provide some 75 000 jobs. In labour market policy it is 9 billion, with 2 billion extra for, among other things, matching services and labour market training, as well as introductory jobs and additional services. This is, of course, aimed both at those who are long-term unemployed and those who are at risk of long-term unemployment. I can also mention that, in April, we are presenting a new reform, which concerns intensive years for new arrivals within the framework of the establishment programme. Madam President, I would like So the government does a lot of things. Even so, I will never be satisfied.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-574	Madam President, I would like The rising unemployment rate is Sweden's biggest economic and social problem right now. Past crises have taught us that the negative effects on the labour market are likely to be long-lasting. Sweden faced the Corona crisis in a worse situation than the financial crisis, because we had a higher long-term unemployment even before the pandemic. If policies do not help to strengthen the unemployed with long periods of unemployment, the situation is likely to be cemented for the most vulnerable unemployed. A strong financial and monetary policy is, of course, necessary to increase the demand for labour, but that is not enough. I am convinced that several reforms need to be implemented to facilitate the establishment of those who were long-term unemployed even before the crisis and to support those who lost their jobs during the crisis to change. There is a need for better opportunities and clearer requirements for the short-skilled unemployed to participate in basic education and training. Reimbursement and grants should, among other things, be linked to requirements for participation in training activities. Sweden's treasury would have been SEK 42 billion stronger per year if Sweden had had the same development as the EU average in terms of unemployment. Due to the government's lack of labour market policies, the socio-economic costs of large long-term unemployment are at risk of being very high.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-577	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the very urgent question of how we ensure that people do not get stuck in long-term unemployment and how we break the very serious development we have in the Swedish labour market, Mattias Karlsson! This is the most serious crisis we have had in the labour market in modern times, as a result of the coronapndemine. If someone is watching this debate now and is unemployed – perhaps long-term unemployed – I would like to take this opportunity to say: "Don't give up, even if you have been looking for a job for a long time without results!" This also applies to those who are young and may not have found their first job yet. We have a tough situation in the Swedish labour market, but it is not over. You're needed! We are all needed in the labour market to build Sweden strongly. There are many vacancies to apply for, despite the pandemic and despite the fact that we are in these difficult times. There are, for example, health care, nurses and nurses, and in educational work, both primary school teachers and preschool teachers. It is available in IT work, as software and system developers, as well as in many other important professions, such as business vendors, cleaning and warehouse staff. The government has provided funds to greatly expand the number of study places, so if you have gone and thought about continuing to train yourself to a deficiency profession, this is the right time. We need you!
i-e9d2d4b537265833-580	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me how I view the fact that Sweden already before, as well as during, the covid-19 crisis had one of the highest levels of unemployment in the EU, the analysis I have made of the effectiveness and results of the Red Green Government's measures since 2014 to reduce Swedish unemployment and whether I intend to renew the promise that Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Jan Ericson has asked me what explanations I see that Sweden is one of the countries in the European Union that has managed the worst with unemployment during both economic boom and recession and what conclusions I draw from this. Edward Riedl has asked me whether I am satisfied with the government's efforts to reduce unemployment over the last six years and what measures I and the government have taken in concrete terms to reduce unemployment since the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate was set. Sofia Westergren has asked me whether the target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU is still valid, what proposals in the January agreement I believe are the most important ones to reduce unemployment and what proposals I intend to put forward to restore Sweden's position in the European unemployment league to at least number 12, which Sweden had when the Social Democrats took over power in 2014. The unemployment target worked during the last parliamentary term as a steering year for government policy. During this period, an economic policy was conducted that turned the government budget deficit into large surpluses, which laid the foundations for the necessary reforms and that Sweden was well equipped to deal with the economic consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. The outbreak of covid-19 has led to a global economic crisis, and unemployment has risen rapidly. Unemployment is not just a problem for those who lose their jobs, it is an issue that concerns us all. If we allow unemployment to persist, we risk both increasing long-term unemployment and weakening our common welfare. A person who becomes unemployed should therefore be given the opportunity to receive training and conversion and, if necessary, be able to receive support to find a new job. The government has taken historically strong measures to reduce the consequences of the pandemic for jobs and businesses and to ensure the safety of those who lose their jobs. In accordance with the budget proposal in force since the end of the year, over SEK 100 billion has been added to restart the economy, while long-term reforms will help solve societal problems. The investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. Arbetsförmedlingen is strengthened by SEK 1 billion to meet the rising unemployment rate and to ensure an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. In addition, more than SEK 2 billion will be invested to increase the number of participants in labour market training, tendered matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. Sweden has the highest participation rate in the EU and this has been maintained at a high level during the crisis. This is an important reason why unemployment in Sweden has increased in relation to many other countries. The OECD Employment Outlook 2020 shows that comparisons between countries of unemployment in the wake of the pandemic should be made with great caution as the crisis has affected the collection and calculation methods of labour market statistics. Sweden still has the highest employment rate in the EU aged 20-64. The government is closely monitoring developments in the labour market and, if necessary, is prepared to take further action.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-589	Madam President, I would like More than 60 000 intensive care nurses, 72 000 primary school teachers or 88 000 nurses could have been employed in welfare. Especially intensive care nurses had been needed in the last year. Had unemployment in Sweden only developed as the EU average during Stefan Lövven's time as Prime Minister, the cost of unemployment would have been SEK 42 billion lower per year. This is money that could, should and should have been spent on welfare. 中 Assessing myself at work, the Löfven One confirmed. Sweden now belongs to Europe's ironing class; only Italy, Greece, Spain and Lithuania have a higher unemployment rate than we do. The long-standing high – and increasing – Swedish unemployment is Sweden's biggest economic and social problem. As we heard earlier, the Corona crisis is only a small part of the explanation for this. In fact, Sweden had the lowest growth per person in the EU; before Löfven we were among the countries with the highest growth. And despite Lövven promise that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU in 2020, we already had the fifth highest unemployment rate in the EU before the crisis, Madam President. Sweden was also the only country where unemployment actually increased between autumn 2014, when the Government of Löfven took office, and that the Corona crisis broke out. Now Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark stands here and suddenly wants Stefan Löfven himself and no one else set the standards. Madam President, I would like If the unemployment problems had not been dealt with by the heels of the Social Democrats and the government after all, and the unemployment problems have not been explained away by any collection problems, as Eva Nordmark is now trying to do, the situation would of course have been quite different. On the consequences of the government's job failure for individuals, for well-being and for society at large, the Minister for Labour does not mention a word. The only thing Eva Nordmark repeats, regardless of the question, is that it gives billions to the Public Employment Service's administration. This is money that would have gone to combat the long-standing high Swedish unemployment. Then, in Parliament's pulpit and press conferences, you can wrongly claim that you are spending billions on unemployment. Moreover, this is money spent solely on managing unemployment – not on combating it. Madam President, I would like I am forced to repeat my question to Eva Nordmark. The promise and goal and the EU's lowest unemployment no longer apply. Are there any new promises and targets with regard to unemployment, whether or not they are related to the EU? Is there not even a target to be at the EU average level? Has the government given up all its goals and promises at all?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-597	Madam President, I would like In an interpellation debate in December, I reminded the Minister for Labour of the current Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's promise prior to the 2014 elections that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. In 2014, Sweden was 12 among the EU countries in terms of unemployment. At the end of 2019 we were in place 22 out of 28, despite the fact that the years 2014 – 2019 were characterised by a very strong boom. In 25 out of 28 countries, unemployment decreased between 2014 and 2019. Only in three countries did it increase. Sweden was the country across the EU where unemployment increased most between 2014 and 2019, according to figures from the EU Statistical Office Eurostat. In his response in December, the Minister blamed the pandemic, which I questioned. The figures I mentioned concerned the situation before the pandemic. After all, the fact that the pandemic has generally affected the labour market, despite all the crisis support, is a fact. New dramatic data came from Eurostat in January. It turned out then that in 2020 only four countries in the EU had less development in the labour market than Sweden. All other countries have thus been better able to cope with unemployment even during the pandemic. Already years ago, we warned Moderates that a government that fails in employment policy during a strong boom will have very little chance of doing anything positive when times get worse. We saw how it slowly but surely deteriorated year by year, despite the boom. Now we know that's just what happened. We can see that Sweden is one of the EU countries that has managed worst to keep unemployment down both during the previous boom and now during the pandemic. My question to the Minister was what explanations she sees that Sweden is one of the countries in the EU that has succeeded so much worse than other EU countries in holding down unemployment. Unfortunately, the Minister's answer does not say much. However, we are told, as I said, that the major unemployment target of 2014 was only a steering year for government policy. One can say that in that case it was a very bad steering year, because most things have gone in the wrong direction with unemployment since the government took office. Otherwise, the Minister blames the pandemic, which, as I have said, is a bad explanation because we were in so much trouble even before the pandemic. In addition, we have managed worse than almost everyone else even during the pandemic. The Minister also blames that EU statistics are not reliable, and that is a bit typical of today's government. When international statistics show that Sweden is in bad shape, the government's response is often that the statistics are not reliable. However, when statistics show that Sweden is doing well in some area, the government does not hesitate to send out large-scale press releases. The Minister also claims that we have the highest participation rate in the EU. And yes, with today's measure that it is enough to work one hour a week, it is clear that we are getting a high employment rate. But the measure is obviously completely misleading. We Moderates think that the reasonable measure of employment should be that you have an income on which you can earn a living. If we had such a measure instead, the Swedish employment rate would not be at all as impressive. Madam President, I would like A serious thing that actually shows how badly the Swedish government has handled labour market issues is that already in 2019 Sweden had higher unemployment than the EU average. This is something that has not happened before since Sweden joined the EU – not a single year has it been so before. During the reign of the Alliance, Sweden always had lower unemployment than the EU average. It is remarkable that Sweden's previous strong position in this area has collapsed during the current S-MP government. Madam President, I would like I still wonder why Sweden is one of the EU countries that has managed worst to reduce unemployment, both during the economic boom and during the pandemic, and why, for the first time since we joined the EU, we now have higher unemployment than the EU average. How could it go so wrong?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-611	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When I was 13 years old, I got my first summer job. That's when I worked in a small shop. I remember it because growing up in the country, as I am, I got to live with Grandma and Grandpa inside the city, and I had to bring a lunch box from there, so it was pretty big in a lot of ways that first job. It made me dream. I was reading, dreaming and browsing– I'm not going to advertise for any particular company– in a small catalogue to see what I wanted to buy, and it was a camera that I bought for the first money I made. When you get older you may not sit and browse those directories, or some of us still do. I still think it's fun to browse them. But pay is the way to have a roof over your head, to have food on the table, to make sure that the children get what they need and perhaps also a golden edge on life – a trip or something else when it is not pandemic times. The foundation in all societies is that people have a job to go to so that they can make a living and contribute. In the modern society that we have today, which I think most of us think is a good way to fix things, people's work is also the possibility of tax revenue, so that we can afford school, a good elderly care for our elderly, health care, defence and police. All that builds a good society is basically people's work. The fact that we humans have a job to go to in the morning means that we can actually build all this together. That is why it is important, as many of my colleagues have said, that all governments in a country that want to continue to build a good society understand that the most important thing to do is to ensure that people have a job to go to for their own livelihoods but also to ensure that there is money for the common. Based on this, it was gratifying in the 2014 election campaign that we finally had Social Democrats who really said that jobs are the most important thing. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, who was not Prime Minister at the time but party leader, said: Evaluate us at the jobs! That is what we are seeking a mandate for. Every political issue we will measure against how there will be more jobs with what we do. With these high ambitions, the Social Democrats won the government power almost seven years ago. Since then, we have managed the worst throughout the European Union. There is no country which, before the Corona, had been less successful in reducing unemployment. The global boom made it possible for all the countries of the European Union, except one, to reduce unemployment, and that was Sweden. And now the situation has worsened even more under the coronapndemine. I asked the Minister a question, Madam President, and she chose not to answer it. You might get to read the answer between the lines. I asked the Minister the following: is the Minister satisfied with the last six years of the government in combating unemployment, given that the worst has been achieved throughout the European Union? That's what the minister chooses not to answer. Should I interpret the answer, Madam President, as being very unhappy and ashamed to even comment on it?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-620	Madam President, I would like The result of the election promise that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment has instead been that the government has put Sweden in the corner of shame with high unemployment, even though it has just been booming. Sweden is now in the corner of shame together with countries such as Greece. I would like to develop a few things in the answer that Nordmark has given me. I read from the Minister's answer:, Sweden has the highest participation rate in the EU, and this has been maintained at a high level during the crisis. This is an important reason why unemployment in Sweden has increased in relation to many other countries. ..................................................... This is a picture of reality. All unemployed persons are included in the labour force participation rate. What it says is that in Sweden we have many who are able to work but who do not work and that this makes Sweden's unemployment high. Yes, Madam President, I think we should give the Minister for Labour the opportunity to develop his thesis. In fact, it should be that in Sweden we have many who are able to work, and then the country becomes productive. Labour force participation includes both the unemployed and those working. Instead of creating jobs, the Red-Green Government is chasing companies and capital out of Sweden in its eagerness to be the best in the environmental class. The small country in the north should wear the lead sweater in all classes of climate debate, and it must cost what it costs. Whether or not it contributes to global environmental work does not seem to play a big role. I have followed with dismay the reckless and unlawful handling of Preemraff in Lysekil, a company I have come into contact with in my professional life, and Lysekil is on the west coast. To completely ignore how the initiative would strengthen global climate action and develop the city's important employers, I find only one word for: symbolism policy. In Fplus you can read: No country will want to follow us if at the same time we undermine the economy. Then Sweden will never be a front country. If we want to make real use of the climate, we should instead stimulate production in Sweden, because it is more efficient and thus reduces CO2 emissions in countries that would otherwise have produced the same thing but with higher emissions. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Labour if she agrees with these allegations and sees that jobs fall outside Sweden's borders. Could there be a connection with Sweden's collapse in the unemployment ranking, as jobs, companies and capital have fled Sweden and are found in other European countries because of the government's environmental policy?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-628	Madam President, I would like We can start with the question of the lowest unemployment in the EU and how the government views this. I would like to emphasise what I said at the outset: during the last parliamentary term, the unemployment target served as a steering year for government policy. During this period, an economic policy was conducted that turned the deficit of the central government budget into large surpluses. We have benefited greatly from this, not least now when it comes to taking the necessary measures during the pandemic and the necessary reforms. The previous term of office seems rather distant now, given the situation on the labour market. However, the previous term of office reduced unemployment by over 11⁄2 percentage points, and youth unemployment fell by just over 5 percentage points. The number of employed persons increased by over 300 000 persons, of which 200 000 were born abroad. At the same time, the number of hours worked continuously increased. And the whole job growth came about in regular jobs, not through subsidised employment. Comparing statistics and unemployment is difficult in the midst of a pandemic – not least the OECD points to this – because people are not looking for jobs as usual. One might say that the OECD Employment Outlook raises the question that these comparisons need to be made with great caution. In addition, the crisis has affected the collection methods and calculation methods for the whole of these statistics. In the midst of a burning pandemic, when we looked at comparisons last year, we saw that unemployment was suddenly falling in some of the European countries. But it wasn't because new jobs were added, it was simply because people were exposed to lockdown. They could not get to the place where they seek employment and register as unemployed. So we need to be very careful when comparing this type of statistics, not least now in view of the pandemic. I would say that it is more fair to look at employment. It is always possible, I think, to question comparisons in different ways. But employment describes how many people of working age in the whole population are in work, and here Sweden is at the top. We have continued the highest employment rate in the EU – it is 80.4% – and is just ahead of Germany. If Sweden had had the same employment rate as the rest of the EU, 469 000 fewer Swedes would have had a job to go to. So let us continue to work to be at the top, I would say. Edward Riedl asks me if I'm happy. I would like to say that I am proud of the strong measures taken last year to combat the effects on businesses and on jobs. I am proud that we are taking many measures to prevent and try to break long-term unemployment. It is a very tough and serious situation on the Swedish labour market. It is also a very uncertain situation as a result of the pandemic. But we contribute resources. We provide resources to the Public Employment Service and to various types of efforts to strengthen people's ability to get closer to work, and we provide funding for education policy and more training places. These are very important contributions.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-636	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister acknowledges that high unemployment will lead to an increase in long-term unemployment and a weakening of our common welfare. I welcome this insight, but what concerns me is the government's inability to reduce unemployment. While high labour force participation is better than inactivity, it does not help us to finance well-being. Nor is it any comfort or help for individuals affected by unemployment. The unemployed must be able to move from unemployment to work, and that is where the government has failed for many, many years. Eva Nordmark here made a call to the unemployed: that they should not give up. No, I really hope they don't. For this government in general and its leader, Stefan Löfven, in particular, has demonstrably given up. The Minister referred to a series of budgetary efforts as the solution to the problem, but if money had been the problem, Sweden would have had the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, not the highest, Madam President. And when it comes to money for pure labour market policy, it is remarkable that the Minister sees it as a solution to unemployment. After all, the Employment Service returned SEK 9.6 billion last year, of which nearly SEK 6 billion was money intended to help the unemployed. And this has been done by Arbetsförmedlingen every single year since the start of the government's Löfven. Even before the pandemic, effective interventions such as traineeships and new start-up jobs had decreased over many years. And the inaction of labour market policies was widespread. The education obligation does not work, and only 10% of the target group actually participates in regular studies. Sweden has lost ground compared to the rest of Europe every year since 2014, as we have pointed out here. Nevertheless, the government must accept that the policy pursued is a failure. A different and effective policy is simply needed to tackle Sweden's high unemployment. Otherwise, as the Minister is forced to point out, long-term unemployment will persist and our common well-being will weaken. I should like to ask the Minister, together with my colleagues here, with the stubbornness of a fool, whether the government is prepared to change the direction of labour market policy? Or should we understand the Minister's statement on any additional measures such as the possibility that more money will be recorded in accounts in the State budget that will ultimately not be used? I would like an answer to that. Then I note what my colleague Jan Ericson said: one hour of activity a week is enough to count it as being in employment. That is, of course, untenable, Madam President. It is, of course, whether you support yourself that counts.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-645	Madam President, I would like We probably don't get any further answers to my main question, why Sweden has failed both in the economic boom and during a pandemic. But we can say that the Minister blames very much for the fact that statistics are uncertain and that Sweden cannot be compared with other countries. But then I have to ask the question: Was there uncertain statistics even for the period between 2014 and 2019? Was that statistics also substandard? In 2014, Sweden was in 12th place. In 2019 we were in 22nd place. In 25 out of 28 EU countries, unemployment fell between 2014 and 2019. In just three countries it increased, and in Sweden it increased most of all countries. So it was between 2014 and 2019. This cannot be blamed on uncertain statistics during the pandemic. These were statistics for the five years before the pandemic. What was the reason for that? I have followed several different debates today, both on infrastructure and unemployment and other social issues, and always when the government speaks, it is someone else's fault. If it is not the pandemic, it is the fault of the Alliance or Bildt government. The question is whether even the Fälldin government in 1976 is responsible for the social problems we have today. The statistics are wrong, or we hear that the unemployed cannot get to Arbetsförmedlingen to register as unemployed. But you do that digitally today, from home your own computer. What's the problem? Why should it not be possible to register as unemployed because of the pandemic? I don't understand. We hear, as Mats Green touched on, that the Swedish Public Employment Service will contribute EUR 9 billion this year to deal with the situation, while the Swedish Public Employment Service returned EUR 9.7 billion for last year. What's the point of adding a lot of money to Arbetsförmedlingen when they can't use it anyway? This whole conversation is getting really weird. The Minister then says that the government is fully prepared to do new things and take action if this proves necessary. Can there be any doubt whatsoever that it is really needed now, immediately and immediately? There can surely be no ambiguity at all on this point. This is not about doing it if it is necessary at some point; we have that situation right now. We have the highest unemployment rate in maybe 25 years today. If this does not cause the Minister to wake up and say that now we have to do something, what will make something happen? In fact, there are no proposals announced that can make any difference in this area. We are discussing crisis action in the Committee on Finance after crisis action. It is fortunate that the Moderates have got through so many things in these crisis packages to at least do something. From the government, it is passivity that applies. Every time the Moderates and other opposition parties have presented a new proposal to the Finance Committee, the government wakes up. Sometimes they present the same proposals in the morning before the meeting of the Finance Committee just to avoid losing in committee. It has a whole government office available, but it does not make any proposals either in the labour market or in crisis policy in general. It is we from the opposition who are allowed to push this forward, so it is very fortunate that we have such an active opposition. Where's the government?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-654	Madam President, I would like This debate is incredibly interesting. The Interpellation Instrument is a tool that allows members of parliament to ask questions to the government that the government then has the opportunity to answer. Now a number of members of the Riksdag have asked the Minister some questions, and the Minister has consistently chosen to talk about completely different things. She twists and turns but doesn't answer the questions. Madam President, I would like I asked my question in writing. That's how it works. We send questions in writing from the Riksdag to the Government so that the Government can prepare itself together with its officials and answer the Members of Parliament. The questions are therefore sent well in advance several weeks before. The minister has been able to read them. Officials in the Government Office have helped them to answer the questions. The question I put to the Minister, Madam President, was: is the Minister satisfied with the government's efforts to reduce unemployment over the last six years? The Minister replies to this that she is very proud of the proposals they have made over the past year – which my question does not concern, Madam President. The Minister is therefore very happy to answer the question if she is satisfied. The question is based on what I was trying to describe, namely that the foundation of the society in which we live is that people have a job to go to. It is about self-sufficiency and also about tax revenue for the common: to school, to health care, to care for the elderly and to everything else that most of us think is important and should exist. Madam President, I would like Sweden has managed worst over the years from the beginning of the government Löfven until the beginning of the pandemic. The pandemic makes it difficult to compare figures, which is why I did not ask the Minister about this, but about the years until the pandemic began. The Minister has not responded to that. In those years, Sweden was the worst in the whole of the European Union. It was one country that, during the global boom, increased unemployment, and it was Sweden. In all other countries, unemployment decreased during the global boom. This led other countries to build up economies and secure money for the common. We did not do that in Sweden. In this way, we were the worst equipped to enter this crisis, and the crisis has obviously made this worse. The basis for all that we care about is work, and that is what the government has done the worst. It does not even succeed in reducing unemployment in the global boom, but is increasing despite the fact that all the countries of the European Union were able to take advantage of the global boom. This makes Sweden worse than countries such as Greece, Italy and Spain. After six and a half years with this government, some countries are worse than Sweden, and they are located in southern Europe. It is not these countries that Sweden should compare itself to. This makes it less money for everything that we think is important. Mr Mats Green mentioned what it would mean if we had only had the same development as the average in the European Union. Then we could have hired 88 000 nurses. 88 000 people could have been employed into the welfare of that money. I would like the Minister to be able to answer if she is proud of the six years when Sweden was the worst in the Union.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-664	Madam President, I would like Bonus – malus means giving a bonus to electric cars at the time of purchase with a certain amount to allow other vehicles to be penalised by the same amount fixed times three, because the amount is payable for three years after purchase. We Moderates have realised that this is a system that is clearly flawed and needs to be scrapped. The fact that Sweden does this to an industry has consequences. Sweden's fleet of vehicles is not being renewed, but on our roads fewer new cars will be rolling. Punishment taxation is hitting a manufacturer in Gothenburg hard. More new cars are sold in our neighbouring countries, and Sweden is buying second hand cars, which means that the country is missing jobs and VAT revenues. Bonus – the Malus system knocks away the legs of sellers who sell handcrafted cars, motorhomes and horse trucks. These are vehicles that use their three-and-a-half-tonne total weight and can be driven on a regular driving licence with a B-qualification. The alternative for these groups is not to buy a small car or an electric car but a heavier car that avoids the penalty tax or a used car that has a few years on its back, then probably imported from one of our European neighbours. This, Madam President, affects jobs, and if we do not have jobs, unemployment increases. Before the pandemic struck a second time, I made a large number of company visits, and what entrepreneurs want is long-term decisions and less political clout. On the wish list is also a stable electricity supply. In Stenungsund we have a chemical industry that is a large employer and needs to have a secure electricity supply. Regrettably, power outages are causing re-starts by the chemical industry's factories. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Labour whether she believes that a penalty tax of SEK 80 000 for a single-person entrepreneur where his biggest investment is a work vehicle favours or discourages the work line. I would also like to give the Minister the opportunity to reflect on the entrepreneur's wish list of long-term and predictable policy decisions, stable electricity supply and reduced taxes. Does the Minister think that Sweden delivers or does not deliver this? Can it affect companies' willingness to stay in Sweden?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-669	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by answering Edward Riedl's question. I didn't have time for that in the last post because I talked too long. I am proud of the measures we have taken so far, but of course I am not satisfied. For me as Minister of Labour, of course, the focus is on jobs, and I share the picture that, as the interpellant highlighted in his introductory speech, his own work is the very foundation of freedom and independence. It is important for the individual, and it is important for our society. It is through work that we gain our own livelihood, freedom, community and the opportunity to develop through a full professional life. For me, it's absolutely crucial. That is why it is so important that we do everything we can to develop and improve labour market policies. An important part of this is the work we are currently doing on reforming the Employment Service. We need to make sure that the tools in the toolbox are even more effective and accurate and that people throughout our elongated country will receive the right support to get closer and to work. I would also like to highlight a different perspective, which I think we sometimes forget in the political debate. Labour market policy should help employers find the right skills. That is the very basis for growth and development in our country. The employers who now have large investments going on, who are investing, should have the skills to be able to really be at the top of the competition globally – internationally. For me, it's an important perspective. As we now reform the Public Employment Service, it must also be based on the needs of employers across our elongated country from a local and regional perspective. We should be able to equip people with the right efforts, such as training. That is why we are ensuring that people today can be assigned directly to regular education in a completely different way than before. There are also different types of labour market policy interventions, such as traineeships, additional services, matching services and labour market training. We also collaborate in labour market policy through the Employment Service with the companies that need to employ and training providers. I would also like to point out that, if we are to talk about structural measures, if we are to take these issues seriously and not just fall into statistics and numerically, the issue of increasing skills and qualifications is absolutely crucial, not least for those outside the labour force. It is a question of meeting the needs and needs of the labour market today. We know that too many unemployed people lack the skills needed to establish themselves and that low levels of education risk leading to long-term unemployment. The government is therefore still striving for more unemployed people with educational needs to choose regular studies or studies at folk high school while at the same time expanding the Knowledgelift. We also make it easier for the unemployed to study within the regular education system while maintaining remuneration. We have given more rights to unemployment benefits, and we have increased the levels of benefits. We have contributed funds to the unemployment funds. This is of course important for both the individual and society.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-677	Madam President, I would like Despite an unprecedented crisis in the labour market, the Minister for Labour has not left, nor is he planning to leave, a single bill to combat unemployment. To be honest, you leave the unemployed to their fate. All you do is talk about your billion dollar roll to administer unemployment, not fight it. If money had been the problem, Madam President, Sweden would have had the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, not the highest. Stefan Löfven and the government should also take the Corona crisis as revenue to do as much as possible, not as an excuse to do as little as possible, to combat unemployment. Let me conclude, Madam President, by giving Eva Nordmark's own party friend, the Social Democratic Municipal Council of Falkenberg Per Svensson. He writes that the failed state labour market policy has received far too little attention in the debate on exclusion, segregation and inequality. He continues that for the government there are only opportunities for improvement. Madam President, I would like I agree with every word of Eva Nordmark's party friend's judgment on the inaction, evasion and constant blame of her own government. I would like to repeat my question: why has the government not announced or put forward a single bill, a single proposal, which is about combating unemployment? It is unacceptable and untenable.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-681	Madam President, I would like We have been some who, since the 2014 elections, have seen how labour market developments have been steadily progressing. We have warned year after year in connection with various debates that developments are really serious. If a government fails to reduce unemployment in a boom, what will happen when times get worse? At the time we did not know that we had a pandemic going on, but now we see how serious it is to enter a serious situation of already high unemployment. I have to repeat my question because I still have not received an answer to it. What does the Minister think is the reason why Sweden has failed so badly? The Minister has not been a minister for very long, and before her there have been other ministers who have been responsible for the area. What does the Minister for Labour think it is because things have gone so badly? Sweden had the worst development in 2014 – 2019 of all countries in the EU, and Sweden is the fifth worst during the pandemic. I'm a little surprised when the Minister starts talking about us ignoring statistics and numbers. Does the Minister for Labour really mean that Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European Union, is engaged in numbers-fixing? Or who's doing it? We just tell them what they say, about the actual figures that exist – the figures that the Employment Service reports, the figures that the government reports in its own state budget and the figures that Eurostat collects. The Minister for Labour then says that the government is closely monitoring developments in the labour market and, if necessary, is prepared to take further action. What does the Minister think is needed to ensure that there is such a need to take further action? Is the situation not serious enough for the Minister and the current S-MP government?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-685	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking the Minister for a good debate – through the President, of course! I also reacted a little bit to the Minister saying that Eurostat is engaged in number-fixing. But I guess it was just some kind of misunderstanding, so I'm not going to prolong the debate with that. What is important and what we are talking about is comparing the countries of the European Union with each other. That is good, for then you can get an idea of how things are. It was actually Stefan Löfven who, before he became Prime Minister, wanted to compare Sweden with all countries in Europe. The aim was for Sweden to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. Since the Red-Greens gained the power of government, Sweden has been the worst of all countries throughout the European Union, and it is reasonable that the opposition should highlight it. If you want to be the best but at the same time have succeeded the worst, it is not unreasonable for it to be highlighted on the basis of official statistics. The problem is that this means that we get less money to do well. The social democrats have mantrast affluent before tax cuts, but that is not what this is all about. It is about ensuring that people have a job to go to, because people who work pay taxes, and people who pay taxes make sure that there is school, health care and care for the elderly. That is why this issue is so important, Madam President. However, it is quite unfair to blame the failure of the whole government on a single minister. I almost feel bad after this debate. It is clear that the Minister for Labour has a responsibility, but it is the failure of the whole government in the area of unemployment that is problematic. And there are better suggestions. Thank you for a good debate.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-692	Madam President, I would like I am concerned that the Minister for Labour points out that employment has increased by over 300 000 people and that 200 000 of them are born abroad. It is good for those people that they have employment so that they do not stay in bed, but it still costs the state money. Remember what my colleague Jan Ericson said – that in order for it to be counted as employment, it is enough to be running one hour a week. The concepts of employment and self-sufficiency must be kept separate. The heart should be warm but the head cold. If Sweden is to recover, we politicians must keep separate concern for the individual and what really strengthens the economy. Employment is a concern for the individual, and self-sufficiency strengthens the economy. My focus is self-sufficiency – that without subsidies you can handle roofs over your head and food on the table, preferably without subsidies. It gives net money to the state to create good welfare for, that is, it pays more money to the state than the state contributes to the employment of people. The employment described by the Minister for Labour is driving up the bnp but does not increase the revenue to the state and the tax collective to create good welfare for. Madam President, I would like I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to develop what the government has done to reduce unemployment in real terms. I am not interested in employment, but the focus is on real jobs that provide self-sufficiency and a net payment of tax to the state. I have also sent this question to the Minister for this debate. I would now like an answer from the Minister for Employment.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-699	Madam President, I would like It is stated here that the government is passive and does not put forward any proposals. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you of the historic efforts now being made in the budget, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the important work that is under way in reforming the Employment Service and developing labour market policies, but also to take care of the very important agreement that exists between the social partners, both trade unions and employers. I would also like to highlight the strengthening of unemployment insurance and the fact that we are investing in labour market policies throughout the country and training opportunities for future jobs. When it is highlighted that Sweden has succeeded the worst, it is important to say that it is not true. If we look at Eurostat and employment, we see that Sweden is at the top. In the latest quarterly survey available, the quarter three in 2020, we have continued the highest employment rate in the EU: 80.4 per cent, just above Germany. If Sweden had had the same employment rate as the rest of the EU, 469 000 people fewer would have had a job to go to, so let us continue to work to be at the top. Finally, I would like to say that the current vaccinations offer hope for this year. We have a very serious and uncertain situation. Much is, of course, about how we can repress the spread of infection and how effective we can be when it comes to vaccinations. The vaccine not only saves lives and health; it also saves jobs. Thank you for the debate.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-704	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me if I share the assessment made by many companies that changing fixed-term contracts from 24 to 12 months would lead to fewer jobs in the business sector and make employment difficult for companies with large seasonal variations. He has also asked me whether I intend to propose any changes in the duration of fixed-term employment. Lars Beckman has also asked me what the government is and I intend to take measures to reduce the sharp increase in youth unemployment, not least in Gävleborg. Finally, he has asked me what conclusions the government has drawn from the fact that unemployment in Sweden has gone in exactly the opposite direction in relation to the election promise on the EU's lowest unemployment rate in Sweden in 2020 and how the conclusions will affect my future measures to reduce unemployment. In addition, Kjell Jansson has asked me what concrete action plan I have for achieving the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate, which was a clear goal for the government, and what measures I intend to take to bring down youth unemployment more specifically. Over the past year, the social partners have negotiated proposals which, combined, can improve the adaptability of businesses and workers and increase the security of the labour market. The government welcomes the historic partnership agreement whereby labour law can become more flexible and the transition can be strengthened. The government will work for legislative proposals that can receive the widest possible support from the parties and which work throughout the labour market. Youth unemployment has increased markedly, and it is important that measures are taken to curb this negative trend. These measures should be targeted primarily at young people who are at risk of long-term unemployment, not least young people who do not have completed upper secondary education and should therefore, first and foremost, pursue it. The Government has commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to report how it works to increase the transitions to studies or study motivation among young people without completed upper secondary education and how it works with municipalities to make this possible. In the budget bill valid from the turn of the year, more than SEK 100 billion have been added in 2021 to restart the economy, while long-term reforms will help solve societal problems. Overall, the reforms are estimated to bring the unemployment rate to just over 1.3 percentage points lower than if the proposals are not implemented. This represents about 75,000 more jobs. The investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. Arbetsförmedlingen is strengthened by SEK 1 billion to meet the rising unemployment rate and to ensure an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. In addition, more than SEK 2 billion will be invested to increase the number of participants in labour market training, tendered matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. The government will continue to monitor developments in the labour market and, if necessary, is prepared to take further action.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-712	Madam President, I would like Let us call a shovel a shovel – that is, a genuine failure of this government in relation to Stefan Lövven's most important election promise: that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. As my colleagues have said in another interpellation debate, it has gone in the opposite direction. Even worse, Madam President, if we look at my constituency, Gävleborg. This interpellation is about the apparent unemployment in Gävleborg and the ostensible youth unemployment. The number of registered employees at the Employment Service in Gävle aged 18 to 24 has increased by 35 per cent. The number of long-term unemployed young people, who have been unemployed for more than six months, has increased by 32%. These are almost disastrous figures, Madam President. What has this government put its focus on? We who follow the social debate and have seen the government's commitment have been able to hear words such as free years, family weeks and increased unemployment, which the Minister himself read out here. She talks about the parties' agreement – there is the free year – at a cost of up to 17 000 million, i.e. 17 billion, as the parliamentary investigation service has calculated that the free year can cost. And, Madam President, that is not enough. The Minister is prepared to use EUR 60 000 million, i.e. EUR 60 billion, in the partnership agreement to which there is an embryo, in which the unemployment fund is to be taken over. So it is 60 billion plus 17 billion – 77 000 million. What if this government had shown the same commitment to pursuing an active industrial policy? What if this government had shown the same commitment as our neighbours and supported the industries that employ the most young people? I'm thinking about the restaurant business. I think every day in Gävle about if the minister passes the restaurants where you stand and pat your pots in desperation over the lack of support. I believe, based on my knowledge of Gävleborg, that we unfortunately have a huge wave of bankruptcy ahead of us. You have now taken the last krona, you have mortgaged the house over the pledge, you have gone in personal bail – you do everything to save your company, but the subsidies do not reach out. I have therefore asked the Minister about fixed-term contracts, for example: does the Minister think that making fixed-term contracts more or less difficult will lead to more jobs? This means that young people do not get a foothold in the labour market and must not show what they can. It would be interesting to hear the Minister's answer. Does the minister think there will be more or fewer jobs? When it comes to the effects on equilibrium unemployment and employment, I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to produce a report on this. This is an increase in equilibrium unemployment of about 40 000 people, thanks to the government's increase in unemployment benefit. So there will be 40 000 more unemployed just because the government has put its focus on higher benefits, higher benefits and higher benefits. I respect this; it is the DNA of the Social Democrats. It's an order from their core picker: Raise our contributions! But in this interpellation debate and for the Moderates, the starting point is, of course, that more people should get into work. We're going to have increased entrepreneurship and more jobs. We could have heard a little humility from the Minister for Labour. What can the government do differently to push back unemployment in Sweden?
i-RfYCuB4NEGtJk7BpPtJCTf	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark! In my debate with the Minister for Labour, I thought of taking up some experience of what it looks like out there from my previous life as an entrepreneur for 26 years. There is a lot of discussion about creating jobs through grants and systems. This is partly the case, but most of it is that companies create jobs and have room to hire people. In the 2014 election campaign, Stefan Löfven, who has appeared here this evening, said that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. I guess it's been like that. Right now we are in place 23 out of 28 Member States. That is almost the corner of shame, I would say, given that, after the financial crisis, we have had a boom in principle for ten years. It's one of the longest booms we've had in this country. The companies have gone like the train, hugely good. What is also sad today is that we have so much unemployment among graduates. Higher education graduates don't get jobs. This has never been the case in Sweden after the war, but this is the case right now. It's serious, I think. Madam President, I would like The business climate in Sweden has deteriorated every year since 2014 when the government Löfven to go on, according to the Swedish Enterprise Survey. It is also a signal that something is not working. We also have the highest unemployment rate in Sweden in 100 years. Around 50% of young people under the age of 25 are unemployed. I have a boy who's 21 years old myself. I'm very glad he has a job, and I told him that this morning at the latest. This is worrying. There is a great risk that many will end up in alienation and drugs. It is easy to end up there for young people today, and that is uneasy. The drugs are everywhere, unfortunately, not only in Djursholm, as has been said. The Government answers me that Arbetsförmedlingen receives 1 billion in addition. This money could have been better spent because the Public Employment Service makes surpluses every year. In addition, only last year, the Swedish Public Employment Service received serious criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office for its inefficient operations. It's in parts dysfunctional, I'd say. Do you know how many times I was called by Arbetsförmedlingen during my 26 years? Zero times, Madam President. The interest in creating jobs for people was no greater than that. Sweden is a fantastic country with hugely talented companies. The export industry is a world leader, I would argue, and pulls in 52% of bnp; that's fantastic! The export industry is the backbone of Sweden's welfare. In addition, there are small and medium-sized enterprises, and there we have the key to why we have so much unemployment in Sweden. Small businesses do not want to expand. Why is that, Madam President? Because the regulations are too complicated. And if you have more than ten employees, there will be a new regulatory framework. I will come back to this in my next speech.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-731	Madam President, I would like We did not have much time to touch on this issue of youth unemployment in the previous debate. I see it as perhaps the most serious effect of the pandemic. We know that very many young people who have graduated from high school do not get a job, and we also know that many graduates in spring 2020 are still unemployed and do not get a job. I've seen it myself on my own daughter, who studied law. She had been invited to a number of interviews, and it looked very hopeful. But then they ironed it all out, and she didn't get a job. Since then, however, it has been resolved, but many of her friends still go unemployed with a recent law degree. Soon the next litter of newly graduated lawyers will enter the labour market, and the risk is that they will end up in the same position. Those who graduated last year will then end up in line, because then there are those who have a fresher degree. Not only should we talk about those young people who are far from the labour market and who lack education, but we also need to think about how we ensure that all these young people, for whom we have invested so much money in academic education, will also enter the labour market. These youths are now often looking for other jobs instead of having something to earn a living on. It is often about jobs in the restaurant and hospitality industry. That nutrition is now also on your knees. Last Friday we had a large digital meeting with restaurant entrepreneurs and the tourism industry in Borås. Seven members of Parliament took part. Then we got a very dark picture of the situation in the tourism industry. Not least, one complains that the government is giving so many unclear and conflicting answers, so that companies soon do not know what to do. As a result, they have no faith in the future today. Sometimes they get rid of staff just in case, because they don't know what to do. If the government had been a little clearer and had a little clearer in the decisions, so that they were not so hopeful and contradictory, we would surely have had more people in employment in these industries. I will return to the question that I concluded in my last debate, which is also included in the response to this interpellation, where it is said that the government is closely monitoring developments in the labour market and is prepared to take further action if necessary. I still think it's weird. The need for additional measures has never been greater in Sweden in modern times than they are now. We've never had such a serious situation before. What exactly is needed? I did not get an answer to that in the closing speech of the last debate, but I ask the question again because the same wording is also included in this interpellation response. What does the Minister think should be required to take further action? There has not been a single government bill announced to strengthen the labour market! While the government is not making a single proposal, the Moderates as the leading opposition party have developed a comprehensive programme in terms of both integration and reducing unemployment. We are doing this in opposition, but an entire government office cannot present a single bill! I find it extremely remarkable. Again, Minister: What is the need that should exist before you can do more?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-739	Madam President, I would like I've grown up in a business family. I used to be a truck driver. My first job was to make coffee at the Gothenburg-Posten. I remember when you got that little payoff. They had done the right thing and got their first salary. I heard a suggestion from another party that it was important that students could also be credited unemployment benefit. If you studied, you'd get the right job right away. I think it's very strange. Just as my colleague Ericson said here, a newly trained lawyer cannot be sure to get a legal job right away, but it may be another job. When I went to college and thought I was going to be an accountant, I was a cheese pot in Varbergs torg. I believe that the possibility of taking the jobs that exist is more important than being limited to certain jobs that have been trained. The green industries can't get their hands on labor. They don't really know how to do it. Especially now that the countries have closed their borders because of the coronapandemine, they do not really know if they will find someone who wants to muck kostall, plant spruce forest or do other work that actually has to be done. It must be made clearer that jobs need labour – it should not be about workers who need work. Somewhere here Sweden has gone wrong. When the Social Democraticly led government took office, Sweden had a place 12. The Minister for Labour told us that Löfven had promised that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate and that it was a steering year. Then one might wonder: When did this steering year go off? It's gone the wrong way. A steering oar should still steer and set a course, right? We are now in place 23 of the EU's 28 countries, as my colleague Kjell said. Instead, the focus is now on free years and family week. When the Alliance had government power, the tax on labour was reduced, which led to more people being included in work. We had a work line that included more people who contributed to the state, to the tax community and to create good welfare. The revenue of the state was increased even though taxes were reduced. The government has landed in the – sorry, Madam President – stupid plastic bag tax in green tax exchange. It has turned out that it only withdraws one tenth of the forecast revenue. My question to the Minister for Labour is: how are we going to fix the steering oar so that we can steer in the right direction and bring down unemployment instead of raising it?
i-e9d2d4b537265833-745	Madam President, I would like I think we have sorted out this issue during the previous interpellation debate. We had the unemployment target as a policy steering year during the last parliamentary term. But this is a new term of office, and what we are focusing on now is to combat the serious effects that the coronapandemy has had on the labour market. We have the most serious situation on the Swedish labour market in modern times. I would like to welcome Kjell Jansson's important contribution. It is very important that we have a business that works well and has good opportunities to grow, to develop and to be competitive. Some examples of measures taken during the pandemic, often in broad political agreement – I think this is crucial for us to be able to work our way through the crisis – are turnover support to individual traders, conversion aid to companies that have been reduced in turnover, short-term support, increased state responsibility for sick pay costs, deferred tax payments and government loan guarantee for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to mention temporary reductions in social security contributions and social security contributions and temporary discounts for rental costs in vulnerable sectors. The government's crisis measures have produced results and saved Swedish jobs, and they have made a big difference, not least when it comes to short-term lay-off. Some 600 000 employees are currently covered by that reform. This means that hundreds of thousands of Swedes have escaped the risk of losing their job. Now that the spread of infection is increasing again, this reform is in place to be able to be put in place if we have a tough situation again. There are still a number of light points. The Swedish economy recovered stronger than expected in the autumn, and these measures have contributed to this. This means that the increase in unemployment has slowed down and that the unemployment forecast has been revised downwards to varying degrees by both the government and the Institute of Economic Development and Employment, compared with previous assessments. Lars Beckman asks me how I view the changes in fixed-term contracts. It is perhaps fortunate that the hour is late and that not many people are watching this debate, because I am quite convinced that the parties who have concluded the important partnership agreement, namely the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK, IF Metall and Kommunal, would turn strongly against the description that the interpellant here gives that this would be about a free year. It hardly does. The Parties Agreement implies changes in labour law. It is about helping to create better conditions for transition through a full career and about student funding. The reforms we are currently investigating – I set up three investigations in January – will mean increased flexibility, increased security and strengthened adaptability and competitiveness for our country as a whole. This is an agreement which benefits both employers and employees, and I absolutely support it.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-751	Madam President, I would like I hope that many people will see this and previous interpellation debates, and I would urge everyone to both see the debate and read the Minutes. Who is it that calls this free year a free year? Yes, it's Transport. I understand that the Minister for Labour does not read the paper Work, but the article is on Arbete.se, so just read inside. It is called the opportunity to study with 80 percent of the salary for a free year light. I guess the minister's going to have to start reading the paper Work. I usually read it myself, because there is a lot of good information there. It was the Minister who addressed the agreement of the parties in his reply. But we have not heard a sound about the 60 000 million that the parties demand from the government – 60 billion. In her next speech, could the Minister say whether she is prepared to put EUR 60 000 million on the table to get this agreement in place? Is the Minister prepared to put 17 000 million, 17 billion, on the table for the free-air light cost? My interpellation is about unemployment. But I understand the minister doesn't want to talk about it. I have full respect for the fact that the Minister does not want to talk about the government's greatest failure. There is probably no one who has not gone out and warned of the consequences of the ostensible youth unemployment, but the government is in hand. I recognise the actions the Minister lists. These are the measures for which the Moderates in the Committee on Finance have made so-called announcements and formed majorities. We have almost dragged the government to the table in order to come up with concrete proposals. You've been and you're passive. You're reactive instead of proactive. The consequences of this have to be paid for when young people do not enter the labour market and those entrepreneurs who now feel genuinely betrayed. Maybe the latter is the worst. This can be about an entrepreneur in Sandviken where not only he himself but the whole family has run for the restaurant, and so the support does not reach out. What kind of signal does it send to Sweden's small businesses? What kind of signal does it send when the government breaks the social contract? Entrepreneurs see how other states support their business and small businesses. Then you also dare to believe that you can hire as soon as it turns around. Sooner or later, we'll get out of this crisis. Sweden was in a genuine case of unemployment even before the pandemic. Why is that? Well, I can take those words in my mouth: family week – 30,000 million will be used to give people increased leave, leave for 17,000 million and increased unemployment benefit. Surely there is no contribution this government has not increased. It is clear that this has consequences for the willingness to look for a job and take a job. Before the pandemic, it was not an employer I visited in Gävleborg who said: Where are all unemployed? I read in the newspaper about unemployment, but where are they? I can't get personnel to the counter. Give me one example of something the government is doing to reduce youth unemployment!
i-e9d2d4b537265833-760	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour is addressing covid. We cannot blame it on the government, because it comes from China. The Asians are responsible for their poor husbandry, hence this virus. In terms of dealing with this, the Moderates with Elisabeth Svantesson at the head have been the driving force in the Finance Committee, and there has been a broad consensus on an action plan, as the Government says. So far it's praiseworthy. The problem is that aid is paid out too late, especially to the restaurant owners. Many of them are at the bottom now, struggling day and night to survive. Here the government should do more and speed up the payments. The checks can be carried out afterwards, as in other EU countries. Now it is important to get the money out quickly, and then you can check if someone has cheated. So far, the controls have shown that 94% have done the right thing and 6% have cheated. However, my speech does not only cover covid but goes further than that. Madam President, I would like The problem is that too few small businesses want to get bigger. Why is that? Well, when the companies have more than ten employees, there will be completely new demands. There is responsibility for sickness pay for all companies, but let me take an example. A good friend of mine who runs a company has two employees who go up to the mountains. One breaks his leg while the other comes home healthy. Now he's with the fractured bones gone for months. My business friend will first pay sick pay for two weeks, and then he'll be the rehabilitation manager for him. It should be medical care, not the entrepreneur. He's supposed to take in jobs and make money so he can hire more, not rehabilitate his staff. That responsibility must lie with someone else. I think it's wrong that it's on the entrepreneurs. We have a work environment in Sweden that sometimes behaves arrogantly and rudely towards entrepreneurs. I have several examples of this, but I am not going to bring them up here tonight. It is serious when authorities do not show respect for entrepreneurs and other people. It's scary. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Work Environment Authority's last decree is that entrepreneurs should take stock of whether their employees have had covid. Is it reasonable for entrepreneurs to do that? It should be other bodies that do this, most appropriate health care. We must also have a society with respect for the little man on the part of the authorities. It doesn't always exist. I met it myself many times when I was an entrepreneur. Entrepreneurship is based on risking capital to grow. It is a question of getting small businesses to build capital in order to grow. It is also important to lift a lot of rules away from them. It is one thing that Volvo has sick pay and rehabilitation responsibilities, because they have large HR departments. But it does not have small companies with under 10 or 20 employees. This is important to include for the future. When covid is over, Sweden will explode again by our skills and our ability to lift us. I think it's gonna be okay. But it's a matter of making sure people get jobs. Most of all, I'm worried about the kids. It's troubling.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-771	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my previous speech that the Moderates have presented a rather comprehensive programme both for integration and for reducing exclusion and for bringing down unemployment and getting more people to work. But the focus must also be on promoting the job creators and, above all, on not disadvantaging them. I think that, in the light of every government decision, at the moment that we have today, the government should ask itself how the decision it intends to take on a particular issue affects entrepreneurship and jobs. If you had asked yourself that question in recent years, quite a few decisions would probably never have been taken. I am thinking of the electronics tax, which has meant that we have now killed a number of electronics stores in Sweden. Instead, we import goods directly from abroad to avoid the tax. I am thinking of the proposal for a clothing tax. No one would have thought that someone would make such a strange suggestion as to tax a certain number of pounds of clothing. It will have exactly the same effect, that our clothing stores are being beaten to death and that we are importing clothes from abroad to avoid the tax. The young people who work in electronics stores and clothing stores lose their jobs, and instead we import the goods from abroad. There are many such examples. I think the government should really think, properly, about what you really do through your decisions to kill our companies and damage our jobs. I should like to finish by saying that the Minister clearly does not see the situation as serious enough to put forward new proposals for measures to reduce unemployment. I can see that the Moderates have a completely different view of this. Thank you for the debate.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-776	Madam President, I would like Before the covid struck, I made a lot of company visits. Matching problems are obvious. We have many people who need a job, and we have many companies that need people to hire. On the company visits that I was on in my municipality of Stenungsund, I saw that there was a need for scaffolding builders, carpet builders, welders, bus drivers, masons, truck drivers and many more. I am concerned when the government is discussing employment. We remember Ericson's speech on employment – that one hour of activity a week is enough. It really has nothing to do with work. An hour a week is absolutely nothing. It's not even worth having a measure for it. The Minister for Labour was pleased and proud of the labour force participation. Workers are people of working age, whether they have a job or not. The unemployed are therefore included in the labour force participation rate, and students seeking employment are also included in this measure. We have a group that is far from working, and there are many foreign born. That includes a lot of women. Given that it was International Women's Day on Monday, I wonder: What is the Minister for Labour doing to catch these women and include them in the work line? Thank you very much for the debate.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-781	Madam President, I would like In the case of women born abroad, it is extremely important that we can contribute various types of actions and measures that support them and ensure that their level of employment increases. It is for this reason, among other reasons, that we will now be introducing in April the so-called intensive year. With regard to labour market participation in particular, I would like to inform Sofia Westergren that this spring, in connection with the pandemic, we saw a serious decline in female labour force participation. About 60 000 women suddenly left the labour force. Then I was very worried, because if you are not at the disposal of the labour market you will end up further away. Thank God these women came back. In this way, you participate in the labour force, you are looking for active work and we can help provide support for these women to get into work. That is why it is so vitally important to look for a job and that there is a high level of labour force participation. As a result, unemployment appears to be higher, precisely because many people are looking for work – more than in other countries. We are happy to come back to that discussion at a later date. I agree with Kjell Jansson that the future is bright. My greatest concern, like that of the interpellier, is that of young people and that they will be away from the labour market for a long time. We know from past experience that young people do better than older people in that they often have short periods of unemployment. When the economy returns, it is often the young who return to work the fastest. However, there is no doubt that in this pandemic those who were already in a vulnerable position have been hit very hard. We know that young people often have temporary jobs. It is also in the industries that have been hit hard in the last year that we have seen a decline in jobs. These include the tourism industry and trade. Young people who do not have completed upper secondary education are at greater risk of long-term unemployment. Therefore, they should primarily complete their upper secondary education. It is for this reason that we in the government are investing so much and doing so many measures to ensure that young people pass on to regular education and complete their upper secondary education. It is the actual entry ticket to the Swedish labour market. As I mentioned earlier, the Public Employment Service has been given a special mandate for young people in this year's regulatory letter. That is the government's governance of the agency. The Employment Service will report how they work to increase transitions to studies or study motivations, especially among young people who have not completed their upper secondary education. The Employment Service will also report on how they otherwise work with labour market policies for young people at risk of long-term unemployment. I would like to emphasise that this can also be about well-educated young people, as Jan Ericson was earlier on, such as lawyers. It is about identifying those young people who may end up in long-term unemployment and ensuring that they receive measures that bring them to work or bring them closer to work. The Government has commissioned several authorities to analyse and develop nationally coordinated support for young people who are neither working nor studying. It is these young people that I think we need to focus most on, because it is they who have the toughest. We have temporarily reduced the employer's contribution for those aged 18 or over but not 23 years. These are several of the measures taken by the government.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-788	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the debate. I went to the old school and I want to give the government a fifth grade. There is probably no government in modern times that has raised as many contributions as this government. The levels of supply aid have been increased, the levels of the unemployment fund increased and the qualification into the unemployment fund changed. You spend time and commitment on family week, as we saw here a few weeks ago. In spite of the fact that long-term unemployment is falling among Sweden's young people and that long-term unemployment in Gävle alone has increased by 32 per cent, there is a government that intends to devote its resources and commitment to introducing a family week, at a cost of 30 000 million. The only thing that can top this is the free year of 17 billion, which Transport has been raging against recently. It is clear that there are consequences that we have a government that does not focus on ensuring that we get more jobs. If the focus is on increasing subsidies and making it easier to be unemployed, it is clear that unemployment is running out. It's a purely political order. I note that the government wants to use statistics in a way when it is considered appropriate. But in another way, when statistics are poor, statistics are wrong. That is not the way to run a country, Madam President. You have to be consistent. Either you believe in statistics that are comparable to other countries, or you do not believe in statistics that are comparable to other countries. This government has failed miserably. And the price is paid by the young people in my constituency where youth unemployment is running out. I would like to know one concrete thing that the Minister believes will lead to more young people coming to work in Gävleborg.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-794	Madam President, I would like Many reforms are needed to turn the labour market in Sweden. We need lower taxes, especially on capital, so that there is more movement. There is also a need to free up more capital for investments in companies, including small companies. I'm not so worried about the export companies because they have such large cash registers. They have huge revenue years from year to year. I want small businesses to grow into medium-sized enterprises. Then reform is needed. There must also be exceptions in the case of employees, so that you can get rid of people who do not work. If in a small company with ten employees there are two who do not work, it is 20 percent of the workforce that is dysfunctional. Then you have to make exceptions and remove people. Now it has become easier to negotiate with the trade unions. Nevertheless, I think that this is important if we want to make businesses grow. When it comes to a reformed labour market, companies should not be running boys for the state and doing rehabilitation of employed personnel who have been in the mountains and skied. Companies should work to earn money, deliver taxes and ensure that you have capital to be able to recruit people and above all to create jobs. I think there are conditions for that. I am still a big optimist, even though I am in opposition, and I believe in Sweden. I love old Sweden. Many thanks for the debate.
i-e9d2d4b537265833-798	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate. I would like to take this opportunity to say that this evening I have noted that the Moderates are accusing the government of being passive in the face of increasing unemployment, and that is not true. With the historic investments we make of over SEK 100 billion in this budget, which will contribute to about 75 000 more jobs, we make a big difference. We have also strengthened the unemployment fund. We are investing in labour market policies throughout the country. And we create training opportunities for the future job so that we also solve the match. This will remain an important focus for the future. That is the policy we stand for. As Lars Beckman points out, the Moderates have instead chosen to conduct a policy of cutting down on the unemployment fund. But I must say that the labour market does not improve by creating less security for employees, because it will affect the important adaptability that we need in the Swedish labour market in order to be competitive. Deteriorating economic security does not make the virus go away either. I have given a long list of examples of the measures taken by the government. I would also like to add to the important local work and the effort we have made at Dua, the Delegation for Youth and Newcomers to work. This is an assignment extended until 31 December 2021. We have also made an additional contribution here. Finally, it is a tough time now. But brighter times will come. I believe, like Kjell Jansson, that the future is bright. Our experiences from past crises show that young people are often among those who are first affected but are also among those who often come back to work when developments turn around. Young people are needed in the labour market. And we're all needed.
