ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e28	Magnar Lund Bergo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e31	On behalf of the representatives of Ågot Valle, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose measures to prevent people from being recruited to depend on automated games.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e36	Karl-Anton Swensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e39	On behalf of the Coastal Party, I would like to propose Norwegian accession to the Western Nordic Council to improve the interface between the Western Nordic nations and to strengthen the Council as a body for cooperation on the management of the major natural resources in the North Atlantic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e44	Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e47	On behalf of the representative Torbjørn Andersen and myself, I propose to stop all attempts and designs of private residence of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e52	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e75	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Valgerd Svarstad Haugland State Council Lars Sponheim State Council Svein Ludvigsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e94	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The Deltakers Act is one of the bottom boards of the Norwegian fisheries policy. In short, the law states that fishermen own the fishing fleet, they are the owners of the fleet and thus also a large part of the fishing resources. I do not think the importance of that law can be overestimated in terms of history and fisheries policy. But at the same time, it's interesting to see what's going to happen to the law in the future. It has now come to the conclusion that the Ownership Committee will assess the law and the requirement for ownership interests. And it's no secret that the Right in its program wants to remove this Act of Attendance, while the Left and Christian People's Party together with the Center Party in many contexts has been guarding this important law. Now the Minister for Fisheries has also created some uncertainty in the industry when he has gone out and signaled that the law should be liberalised. Is there an attitude that reflects the views of the entire Government? And will the Minister for Fisheries's signals be followed up in the ownership message?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e105	It is true that the Act of Participation is a central piece of legislation linked to this with a fishing gear fleet. It is also right that we in the Sem Declaration have made it quite clear – and that is why I and the Government are managing the fisheries policy – that a fishing fleet should be the rule in the future. So the previous government appointed a commission of ownership, which investigates aspects of ownership of the fishing fleet: I haven't seen reason to limit the assessments that those people make. When the suspension comes in during the summer, the Government will go into it and look at which of the proposals they had to make that might be relevant. But it is clear from the Sem-Declaration that the starting point is still a fishing rage fleet, so it should not have created any uncertainty about. However, I do not think there is any reason to give signals to a wide-ranging committee on the limitation of the mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e112	I thank you for your answer. My supplementary question goes to another State Council, namely the State Council of Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, the Christian People's Party leader. It is true that the Sem declaration seems to ring around the law of participants. Nevertheless, the Fisheries Minister’s opinions have created uncertainty in the fisheries environment about how to manage this legislation in the future. The Christian People's Party programme says that the law of participation should not be eroded. Can the leader of the Christian People's Party guarantee that the law of participation will not be eroded, by the fact that the ownership of the fishermen in the case of fishing vessels does not go below 50 pst, as the rule is today, and not down to, for example, 50 pst. 34 pst.? It would, if that happened, give the situation that the Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party, has warned against earlier, namely that the fishing industry can go in with capital and buy fishing vessels and help us to lose the diversity of Norwegian fisheries policy, while also creating a breeding ground for monopolising the ownership of fishing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e119	The President finds reason to recall that the Council of State is here on behalf of his department, and chooses whether to go in and answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e122	I have no problem answering the question, because it is very clear in the Sem Declaration, which was also stated by the Council of State Ludvigsen. Besides that, I will not comment on it, now it is Ludvigsen who is handling this matter. The representative Arnstad knows that when one sits in government, there are three parties that are going to be a few about a policy, but in this area, and according to what is in the Sem statement, I'm not afraid either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e127	There will be follow-up questions – Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e130	I want to ask the Minister for Fisheries follow-up questions. When he says that one should mainly rely on fishing grounds fleet, I will ask this follow-up question: how will it be possible, when one knows that a fishing boat today costs between 50 and 150 million. kr, and when one has the tax and tax rules that one today has in the fishing industry, with write-off rules that are hopeless? When there is no possibility of setting aside tax-free funds, how will the Minister for Fisheries keep up with the desire to have a fishing land fleet? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e138	Let me start by saying that it's an old tradition that we mainly have a fishing nest fleet. However, the structure and ownership of vessels vary from one group to another. In the sea fishing fleet, you have a different ownership structure than you have in the coastal fleet. When the Ownership Committee now investigates issues related to the need for fleet renewal, the need for external capital and capacity adjustment and the need for stable raw material supply by the rural industry, I will not go out and draw conclusions until the sample that has been cut down has done its job. But it is quite clear in the Sem statement that we must combine the consideration of fishing gear fleet with a time-consuming ownership structure, and that a fishing gear fleet is the bearer of the ownership of the fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e145	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e148	Just this with capital formation, I think, is interesting to follow up, because the more unit quotas are being introduced into increasingly large parts of the coastal fleet as well. We see parts of the fishing are being closed, as has been done for Group II, with reduced quotas and closure – a restriction on access for Group II. The Minister for Fisheries is calling for a reduction in universal service obligations. Major parts of Norwegian fisheries policy are changing with the new government, which will lead to larger units, fewer fishermen, more centralisation within the industry and also the need for capital. In a situation where the Minister of Fisheries orders us to have a fishing trip fleet, the Government on the other hand cuts the appropriations for the SND, which is to be included and financed. You give general tax relief. And then we see that in larger and larger parts of the fish, it becomes fictional schemes, where it seems to look like we have a fishing nest fleet, but where there are backers with capital behind it. This is an unfortunate development, because it links those who enter the industry to some fish farms and makes them more or less housekeepers. What does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do to counteract such developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e153	The most important thing in the Norwegian fishing industry now is to ensure good profitability, and that is to ensure recruitment, in order to trigger the high value creation potential associated with the marine sector. Without a profitability on board the fleet, which makes young people find it attractive to continue fishing as an important economic pathway, we have lost. Without recruiting to ensure the transfer of competence from sea to land, to new industries, we will fail. But that's essentially the profitability. In this context, I have better faith that profitability and tax rules that can generate equity are a better tool than anything else. But it is stated that a fishing rage fleet should also continue to be the support beam, based on the Sem-Declaration on which the Government stands, and I will manage it on that basis. In this case, we have to take inwards that changing governments have not strictly managed it. I have taken hold of it, precisely on the basis of the desire to comply with the legislation that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e164	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e167	We now see a crisis in the coastal community of Hasvik in Finnmark, precisely as a result of lack of local ownership, and ensuring local supplies. It is in combination with the increasing number of jet fleets and the fact that the coastal fishing fleet is back with its broken back. What does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do in his fisheries policy so that coastal communities such as Hasvik will have the opportunity to survive in the future, with their dependence on fish as a resource?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e172	With the visions for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, it will just be the districts that will reap and benefit from that development. And I'm not in any doubt for a moment that many of the fishing forces along the coast that are strong and have a lot of competence will be involved in the development that we're going to have. As far as Hasvik is concerned, there is no lack of local ownership or anything related to this with the local ownership that is the cause of major problems now. A company that has disposed of several facilities has taken bankruptcy. In connection with this, the Minister has taken the initiative to meet the municipality on Friday, with the Norwegian Raw Fish Team and with the Fisheries Directorate, to see how we are going to deal with it and to ensure that supplies are not stopped, in the purchase in the municipality of Hasvik, in order to ensure both the supply of the fishing fleet and the maintenance of the competence of the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e179	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e182	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 19 In the case of Norwegian agriculture and food production, it was stressed by the majority that: [[1999 - 2000]] ‘frontier trade should be slowed down in order to maintain sufficient flows of goods and value creation throughout the country’. A survey was published in the Ministry of Agriculture in 1999, which showed that the price differences on a representative food basket were quite precise between Norway and Sweden. Under the direction of the Labour Party in the Ministry of Agriculture, price differences were reduced. Now they're increasing. My question is, what does the Council of State intend to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e194	In the last half of the year, the main contribution to balancing price differences between Norway and Sweden in food products was the reduction in half-food prices from 1 July last year, as is well known, among others. The working party and the centre parts were behind. What we can see in retrospect is that the price reduction of just under 10 pst. which was expected as part of the VAT reduction has been continued. Accurate price surveys every month thereafter show that we have now received a level that is approx. 10 pst. lower, and has remained until the study in December. It has been an important contribution. With regard to the price range and future developments in border trade, there is probably a relatively complex issue that concerns more than the prices of food. We know that it's also about the price of a lot of other products. It's about alcohol, about tobacco, there's a lot of conditions. It is clear that the Government’s objective, as set out in the Sem Declaration, is to maintain a policy that increases cost-effectiveness, and to keep prices as low as possible throughout the food chain on the Norwegian side, from primary production through industry, in order to maintain maximum competitiveness for Norwegian food.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e201	I thank you for your answer. Another problem that came out completely in the news last night was that in three out of ten shops in Oslo customs found illegal imports of meat. And it's not just illegal imports of meat, but these products get very little satisfactory treatment and storage conditions. At a time when both manufacturers and industry also handle food on the basis of a high level of food safety in Norway, trade in goods is very worrying. What will the Council of State do? We must not get into the situation in Norway that there is reasonable meat in the shops, without a guarantee of where the food comes from, where in addition food safety can be called into question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e209	Yes, I share the representative's view, this is very worrying. We may have reason to believe, for example: In view of the figures provided by the customs authorities in the TV2 statement yesterday, this is the great darkness. The meat turnover in both shops and restaurants in the capital area is inconclusive. That is why there is a need for increased supervision, both by customs and police, in so far as this is about criminal offences, but also from food surveillance, which is now shared – the Food Authority, etc. – which during this year is reorganised into a comprehensive food surveillance system in which the country operates everything and where the aim is to strengthen and improve the quality of food monitoring. We have to control more. The dangerous thing about the discovery of smuggler meat, as we now see, is not just the loss of income that the Norwegian State has, but the fact that meat is being marketed that we cannot guarantee the quality and health impact of. So, in addition to having good control by the Norwegian authorities, consumers have to ask where this meat comes from and be critical when they shop.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e214	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e217	There are in particular many myths about the prices of agricultural products. While some cross-border elections from Eastfold buy Swedish food at a dumped price, Swedes travel from Storlien to Meråker and trade at the Bonnpreis in Meråker. So there's a lot of myths out there about the price picture of agricultural products. I want to get to grips with the last thing that Mr Gaundal's representative was concerned about, namely the quality and what is now being seen about illegal imports. The confidence in Norwegian agriculture is high. Consumers have great confidence in what is produced in Norwegian agriculture. It is based both on the fact that Norwegian agriculture has never been close to being an industrialised agriculture — it may be something to think about for an agricultural minister who is eager to make the big ones even bigger — and on the security of the quality of the food you actually buy. That is what is now being challenged by these illegal imports, and by the way this food is stored. It weakens the quality of food. This trust should not be challenged, and I have to repeat the question to the Minister of Agriculture: what will be done in concrete terms in relation to illegal imports, which are still quite easy to identify?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e224	Firstly, with regard to the part relating to food supervision, I said in my first response to Mr Gaundal that the new Food Safety Authority has to increase its efforts in order to check that sales are carried out within the framework of the law, and that there is a safe food being marketed. It will also be possible to discover more and more whether meat that has been illegally admitted to Norway is being sold. In addition, it is the task of the customs authorities to become even more neat and competent to reveal what is illegal imports into Norway – and unfortunately we have reason to believe that there is a significant amount of smuggling here. From the point of view of an agricultural minister, it is not least the fear that such foodstuffs will be marketed, where we cannot guarantee the safety of people's health when they eat it, which is the most worrying. In addition to improving supervision by authorities, it is important to have alert consumers who are critical. If you eat at a restaurant and suspect the meat – and you may have it – you should be critical and ask where it comes from. That's all right; it's okay to ask both cook and restaurant where the meat comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e231	There are additional wood that has drawn on follow-up questions – the first is Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e234	The Sem Declaration states that the price differences of food between Norway and our neighbouring countries will be reduced. In Sweden and Denmark, there is a completely different debate than in Norway, because the average food prices are 25 pst. higher than in the rest of Europe. When we talk about Swedish trade, it is actually so cheap now that some Eastern folds travel to Sweden, to Little Norway, and buy pork ribs so cheap that they use it to feed the bikkja with! What measures should the Government take to reduce food prices and reduce price differences? We've got to figure out the reef in the food chains. NILF, ECON and other institutes have looked at this and looked at who has increased their margins in the food chain. Former Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen focused a lot on the final stage [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e243	The President will earnestly ask that you try to look a little bit at the clock and observe the speaking time, otherwise it will be very unfair for those who do not get the word at all because the time has run out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e246	I can repeat that in our work to reduce costs, attention has been paid to all stages of the Norwegian food chain. I am pleased to note that the intermediates, wholesale links, not least on the meat side, are now carrying out major structuralisations. We know with pain that slaughterhouses are being laid down in many districts, and it is being rationalised, just to be able to increase cost-effectiveness, i.e. so that the intermediate can do its tasks in a cheaper way. This government is directing the same attention to the last leg that the previous government had. We carry out regular price surveys. Although it is not primarily the Ministry of Agriculture's task, I think this is so important that we carry out ongoing price surveys in order to keep up with and keep the pressure on the chains, so that costs are as low as possible. The goal is the right price to the right quality. I also have to say, like a little parentheses, that border trade has always been, and it's gone a little bit both ways. But it's important that it doesn't take over completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e255	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e258	It is highly focused on price – price, price, price. It seems that the Minister of Agriculture is now focusing a lot on price. In the past, the Minister of Agriculture was much more concerned with quality. I think he should hold on to it. We know that Norway is a sink in organic food production, a quality food that many demand. We know that manufacturers today are unable to produce according to demand. What is done by the agricultural authorities to get the quality of food, for which people are willing to pay, more in focus, so that you get away from the hysterical price discussion that is taking place in the media and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e265	I think it's possible to have more thoughts in my head at the same time. I think it's always important to have pressure on every part of a food chain like this in order for them to be as effective as possible. But I think it is also possible to focus on the fact that very many – a growing part of the market – want to demand quality at a higher price. I think that's very central. I recently heard a talk by a director of one of the biggest food dealers in Europe. He said that there is very little focus on the price of the food turnover they are currently planning for 5–6 years ahead, in relation to consumer demands for animal welfare in production, on the ethics of production and on the health aspect, which we know Europe as a whole is concerned about following the major crises. So the food market will always be compounded. Some people are very concerned about the price, and we need to have cost-effective deliveries to them. But it is also a growing market for quality, where price is not important. It's actually MMI studies that show that scarcely 50 pst. consumers do not look at prices in food shops at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e273	Sign Eye - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e276	Control of illegal imports of meat both in the merchandise and in the restaurant industry, as we saw on TV yesterday, shows that there is a lot of illegal happening. But at the same time, the resources deployed to take illegal imports are very small compared to what is now being discovered. When only seven checks are made a week – I guess – it is clear that in Oslo, with all the restaurants and all the shops here, many years will pass before a review is carried out by most people. It also shows that there are very small opportunities to be taken. Will the Council of State take the initiative to do something, so that we can get a much better and faster control, and that it also includes resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e283	As is well known, in this area, it is likely that in most other areas, limited resources, limited budgetary frameworks, and the budgets have to do maximum within them. I feel confident that the agencies are doing everything they can within the budget framework they have. It will be in the current budgetary procedure, if new information is made available when the Government is working on its budgets, to look at the basis for an increase in the use of resources in some areas. I think there are figures that show that there will be a natural assessment when new budgets are to be created in the future. As far as food surveillance itself is concerned, which does not go to customs and illegal imports and police tasks, but which go to the control of food security, we know that we are going through a lot of reorganization. There are many different directorates to gather for a wide range of food supervision. There are huge resources – a billion dollars and 1,500 people – and the whole point of that reorganisation is to manage less and control more, be more out there. I can promise that when we get the reorganisation we're doing this year, we're going to have much more control over the food that's being marketed, and consumers are going to be even safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e290	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e293	I want to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. The Right-State Council is now to introduce a new charge, the so-called structural charge. I think we belong to the echo of party leader Jan Petersen: not a crown in tax and tax suction! But enough about it. I have understood that the structural charge should be to reduce the capacity of the fishing fleet. I guess that's good. But what I'm wondering is that one in this round is doing something like not doing in the previous round, when one in the pelagic sector built up the unit quota system, where it was that sector alone that so far paid the value with capacity reduction. Now, what's going on is that you get a structure tax that's for everyone, so that everyone here is going to pay for a service they don't actually get. Then is my question: Does the Council of State think this is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e302	It is true that a so-called structural charge is planned to take capacity into the coastal fleet. This is a fee and a structural fund requested by Norway’s Fiskarlag in its decision at the last national meeting. This is part of what was negotiated in the fisheries agreement in the autumn, so this is clearly in line with what the fishing industry itself is asking for and wants to contribute to increasing profitability. It is true that structural changes have been made in other parts of the fleet, but it should be well known that significant funds have been used in the form of condensation subsidies, including: financed by the Fisheries Agreement, entered into other fleet groups. We now have the regulation out for consultation. Then we'll see what the reactions are, and then we'll decide how the fund is to be set up, who's to contribute, the amount of the fee and the other legislation. But I am aiming for this to be implemented from 1 January 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e309	I am fully aware that the Norwegian Fisheries Team has asked for such a scheme, but I am not so sure if they asked that this would apply to the entire fleet, that those who have actually already paid for a part in order to have a structural and capacity reduction, among other things. Of the ring-fleet, would be on it. Another thing that Norway’s Fiskarlag said in its decision was that this would be a spice layer where the fisherman on the one hand and the state on the other hand would be involved in making a contribution. The listening note that is now out, as I understand it, does not add up to a state contribution, but only that this fee should be on the fishing fleet itself – and therefore as large as 1 pst. Does the Council of State think it's reasonable? Then one has gone away from the fisherman team's original desire to share, and that this should be a spice layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e318	The out-of-court regulation is well in line with both the Fishlayer’s decisions and the ambitions of this government to increase the profitability of all parts of the fleet. So it's not right that this should be a one-sided fee and a fund funded by the fishermen. Already in this year's agreement, funds have been put into the structure and for conditioning, but it would be wrong for a regulation of a fund to signal or alert a size of a state share. There, the Stortinge shall have a word in the team in the annual budgets. So initially, we're going to set up a fund funded by a first-stage fee, where fishermen themselves contribute to that structural change because they can then, in the next round, discard the gain that lies there through fewer actors and better profitability. In terms of the delimitation, who's going to be involved and finance this, we're going to get back to it, but I remember that it's not like other parts of the fleet just financed it themselves. The Condensation Grant is an old scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e327	There will be follow-up questions – Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e330	I have recorded that the Association of Fishermen has stated that the introduction of this structural charge may result in this being a sleeping cushion for the structural change that must take place in the fleet, and you go so far as to say that you fear that this can stop. Does the Minister for Fisheries share that fear? What kind of arguments does the Minister for Fisheries have in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e337	No, I certainly don't share any concern that this would be a sleep cushion – in which case it would be a troubled sleep. This is a strong tool, which both the state and the actors are helping to get going, and to the extent that you should have it as a sleeping cushion, I think there is more reason to worry and stay awake at night if we are unable to bring about structural changes that will increase profitability. So it's just this fund and the tools that we want to put into this context, which are going to give a safe sleep, also for the fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e345	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e348	I have a question for Minister of Culture and the Church, Mr. Svarstad Haugland. We all grunt at the back of the woman’s vision that some imams and parts of the immigrant environment stand for – but it is in a way known logic from patriarchal structures. There is exploding power in equality and women's liberation also in Norwegian religious communities; it is not always that equality is accepted there either. I have understood that the Government stands for a position in which equality is a human right and shall not be relative to faith or culture. How are we to demand equality in the immigrant and religious communities, when we do not have equality as a premise and the equality law does not apply in the Norwegian Church and in other religious communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e357	I fully agree with Andersen's representative that equality is important, and that equality should also apply within the Norwegian Church. The discussion has been on whether to impose on the Church of Norway the obligation that equality laws should apply or whether it should choose for itself. I think that the Norwegian Church itself should be able to choose if they want equality laws to apply, and as we see now, the Norwegian Church has even been given the favour of equality because they follow the requirements and so it is within the practice of the Church. And that must be the most important thing. Otherwise I agree with Karin Andersen that there are different views of equality within different religious environments, but at the same time I would like to stress that for my part and for the Government it is important that the idea of equality permeates the whole of Norwegian society. We must go further in relation to our new immigrant groups, and we must also be prejudiced in relation to the different beliefs and beliefs of life that we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e366	Then I have to be allowed to follow up the Council of States and say that there is now an incredibly great need to be clear – unambiguous and inconclusive – when we talk about these fundamental values that equality is in the Norwegian community. Then the Council of State says that she believes that the Norwegian Church will be free to choose. All right. Other religious communities should be allowed to choose freely. But at the same time, it's important to influence. How has the Government intended to be clear and inconclusive and to influence so that one cannot opt out of one of the most important premises of Norwegian society? The government has stated that the principle of equality should not be cultural or religious. It is important that the Council of State is more concrete than saying that we should work for this. I think the Council of State must also recognise that there are environments within different types of religious communities, whether they are traditional Norwegian or foreign, that strongly oppose these ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e373	It is important for me to be able to combine the freedom of trust, which we want to give to the various groups, by being very clear that discrimination should not take place. I think we can be involved and influence in dialogue with the different trust societies. I don't want to impose them, for example. equality laws are incorporated into their legislation, but when it comes to discrimination against women, the suppression of women, taking away women's choices, for example. When it comes to spouses, we must be quite clear that this is not legal in Norway. To this we say, among other things: to a part of the Refreshulas that they should also teach about the Norwegian Equality Act. There is a clear indicator that what is Norwegian law should also apply to the different trust societies. It's a good thing to combine it with giving religious freedom to the faith communities, as we also want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e378	There will be follow-up questions – Aud Gaundal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e381	Some young women from our new countrymen pointed out that the Muslim school was not a good response. It was then the State Council Lilletun who approved that school. My question is whether the Council of State still believes that that decision was correct, and what kind of action she can take in relation to the fact that, after all, it is an approved school. How can one come in with another woman's vision and another information? Then, too, it has been found that we lack routines, among other things. in the case of pregnant women, where there has been sexual mutilation. Does the Council see a need for health professionals to be more closely involved in tackling the problem in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e388	Now I'm aware that there are also Norwegians who disagree that one should be allowed to start freshly, because they're different in what these private spheres stand for. That some Muslim people also disagree with us about having Muslim schools, we know that. Nevertheless, we believe that the parental right, that all parents have the right to choose school for their children, is so important that one will create Muslim schools. Personally, I think the Muslim children would enjoy going to Norwegian school, but I'm not going to judge the Muslim parents well for their children. What needs to be very clear here is that the Muslim schools should also follow Norwegian laws and prefected values, such as: are in the equality law. We have to follow this up, so that we have the same requirements for these schools and the other incubators as for the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e393	Siri Hall Arnøy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e396	The Minister of the Church has, among other things: at Holmgang was liberatingly ready in his emphasis that in Norway there is a natural right to choose to marry of love. Since the Minister now shows such great faith in dialogue, my question to the Minister of the Church about this view in Norway also includes homosexuals and lesbians, and how, as Minister of Church Affairs, she wants to promote this view, possibly in a dialogue with the Norwegian Church, for which she is particularly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e403	I'm also concerned that human beings should be allowed to live with the ones they're happy about. When it comes to the Christian People's Party's view of the law of partnership, the representative knows well, we were opposed to it when it was signed. At the same time, we must show respect for those who use the laws and enter into partnerships. When it comes to what the Church itself is going to do in that debate, I think it is important to point out the dialogue in the Church, and I want to be a state council for the Church that is listening to what the Church itself wants and stands for. I'm not going to use my political overtones to force those opinions, nor through the appointment of pros and bishops to force my theological opinions. Church itself is a community of trust, they must be allowed to function like that, with the freedom it gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e411	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e414	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture a question. In the 2002 budget, the government had put in EUR 18 million. kr to the cultural school bag. So in the Bondevik II scheme, there was a cut of $6 million. kr, which now means that the offer of cultural schools for children in all counties is considerably weakened. My question to the Minister of Culture will therefore be: What will the Council of State do to ensure that all children receive a cultural school offer through the cultural school bag?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e423	It's quite right that we cut 6 million. kr on the cultural school bag, because the previous government spent far too little money on cultural buildings around our municipalities. We chose to prioritize part of the funds from the school to cultural buildings. Now the money was redistributed during the treatment in Stortinget, so what the money finally went to, I don't think entirely, but there were corks of more cultural buildings or more to the cultural school. The funds available to the cultural school today are far too few to offer to all municipalities and all counties. If necessary, a step-up plan is needed to make it possible. At the rate it's been given in the last few years, it can be a long way to go, but we'll see what we can do in our budget rounds. We have to get back to that. At least I'm concerned that the cultural school bag should not be packed up and laid down, but developed further. I would also like to stress that the funds we cut are cut at the central level, the central organisations, who still have to drive them to communicate to children and young people. They still have to do their job. The money to go to the county goes unabated to the county. With regard to the dissemination of art and culture in schools, the curriculum sets out to do so for all. The cultural school should in a way be the supplement – the plus – that is used to make it better. And then we get to hope that through further budget management, we will be able to strengthen the measures for children and young people around our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e432	It is good to hear that the thoughts and plans are good, but we can't get anything special out of it if it doesn't come with the money. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that children and young people receive good cultural opportunities. In fact, I feel that this is one of the most important things that politicians can do for the time being. The fact that children and young people get a relationship with culture early makes them develop identity and become whole people. When money disappears and is transferred to something else, it's actually a priority as well. When the government elected children and young people through the cultural school system, it becomes difficult to understand how to get more culture out to the schools. I don't think the answer to that is better cultural building, but a school offer that applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e439	Now I think quite a lot in this room know that around the municipalities in Norway there are many who are waiting to get support for exactly their cultural building. There are some areas that haven't been added yet and they're queued. But, as I said, the committee at Stortinget, when the government negotiated with the Labour Party, did not add any more to the cultural school because they gave priority to other things within the budget framework that they had been given to consult. If the number is 18 million. kr should be a sign that one has a huge effort on cultural school bags, I actually have to disappoint the representative that one doesn't come that far a cork of 18 or 12 million. kr. But I want to underline again that the $12 million. If this is the case, the unabated will go to the state, and the national institutions will continue to be run by means of dissemination to children and young people. The cut that was made is not a disaster for cultural communication. But here we're going to keep cooking, and then we have to try to get a escalation plan. At least I want to have it with me when we are going to have negotiations on the budget. The result will be in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e446	There will be follow-up questions – Torny Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e449	We have talked hot and long about the children of Norway growing up in poverty. Several parties were in the campaign and promised measures to combat poverty among these children, and in particular were concerned with all the opportunities these children could not take part in. They cannot participate in a lot of leisure activities, class tours and cultural activities taking place in the arena outside the school. Does the Council of State see that an offer of cultural school related to the ordinary school day can give these children an arena similar to other children, and that a good cultural school offer builds up differences between the children who have rich parents and those who have parents with slightly worse finances?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e454	I am a little uncertain whether I will answer this question. The first part is actually the responsibility of the Social Minister and the second part is the responsibility of the Minister of Education. None of these issues are directly under my department. What I can say on behalf of the Government is that, first of all, we have focused on coping with poverty. We've started, and we're going to work on it, because it's done too little in the years that are behind us. And secondly, we're concerned with both their woes and well, and that we're going to have cultural communication and provision for children and young people. In general, I can answer that, but I don't think it's right for me to go into details that there are two other ministers who have the primary responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e463	Ågot Valle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e466	I will agree with the Minister of Culture that it is relatively indifferent if you have 18 million. kr or 12 mill. kr to the cultural school bag. Small money is anyway. But I'm a little worried when she minimizes a cut of $6 million. kr, and even more, on the cultural budget, which, of course, needs a boost when it loses, we look at cultural statistics. But now leave it. The cultural school bag is about the dissemination of art and culture to young people throughout the country. It also requires an up-to-date apparatus at municipal level. Now we see that culture and cultural competence are perplexing around the municipalities. That is a result, among other things. because culture is lawless, and it is moneyless in a poor community economy. Then I come back to a question that is terribly important to us in SV, namely: Will the Minister of Culture support a cultural law that can ensure all accessibility to art and culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e475	I want to first emphasize that we haven't cut 6 million. kr on the cultural budget. We don't have more than 50 million. kr on the cultural budget, which the representative Giske has claimed both in articles in newspapers and on radio. We cut in support of the press, but culture has got exactly the same heads as Ellen Horn and the previous government put in. These 6 million were re-prioritized to other cultural activities. So the culture in general hasn't lost on this. Elles is suing for cultural law something that it is natural for me to evaluate in connection with the cultural message, which comes in 2003. I have a sense of it. At the same time, we know that introducing new laws also requires quite great promises. Today, there are some municipal tasks that are statutory. So they are given priority over culture. This is a dilemma. At the same time, it has something to do with the desire and will of local democracy to rule. These things must be weighed up against each other. We'll get back to it when the cultural message is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e483	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e486	First, I'd like to remind you that the cut of $6 million. kr of the cultural school, which amounted to about 30 pst. of the total structure coming from the Ministry, received support from the Labour Party at the time it was dealt with in Stortinget. It has been said that the cultural school should be a national bet area. What happened in Stortinget has created very great uncertainty around the county with regard to plans, considering whether the Storting really wants to bet in this area. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State now enter into a dialogue with the municipalities with information, talk about any plan for stepping up, about the time aspect and how one sees that one can get the cultural school to stand up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e493	I've already started that dialogue. I met the head of state culture yesterday and gave a talk and had a dialogue with them. When it comes to the escalation plan, it's a budgetary question that we have to come back to – I can't answer it today. But I've given a signal to the heads of state that the cultural school is going to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e498	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e501	I have a question for the minister of the church. After four years of work, the Church Council's Church-State Committee, the so-called Bakkevig Committee, is about to finish its work. A phone call came in November last year, and yesterday there was a new phone call. The signals indicate that there is a desire for a significant change in church structure. Like the Advance Party, the Right and Left government parties will have a distinction between the State and the Church. As far as I am aware, the Christian People's Party is in favour of «a new arrangement in the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church». The Sem statement refers to the above-mentioned Bakkevig setting. When it is available, it is ‘natural that the whole Church-State relationship is addressed to a broad review’. Can the Council of States, on this basis and already give a warning on behalf of the Government? Will this government accept the distinction between state and church, which it seems to be recommending, and which it seems that there can be a political majority for whether you want to?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e510	No, I can't give it the answer today, and I honestly don't think the representative had expected it either. We get an adjustment from the Bakkevig selection in March. This setting has been disabled for some time. So it's not our attitude, it's Church itself that's behind it, and Church is going to send it on a ring in its organs, to its parish councils all around the country. Then they're going to have a first discussion at the Church Meeting of the Autumn. Then I imagine that we have to create a state selection to evaluate the relationship between state and church. We have relatively good time to take a stand on this matter. In many ways, I feel enough that my party is a key party here. The government has said it will wait for your configuration. The government has not taken a final position either, but, as the representative says, it is known what both the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left mean about this matter – it is one of the things where we are not quite the same. So here we have to have processes both in the Government and not least in the Church itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e515	I thank you for your answer. On the supplementary question, I would like to refer again to the Sem Declaration, which states: the Church’s ‘independence on spiritual matters must be respected and the reform work on the transfer of greater responsibility to church bodies should continue’. Could there at all be any better way to ensure full independence in spiritual, organisational and economic matters than through a full distinction between state and church? Would you not just get an active and independent church through such a distinction?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e524	And I think it might be possible for us to get it this way. Here you have more considerations to take. What's in the Sem statement, of course, I'm completely in agreement, and I want to give Church more self-government than it has today, including. in relation to qualifications, etc. But at the same time, I ask for respect for the process that has to go in Regeninga and also in Church itself, and then we will eventually have to take a final stand. What is clear from the Government's side, however, is that the result we end up with will give the Church more self-reliant than it has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e529	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e532	The state church system is an anachronism. I think almost no one would have come up with a state church arrangement if you were to start anew today, so that it stands for fall over time, I think I'm raised above doubt. The Bakkevig Committee, which the Norwegian Church has put down, has now driven and evaluated this. What amazes me, and which is my challenge to the minister of the church, is this: why should we allow the church community to premise how this is going to happen? The fact that the Church has set up a body, the Bakkevig Committee, is in a way quite fine – one should be responsible for beliefs and a lot of other things that I'm not going to go into. But should not civil society, that is, the society we represent, take an initiative in terms of how we are to care for church goods, how we are to preserve the values of the Norwegian Church, how to organise membership and the many thousands of small and large practical issues for which civil society, that is to say, enlargement and government – we – are to take responsibility? We have to reduce a sample so that the Bakkevig committee alone can not add these premises. My challenge to the Minister of the Church is as follows: Should you not take an initiative on the part of the Government to set down such a selection, regardless of the time limit set by the Bakkevig Committee, the Church Council and the Bishops' Meeting for their work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e540	I said in a previous answer that I want to do that, and I want to review the church meeting in the fall. I think the debate in the Church is going to go further than that. However, it is quite clear that the ultimate responsibility of the Storting is to take a stand, but I think it is important that one should have the best possible basis before one should take a stand in the Storting. So we want to give Church some more time, and then after the church meeting in the fall put down a public selection. In the next round, the government is making proposals for the Storting, and the Storing is finally taking a stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e546	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e549	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. The requirement for increased taxation of marine mammals is now being raised with increasing weight in the fishing industry in view of the difficult situation of fishing resources. Fishermen within all groups of vessels are in agreement that the seal and whales are now taking the livelihood of the fishermen, that the fishermen have to pay the bill so that the authorities do not see the seriousness of the situation, and they claim that the stock is out of control. Calculations made by Fisheries Research in Tromsø indicate that whales and seals consume 5,6 million tonnes of fish and shellfish annually, and that is above twice what Norwegian fishermen take up from the sea. Does the Minister for Fisheries regard this situation as a danger to fishing resources, industry and the coast, and what is now done in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e554	Both the Minister of Fisheries and the Government are concerned with ecosystem management where the different species that graze on marine resources are seen in a context. That is why we are now fixing the number of whales to be taken in the season of the year. We have increased efforts to take out the number of coastlines that have been set as top numbers on a biological and professional basis, also considering that we want to have a sustainable coastal population. In the case of the East ice and the West ice, the number of animals to which the quota refers is taken out year by year in the West ice, while the East ice has been worse. We are now looking at how to maintain the competence to take out a fixed number of animals in the East and West ice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e561	I thank you for your answer. I guess it needs to be more lenient and more intense to correct this dramatic situation. And for that, there is a need for broad political consensus, and the Labour Party should be involved. Is it not time for us to bring our own big message on marine mammals, to focus on this important issue, and to reach a broad consensus on the necessary measures that need to be reasonably speedy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e570	I am grateful for the offer to reach a broad consensus on ecosystem management and fisheries management for the rest. It's also necessary, for the marine mammals, there's an opinion out there that we have to take into account. However, the main focus must be on sound ecosystem management, and it also includes the management of marine mammals. In the case of a potential spillage message, it is of the things that I consider, among other things. how we're going to put this into a larger context, but I don't want to be here and now – because I haven't come so far in the assessment – notify that it's coming. But at least it's not coming in the spring now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e577	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e582	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Julie Christiansen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 2, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Development, this question is moved and answered in front of question 11. Question 4, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church who directs him. Question 12, from the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be taken up by the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. Question 13, from the representative André Kvakkestad to the Minister for Education and Research, has been transferred to the Minister for Health who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 10, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 20 and 22, from the representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Sigbjørn Molvik respectively to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 21 and 23, from the representatives of Inge Ryan and Per Roald Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left. Question 25, from Mr Trond Giske's representative to the Minister for Defence, lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e616	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 2 has been moved and is to be answered in advance of question 11. Question 3 is from the representative of Mr Rudihagen to the Minister for Finance. The questioner is not present in the room, so we move on to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e627	This question, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister of Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister of Culture and the Church who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e630	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘Since the new law on Santa Claus came into force from the New Year, homeowners attaching land by Statskog in Lande in Sarpsborg have been increased from 484 kroner to 8,459 kroner per year. There are a total of 340 homeowners partying empty of State Forest in Lande. Does the Council of State consider it an exemplary treatment of landowners that State forest exploits the possibilities offered by the new law to increase the party fee 17 times from one year to the next, thereby adding a guide that private landowners can also refer to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e639	The regulation of the fastening charge to which the representative refers shall apply to land of which the information service fund is the owner. Compared to the party contracts that apply to the fund's property, State Forest is responsible for the regulation of the fixed fee. This does Statskog on behalf of the fund. The information society's fund, which is similar to a foundation, five on money capital and equity, includes about 12,000 real estate properties. Until 1 January 2001, the fund was managed in the department. As of 1 January 2001, a special management body, with its own board, was set up to manage the fund in accordance with the rules governing the management of the fund. I mention this because it follows from the management system recently established for the Fund that the management role of the Ministry is to define the principles and to govern the policies under which the Board of Directors is to manage the Fund. These guidelines were discussed the last time in Stortinget a year ago, in the context of the management of the Kyrkja Business Report, as the Stoltenberg Government presented. In the message, there was a thorough mention of the Information Society's fund and of the principles that apply to the management of the Fund. An important aspect of this is that the fund should be managed on a commercial basis, i.e.: the management of buildings, forest and agricultural property and land that has been laid down away shall be carried out in a commercially defence manner. In most cases it will therefore be the market value of the property that determines the level of prices or charges, which the department, the board of the fund and Statskog must base. In general, I believe that the fund at the hall or in regulating the party fees should not be available on the market. I don't know the specific case from Sarpsborg. Therefore, I cannot comment on whether the increase in the fixation fee to which the representative refers is in spite of the price development or the market value in the area. Moreover, what is the correct market value could be the subject of discussion. If the individual claims that the fixation fee is too high in relation to the market value of the land, the attachment may require a legal understanding. It may also be appropriate to re-tariff the land or the land area. I have no reason to instruct the board of directors of the fund to do something concrete in the matter to which the representative refers, but I still want to inform the board of directors about the matter and whether what I have said in the reply here today. The board must then assess whether there is a reason to re-assess the attachment fee in the area in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e650	I thank you for the answer and interpret it positively, so that the Council of State will follow up with the board and see if there is any basis for making a change. The previous government took an initiative and sent a proposal for a new law on land consolidation to be consulted. I am aware that the then state councils were contacted, both for the State Forest and the Information Service Fund, with a view to whether they could be held back from making the adjustments until the new law was, if any, assessed. Then we know that there was a change of government, and also that a proposal from the Workers' Party here in the Chamber to postpone implementation fell. But I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up with the Board of Directors, and hope that it can also give signals that state owners of land, even though they have the task of managing capital in the best possible way, may be somewhat reluctant to make such an exciting jump. I would think that many private owners would use it as an argument that they would also do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e657	I have nothing else to add but that I want to take it up with the board. But I stress that there is no right of instruction to the board. It is up to the actors here, if necessary, to appeal or to the board itself to re-open the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e662	Then we go back to question 3, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e669	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The issues dealt with in the equations are partly complex and require a lot of judgement. If the subject of the equation is to review the decision of the Equation Agency, the reasons for the change must be legal. What can the Council of State do to ensure that elected members of the Equations Council receive the training necessary to perform their duties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e678	I thank you for a timely and timely question. The background may be described as follows: Tax collectors are entitled to review the equation when they disagree with the decision of the Equation Office. This is a long tradition in Norway, and it is a long tradition for this to happen in a elected body. It is historically and democratically anchored in the idea that the people themselves, not the King, would impose the tax. Such democratic control is considered to be an important guarantee of legal certainty. In many issues of the equation, members with legal or accounting competence are appointed, but there are no special qualifications required by law. However, the preparatory work of the Equation Act refers to the fact that the names should be composed of qualified persons with an understanding of the main industries and professions in the district. It is considered important that the name is given such a composition and that it has good prerequisites for assessing the actual basis of matters within the municipality. At the same time, the members of the denominator often do not have any specific prerequisites for resolving legal questions of interpretation or other tax law issues. The starting point here is that the Equation Office will explain the legal issues involved in the preparation of the case. The equation manager has the right to meet in the equation subject, and if the name calls him, he has the duty to meet. The task of one of the heads of the equation is to explain legal issues and answer questions from the denominator. Thus, it cannot be assumed that the members of the denominator are to deal with complex legal issues on their own. Some training should, in any case, happen, and I have been informed by the Tax Directorate that they have just taken action to improve the training of their members. The current guidance for the members of the equation topic is now being revised. In this context, the types of information needed in addition to that already provided in the guidance are identified. The Tax Directorate will also contact the County Tax Offices on standardisation of the arrangements for the training of members of the Board of Directors. Such information will be provided in conjunction with collections of the names when appointed. The Directorate stresses that representatives of the Equation Office should provide tax law training adapted to the needs of the denominator. In addition, it is intended that the members of the denominator shall receive each of their copies of the Tax Directorate's Equations-ABC. The Directorate is also working on creating a new decision-making template for the EQs. The model shall focus on the need for an easy understanding of decisions and justifications. This will probably also facilitate the work of the members of the denominators in getting involved and taking a position on the complaints. Finally, I would like to mention that local measures work at the same time as central action. To some extent, it is therefore up to local Equation Offices and denominators to design appropriate forms of work and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e695	I thank you for your answer. I found it positive that the Council of State and the Directorate of Taxation are now focusing on this problem. It is right, as the Council of State says, that the trade union has such a clear role to play in this, but if the democratic element that is referred to is to have some meaning, the members have to take decisions on the basis of the material that is leading. The challenge here is that one has popular equality students of playwrights who are just going to exercise a judgement, but that judgement is going to be based on a rather complicated piece of legislation. The members of this group must feel inconsequentially uncomfortable about having to make important decisions for people without necessary training and schooling. Vara member of the equation study in Lørenskog, Aslam Ahsan, has been updated and made visible through the media the situation in which the members of the label are. He refused to be involved in and treat 28 parables at a meeting on the subject of equations without any training and understanding of the laws and regulations in force in the field. As far as I am concerned, there were 266 pages of text that had to be read in three working days. I assume that the Council of State agrees that there is an unsustainable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e704	The Council of State agrees with what was written in the paper on the matter in question. I would like to add that in advance this member, like everyone else, had received a general guide. It is possible that this guide is not good enough, so I also said in my reply that the types of information needed in relation to the members of the denominator will be identified. In other words, you should now not only send out new information as the Tax Directorate sees the need, but also as users see the need. As for the short time to get involved in matters, the individual is of course free of charge in relation to how long they will send out matters in advance. But I agree with the questioner that it must be a minimum requirement that you get proper time and opportunity to get involved in matters, both in time and in training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e711	I would like to thank the Council of State for attending when this is the case. What I'm aware of is that there's an information booklet that consists of 29 pages to give some kind of basic introduction. But based on the responsibility of this denominator, it's hardly enough. They must, of course, take care of the interests of taxpayers and be a guarantee of legal certainty, which was also covered by the Council of State. At the same time, of course, they must also be the representatives of tax authorities and ensure that taxes are offset by the laws. There are probably many notables who feel that it is almost immoral and irresponsible to deal with matters of such a serious nature without more extensive training that provide basic insight into the field of action. I therefore hope that the Council of State, which he is now signalling, will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e716	That's what the Council of State will do. I have pointed out that it is not only the 29 pages of written information that are taken into account, but also collections for the members of the equality students and, in addition, training on the part of the equality offices in relation to the denominators. In conclusion, I would just like to stress that it is often in the situation of politicians, also locally, that the space for action provided by the law is not unlimited, but that there are certain discretions, and then it is important to know within which framework you can act under the applicable law, which both asks and answers agree is too complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e723	Then we go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e731	‘Hustad clay, the Civil Protection Pre-School, has been adopted without prior notification of the school’s evaluation and without any conference at all. The preschool has built up a unique competence that will now disappear, and the guardians lose an offer that is more important than ever, namely how to resolve conflicts by non-violent means. How will the Council of State explain such a decision, and how will qualitatively better training be ensured in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e738	The boarding school of the civil guardians of Hustad was proposed in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002, submitted by the Government of Stoltenberg and followed up by the Government of Bondevik. The proposal was adopted by a broad majority in Stortinget. To me, there are three things that are important in this matter. We must ensure that the defence of all parts of the country is treated equally. We're going to make sure that the money is spent in the best possible way, and we're going to have a high-quality education in violence prevention. The Hustad boarding school means a four-week stay for civil guardians from the northernmost counties and from the western part of the country. Protective persons from the East are not covered by such training, which in itself is problematic. In addition, it has been shown that the school has not been able to provide education that is generally service-ready, because civil guardians are given up to a wide variety of service assignments. The Ministry therefore announced in St.meld. No 22 for 1995-1996 an assessment of the future scope and function of preschool. The Storting gave its support to this. The school staff were also informed about this. In addition, employees were informed in connection with the presentation of St.prp. No 1 October 2001. A relevant issue in this context is that boarding school education consumes too much of the few resources we have in the community sector. School education is itself an expensive form of education. At the same time, there is a line of civil guardians waiting to serve their duty of protection. The means we save by shutting down the boarding school will be used to cut the queue, so that the civil guardians can do their service to the greatest extent possible at the same time as their peers in the Defence. Secondly, under the direction of the Ministry of Justice, a new instruction system for the violence-prevention service at Hustad is to be developed. The teaching shall be based on short courses and seminars aimed directly at the civil guardians who are actually required to provide violence prevention services. The experience from the East, where the Civil Service Administration of Dillingøy has established the successful ‘Bypass’ violent prevention project, shows that this form of teaching can provide a qualitatively good service for preventing violence. Central school staff will continue their work in the field of violence and conflict prevention, which will be valuable in the design and implementation of the future educational system for this service sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e755	I have a very strong understanding of the frustration of the employees at Hustad camp that they feel that they have not been included in this process. I think it would have been more tidy if this had not been promoted as a budget proposal, and that we had the opportunity to have a debate on the future of this school. I feel in a way that it is sad that no one can be informed in advance of such a dramatic proposal, which was unfortunately also adopted. I would like the Council of State to think again and carry out an evaluation and then come back to this in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e760	Now it is a fact that the matter has already been dealt with by the Stortinget and has been endorsed by a broad majority. It is also the case that the evaluation was expressed in the Ministry of Justice’s budget proposal. When the matter is the subject of political discussion within the framework of the State budget, there are certain specific restrictions on the publication of the proposal. The employees were therefore informed at the earliest possible time. But I have underlined, and I would like to repeat, that we are concerned with maintaining important competences. Therefore, both the principal and the library, including the librarian, will be kept at Hustad. This means that the redundancies at Hustad affect eight of the 11 jobs in total, while there are already 40 posts at the administration that are continuing. It is precisely the competence we have that will be used to ensure the quality of the experience I described in the Bypass project, which is part of the Dillingøy administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e765	The civil guardians aren't the ones who over the years have gotten the most money, and I think it's a pity that economic arguments are used to put the preschool down, because that's what I think is the most heavy argument used by the ministry. Yesterday, VG said that 75 000 students were subjected to bullying in the Norwegian school. A very important part of the work at the preschool and the VOCT line has been to prepare young men who are there for non-violence reasons and who can do important work in schools to prevent bullying. In addition, I believe it is particularly relevant in these days to work on a non-violent level and to resolve conflicts at a non-violent level. I'm excited about what comes from alternative teaching arrangements for this group. I hope that the Department will be able to maintain the competence that is now built up, and to get a proper school structure in terms of anti- bullying measures and non-violent measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e774	We maintain the competence of Hustad. I have mentioned both the principal and the library, and we want to take with us experiences from Dillingøy, which have just been expressed in the Bypass project, and which I also know from my previous life as both a Oslo citizen and as a staging representative for Oslo. That is exactly the kind of experience we want to bring with us, because we think they are very useful. I agree with the representative that all good forces, including civil servants, will be allowed to participate in the work outlined here, namely to prevent violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e782	‘The staff of the Court of Justice are informed of the staffing situation of the institution. Still, there are only two night guards to look after 108 prisoners. Does the Council of State consider this to be sufficient manning?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e789	Criminal services have 57 different holdings consisting of prisons, play areas and transitional dwellings with very different levels of security and regimes. In addition to these 57, a number of health services offices come with sub-offices. Prior to the insertion of a person sentenced to unconditional prison sentence for trial, an assessment of the place of detention shall be made. The assessment takes place on the basis of the applicable rules, where factors such as type of offence, length of judgment, possible past criminal offences, personal circumstances, security, etc. counter. Based on the failure statistics, it is clear that there are consistently good assessments before anyone is given housing in an open school. Prisons of the type represented by the Court have traditionally received persons convicted of infringements of the Road Traffic Act, including per-mile and exceedance of speed. In recent years, prisons have also received short-term referees convicted of other types of offences, including criminal offences. infringement of the pharmaceutical law. The average sentence length is one month and three weeks. The average cover at the Court has been 67 pst in recent years. of ordinary housing capacity, i.e. 72 prisoners. Last year, the number increased slightly to 78 pst. This corresponds to an average of 85 prisoners. This also indicates that a strong selection is made in order not to challenge the level of safety. Press on closed sites in the region has sometimes resulted in prison management having to transfer prisoners from high-security prisons to the Court of Justice. In most cases, this has not resulted in special problems for prisons. In the event of problems, prisons are trying to transfer prisoners to other prisons with a higher level of security. The total number of prison posts is 36. Most of the staff are in prison or craft education. Assuming that the Hof prison can continue to receive the type of prisoners they have received so far, I find it safe and secure with today's night shift at Hof.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e800	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm aware that there's a selection going on, and that it's a different clientele than what Hof prison was built for. But you can imagine extraordinary situations, for example. in case of disease and fire. Then I think two people are small. However, I cannot see that there are guidelines on how many employees there should be on a certain number of prisoners in the different categories of prison. Could the Council of State plan to take initiatives to establish such guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e807	A continuous assessment of both resolution needs and security needs, for which criminal services are responsible and which are below the six regions is carried out. Let us see, for example: in the context of institutions such as Ilseng, Hof, Sandeid and Verdal, it will be noted that the crew is about the same. It is based on the fact that, within the overall criminal justice system, we have to make a very thorough assessment of who ends there. Based on this and based on the experiences we have, I now want to stick to the way you work with these questions. I trust the discretion that is exercised locally. I also have to add: I met with people in prison, at the latest yesterday in Kristiansand, experienced that these are very motivated and good people who also have a significant ability to solve practical challenges and cooperate with other agencies. So with regard to the question of the manning situation at Hof, as I have previously answered, I feel that the level of safety is sufficient, and I will govern according to the staffing rules and rules that we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e815	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The drug problem is major in Arendal. Many parents are brought to the brink of collapse when they discover that their children have come into contact with drugs. Access to drugs should be the least problem in Arendal. From different sources, the information is that some immigrant communities represent a significant part of the trafficking of such illicit substances in Arendal. This is alarming information. What is the Council of State’s view on this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e824	Like elsewhere in the country, the drug problem in Arendal is worrying. The police department, however, informs us that Arendal does not stand out in particular compared to other cities in the country. The reported drug crime is relatively similar to the national average per year. 1 000 inhabitants. However, the Arendal area is exposed to, including: near the location of Kristiansand and port links to the continent. In Arendal, it has been seen as an appropriate strategy to upset and ‘stress’ the addictive environment. The aim is to mitigate the spread of drugs and prevent recruitment into the environment. This initiative has given the police an in-depth knowledge of the people, trends and environments involved. Uniform police are used to a greater extent than before. The police directorate has been informed by the Agder police district that the Arendal police have no evidence of the claim that some immigrant communities account for a significant proportion of the drug trafficking in the district. The Agder police follow developments closely, and I am confident that the fight against drugs in Arendal is a high priority – both in terms of prevention and the follow-up to criminal offences. In any case, the overall picture is worrying. There are clear indications of negative developments in the relation of youth groups to drugs. Both in Arendal and the country, police record that youth often devalues their relationship with drug use. In view of these trends and the major social and health damage caused by drug use, the Government has recently set up a State Secretarial Committee to provide, within a short period of time, actions in key areas to strengthen its efforts to combat drug use. In the government’s view, the fight against drugs must be combated on two fronts at the same time – we must prevent access to drugs and we must stop the recruitment of new drugs. In line with the government’s commitment to children and young people, we will strengthen the overall, preventive effort to prevent new recruitment. In this context, prevention and awareness-raising police work will be a high priority, as will be seen in the action plan on drugs, which the Police Directorate will have completed by March 2002. It is important that worried parents meet local police. I would therefore like all parents in high school, preferably 8th grade, to be able to obtain information at a joint meeting on the local drug situation and on the role that parents can play in preventing drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e844	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background for me to address this matter is among other things. enquiries by more and more dubious parents from Agder who simply no longer take over their children's drug abuse. It often makes a strong impression on me to get so close to the tragedies that occur in the wake of the fact that both Arendal and the whole country are now formally flooding with drugs. I think it's being done too little to stop the availability. As a result, more and more young people and Norwegian families are having their lives ruined. Isn't it time to bet on taking the backers, those who really profit from the misery of others in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e851	Both the representative and I share the concern about what parents here experience. I've met it personally. I know how it feels. That's why I stressed so strongly that you had to get into school to provide information, so that parents can be mobilised to do what they can. Then, of course, the representative is turning the spotlight on the police and especially on the backers. The unit called Catch, which is just about to go after the backers of organized crime, has now been launched. Yesterday, when visiting the Agder police district, I received confirmation that the district is very busy going after the backers in terms of drug trafficking. There's no doubt that we find these backers represented in the Kosovar Albanian environment. There is no reason to hide, no reason to wrap. That's the way it is. But it is my impression that the police have put pressure on these groups, that they have reached far in their work, and that they prioritise it. I think it is positive to be able to say that, because at this point, the representative and the undersigned, who are to express the Government's view, share the same view of both what has to be preventive and what has to be done to combat the problem by taking the backers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e858	I thank you for the answer, but I believe that we in this country have been too passive for too long in our relationship with combating criminal foreign environments, immigrant communities, which we know are dealing with almost all drug trafficking and illegal imports in Norway. These immigrant-dominated criminal environments are a major challenge. Here in Norway, I do not think we have yet understood how well organized and dangerous these backers are in the illicit drug trade. It is too bad that many of the fears of being accused of spreading xenophobia and racism are being held back by pointing out the negative role of immigrants as such in this context. My question is: shouldn't it be the case, in terms of negative things we can relate to immigrant environments, that there is fear of being accused of spreading racism and xenophobia, let alone take part in that debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e865	Let me put it in Norwegian, which I have done in the past, both as a staging representative and as a state councillor: a bastard is a bastard completely independent of skin color and background. I have never hidden the fact that in Kosovo Albanian environments we find some of the core elements of drug trafficking. But for that reason, we can't say that's true for everyone. It's a limited group. Of course, this demarcated group of citizens who abuse the confidence of citizens with both a Kosovar Albanian background and a different background must be combated by all the means available to the police. That's why I was extremely involved in my last term as Minister of Justice in order to get exceptional investigation methods for the police, and I know that the police now benefit from these methods in Agder. I can assure the representative that this is something I will follow closely, for I share his concern for Arendal and Arendal's connection to Kristiansand and the gateway to the continent. But a nice message to the representative is what we're going to do by meeting the parents in 8th grade, because I think it's important to take the parents' concerns seriously so that they join us in the fight against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e875	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the context of the treatment by the Storting of the state acquisition of the hospitals, both the Social Committee and the Municipal Committee expressed the need to provide for a sound and orderly settlement by the State in order to avoid any dispute in the judiciary. Very many municipalities have not reached an agreement with the State, for example: in the transfer of dwellings. Of the results available, the counties do not appear to be treated equally. What is done to meet the Storing assumptions for settlement?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e884	Whereas it has been stressed by the State to conduct real discussions with the counties with a view to reaching as much agreement as possible on the understanding of the application of the health business law and the criteria of the law as regards the ownership of individual properties; However, at the end of the seventh, this process involves the application of law by the country, and all solutions must therefore be compatible with the Health Business Act § 52 paragraph. 6th@item: inlistbox The discussions have been demanding, and there has been a substantial lack of principle between the parties, where, in the view of the department, the county councils have laid the foundations for a narrow definition of what is to be transferred. However, as far as it has been compatible with the Health Entrepreneurship Act, the Ministry has shown a liberal judgement in which in many cases one has gone a long way in meeting the views of the counties. There has been an agreement in the discussions on approx. 95 pst. of non-residential properties. The agreement includes, inter alia: the vast majority of properties related to hospital operations and patient care themselves. With five counties there is no dispute over specific properties. Non-residents include disputes in the first series of pharmacies, some patient educational buildings and some property that counties believe will be withdrawn from the use of the specialist health service in the future. In the case of dwellings, the discussions reached agreement with eight counties. The result of the discussion implies that the specialist health services in these counties mainly take over the rights of approx. 70-90 pst. of the housing stock, on average approx. 80 pst. The system of the law presupposes that one assumes the actual situation of the individual county at the turn of the year and that the county councils have adapted differently with regard to the size and composition of the property stock. I also stress that for those states where there is a discussion result with agreement on e.g. dwellings are agreed between the department and the county concerned. Furthermore, discussions have taken place in such a way that the counties have had a good understanding of the solutions established for the other counties. On this basis, I believe that there has been an orderly process on the part of the state, where there has been an emphasis on safeguarding the assumptions of the Storting. Nor can I see that the county councils have been subjected to indiscriminate discrimination. It has always been provided that one should be able to use a denominator to clarify the remaining disagreements. In this context, I recall that the general rule of the Health Business Act implies that county-owned properties associated with the specialist health service at the turn of the year are to be transferred, in order to ensure the access of the specialist health service to the inputs that the county authorities themselves have considered necessary to carry out the same activity. When, for example: to the extent that no agreement has been reached with 11 out of 19 county municipalities on housing, it is related to the fact that in the discussions they indicated that they would not transfer without delay any housing, possibly too low a proportion of the dwellings. Let me then end by stressing that although there is a result of the discussions before the end of the year that involves some disagreement, I am open to a supplementary dialogue with the county councils to resolve remaining disagreements, both before the signing of the protocols and towards any consideration of remaining disagreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e907	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I note that the Minister of Health believes in his reply that the State has led a long way in discussing the county authorities' properties and taken over them in accordance with the leadership that Stortinget has attached to the legal text. However, after the information I have received, I cannot fail to point out that I, as the rapporteur of the case, like the Stortinget, was very concerned that this acquisition had to be done without any dispute in the legal system. One might get the impression that the level of conflict is well high, especially in housing and perhaps educational buildings. It was a pleasure to hear that the Council of State at least suggested a round number. 2nd@item: inlistbox My supplementary question is: is it so to understand that the Council of State is willing to go a round with the county municipalities that have now announced a dispute over the acquisition of special dwellings, but perhaps also educational buildings and possibly some other buildings that I do not want to go into here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e916	Let me stress that I don't just mean to have followed the Storting's assumptions, I think I've followed the Storing's assumptions. I must remind you that the decisions taken by the Stortinget and the timetable envisaged by the Stortinget for the implementation of the hospital reform made very great demands on all actors in this picture, including the county municipalities. It is not surprising, therefore, that this process has been demanding and partly influenced by differences in vision and direct conflicts. However, I fully agree with the representative of Kristoffersen that it is an objective to avoid many disputes in the judiciary. That is why I confirm that I am open to a supplementary dialogue with county councils who want to do so, before we finally decide which matters need to be sent to a committee. That is, of course, the mechanism envisaged by the Storting in the clarification process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e923	I give the Minister of Health credit for what he is now signaling. At the same time, I am fully aware that the department has worked very well and very effectively in a difficult process. So I think it's happened very well in a short time. I want to focus on one more thing that we haven't been into in this round. It is this way that the county should be able to take over the buildings and all the belongings to carry on a good health service — that means almost all of the buildings. It raised the question of this with the return clause, where the Stortinge said no to repatriate buildings. But then there are some cases in the practical everyday life where it may be unreasonable for the State to take over such buildings where one has actually already decided to shut down the business. One would think it only applies within parts of the psychiatry. Could it be that there are some cases where it is not reasonable for the county to give up properties that have actually been decided upon? I think of it as exceptional areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e930	The law must be understood as meaning that at the time of the transfer, the activity in question is the basis for assessing what is part of the specialist health service and what does not. We have noted that the Stortinget voted down a proposal for a general return clause and have therefore naturally not been able to offer such return clauses in the discussions with the county municipalities. With regard to the assessment of individual property cases, I find it difficult to go into it now other than to say that it must be the concrete status of taking over the business, which must be the starting point, as the law and its processors are to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e940	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In February 2001, Medi 3 in Ålesund was granted a hospital concession and has been included in the free choice of hospitals. In the context of the State budget of the year, it has also been decided to include Medi 3 in the ISF scheme of 2002. Now it turns out that this hospital, despite Storting's decision, has not yet entered into an agreement with the company under which they sort. Will the Council of State immediately ensure that these agreements are concluded so that operations can start after the intention?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e949	By adopting the 2002 State budget, new framework conditions for the use of Media 3 were established by the adoption of Media 3 as part of the effort-driven funding scheme. It is now possible to use this institution where it can contribute to the achievement of health policy objectives. There is a dialogue between Health Mid-Norway and Medi 3 for an agreement on defined treatment services. I stress that Health Mid-Norway must have the opportunity to follow up the case on the basis of its overall responsibility. But it is also important that the intention underlying the inclusion of Media 3 into the ISF is followed up. From this point of view, I would like to make sure that the follow-up that is taking place is consistent with the intentions of the adopted budget for 2002. In addition, the Department is working as well as being familiar with the creation of a broader scheme to combine the ISF scheme in a general way and free hospital choice for private hospitals. In the context of the Sem Declaration, work is now under way to make arrangements to integrate the private hospitals into the overall service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e958	I am fully aware that, according to the new rules on enterprise and governance there, this may be a doubt as to what the Storting is going to interfere with. But it is quite clear that in connection with St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 for 2001-2002 the Government of Bondevik presented proposals stating that this should be incorporated ‘from 2002 onwards’. It is not stated during 2002 but that the hospital will be integrated from 2002. The situation is that the agreements are not yet in place. I am also aware that there has been a discussion with companies about whether it is the regional health company or Health Sunnmare that is to conclude these agreements. Does the Minister of Health agree with the intention that it is Health Mid-Norway that is responsible for concluding these kinds of agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e965	I am pleased with this marking by the representative of Nesvik that one here has to balance what is general health policy, and what are operational issues. I indicated that there is now a dialogue going on between Health Mid-Norway and Media 3 about an agreement. And I have to say that in the light of the great change and reorganisation that has occurred a few weeks ago, Health Mid-Norway admits some time to put in place all its agreements when it comes to agreements the county councils have not had before. But I want to make sure, as I said in my first answer, that the follow-up that is taking place is consistent with the intentions of the budget line to which the representative Nesvik referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e970	I thank you for that. I noticed, of course, that the Council of State said he'd give Health Mid-Norway some time, and I'm willing to do that in a number of different things. But just in this case, where we are talking about a big decision in line with the draft budget in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4, which envisages that the agreement will apply from 2002 and will not begin to apply during 2002, and it is specified in the budget, it must be expected that it will take place shortly. In fact, I think we should be able to expect it now. We have already come over one month into the new year, we are now writing February 2002, and there is still no agreement in place. So my question to the Minister of Health is whether he wants to contact Health Mid-Norway to find out where this matter stands, and possibly get ahead of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e975	I tried in my first response to the representative Nesvik to state that that was exactly what had happened. There has been contact with Health Mid-Norway. It has been confirmed to me that the process is well underway. I undertake to ensure that Stortinget's intentions are respected, and then the representative Nesvik should also be reassured about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e983	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Health Nord has decided to cut 60 million. krona at the University Hospital of North Norway without a previous public debate. The cut threatens a good, safe and complete hospital offer in North Norway. Will the Council of State instruct the Governing Board to reverse this decision, and how will the Council of State ensure that such decisions will not be taken in the future without public transparency and debate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e992	As stated in the additional government number of the draft government budget, with such a great transition as is now taking place for public hospitals, there will be some uncertainty about the overall budgetary situation. It is therefore warned to the Storting that there will be a review of the budgetary situation in relation to the revised national budget in spring. In this situation, on the basis of the Storting budget decision, emphasis has been placed on maintaining the high level of treatment established in 2001 in hospitals, while stressing measures to improve the use of hospital resources in line with the intentions of the reform. This is the framework for the budgetary follow-up that is now taking place in regional health businesses. I am aware that there are significant challenges to this both for regional health businesses and for health businesses, in this case for Health Nord and the University Clinic in North Norway. I record that Health Nord places emphasis on both productivity-enhancing measures and that there is a long-term perspective on improvement measures. In this situation and with the assumptions I have given here, I do not find it right to intervene in the health of the North's budgetary follow-up. I also add that any intervention of the proposed type will break with a very important element of the new business model, namely the overall responsibility of the boards of regional health companies. I trust that it will be worked out on the basis of strategies to further develop a good health service and a good university clinic for the country. For its part, the size will have the opportunity to return to the hospital economy in the revised national budget. There are also questions of transparency and debate in the decision-making process. I remind you that the new business model has the task of implementing the health policy decided upon by national democratic bodies, with the Storting at the top. The implementation of these decisions with loyalty and force is also an important democratic element. Nor is it the case that the framework conditions laid down by the Storting for the new undertakings imply that their implementation takes place in some form of complete closure. The disclosure law applies to undertakings. I expect an active follow-up of information from companies. I have now asked companies to set up user committees, which will also contribute to greater transparency. As is well known, the proposal for health enterprise law proposed regional Council bodies, precisely on the basis of the aim of strengthening contact with local policy environments. This was one of the few provisions of the bill that was not adopted by the Stortinget. However, in the further dialogue with enterprises, I would like to stress that appropriate forms of contact can be developed with regional and local administrations. The new business model shall combine two important considerations — nationally defined health policies shall be implemented in a loyal and effective manner, and their implementation shall be carried out with the good participation of those affected. There are principles that I will focus on following up on further efforts to implement this major reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e999	I would first like to thank you for your answer. SV has previously responded and been very critical to closed board meetings in healthcare companies. Governments in Stortinget replied to questions from SV that they initially agreed to open processes around health policy, but that they wanted to gain experience from both models, i.e. from both closed and open meetings of the Governing Board. What has now happened in Health North is a result of closed processes. Health policy has been removed from people – from popular influence, from debate and from engagement around the issue. Result: Only through the media has it been known that it has been decided to cut 60 million. kr – without getting a reason why the cuts have happened and how they could have been done, i.e. how one could have prioritised differently. Does the Minister of Health see this issue, which is very important in the north, both for public and political commitment and for confidence in good health policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1010	When the reform was adopted, I think the Stortinget was strongly concerned with the overall political and popular governance of health policy. That is why they wanted to bring together an overall responsibility for hospital operations in this room. This reform provides for an exemption and accountability of hospitals as undertakings by the appointment of members on the boards of undertakings, not as representatives of political parties or of geographical regions, but by virtue of their personal suitability. I think it'll be a threat to democracy if we drag these board members into party political processes. But when that is said, I would also like to say that I think a lot can be done in developing a good dialogue – hearings, contact meetings, county planning processes, etc. – between the enterprises and the regional elected bodies, i.e. the municipalities and counties. I'll work for that. And then – as the representative Lena Jensen was in the house – we are going to gain experience from the companies that have actually chosen open meetings and see how it has worked. I'm going to have a prejudiced attitude in the assessment of those experiences. But it's a little early to draw the conclusion after six weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1021	I would like to thank you for your answer. Health policy is one of the most important policy areas in Norway, ensuring that health services are easily accessible, secure and equal throughout Norway. A 60-million-dollar cut. kr to Universitetssykehuset Nord-Norway is a real and big cut. One of the most important arguments for the state to take over hospitals was easier access to resources and easier access to governance. When Troms County was in charge of hospitals in the north, it was tough, but through a popular and broad debate, it was possible to ensure a good and secure hospital service – which often also affected other important policy areas in the county. The Council of State says that he wants a review of the revised national budget and that he will follow up the question of open/closed board meetings. I hope that the Council of State has taken inward the signals that have come from the north, and the signals that have come from different political environments, in relation to how difficult the open process and the open debate about maintaining a good hospital in the north are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1032	I can assure the representative Lena Jensen that I am most closely following developments in the way the reform works. I think it is important to follow developments with an open mind, regardless of the point of view of the reform when it was adopted. It was not that everything was very well, that it was not cut in operation, and that there were no geographical differences during county operations. On the contrary, of the waiting list numbers from the last year of county hospitalisation, there are large geographical differences between counties in waiting times. I want to use this reform actively and constructively to create better available health services and to create less geographical differences. And if anyone thought that the reform was going to give the hospital directors direct access to the state fund, they've been wrong. I think we need to talk about that clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1041	In line with the notified changes, we are now going to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1047	This question, from the representative André Kvakkestad to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1050	I want to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘The size sought to facilitate the conversion of foreign education into equivalent approved Norwegian education. It is also Stortinget's wish that one can build on education to acquire full competence without having to start all over again. Human dieck therapists from the Netherlands have previously been approved as physiotherapists if they have taken additional subjects in addition. Why has this practice now changed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1059	Initially, I would like to clarify that the authorisation system for healthcare professionals is intended to contribute to the safety of patients and to the quality of healthcare as well as to the confidence of healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals. It is therefore a fundamental condition for obtaining authorisation as a healthcare professional to apply for, among other things. have been trained to meet the relevant professional requirements. The Health Act regulates 27 different health professionals’ groups that may receive authorisation. Human dieck therapists are not an authorised group in Norway and therefore the professional title is not protected either. This means that a person with general education can pursue the profession and call himself a folkdieck Gymnast in Norway without applying for an authorisation or licence. It will be the health care employer in Norway who will decide whether there will be a need to add persons with such training. After I have been informed, the Dutch folkdieck education does not qualify for authorization as physiotherapist in the Netherlands. For this reason, neither does Council Directive 89/48/EEC on the mutual recognition of diplomas apply to applications for authorisation as physiotherapist in Norway. However, Norwegian folkdieck education follows the same framework as physiotherapy training and both qualify for authorisation as physiotherapist in Norway. The past practice to which the representative Kukkestad refers is long overdue. Later, the requirements for training as a physiotherapist have changed several times, both in the EU and Norway. The assessment theme for the recognition of applicants for foreign education is whether the foreign education is equivalent to Norwegian education or whether the applicant can otherwise demonstrate the necessary skill. In December 2001, both the State Office for Health Professionals and the Board of Appeal of the State Health Personnel Department rejected a specific application from a person with a Dutch so-called Cesar education, who in the Netherlands is equal to the human-dieck education. The refusals were based on an in-depth assessment by the University of Oslo of Dutch education and were among others. justified on the fact that the training has many, and also significant, shortcomings in relation to Norwegian humandieck or physiotherapy training. The higher education institution could therefore not consider Dutch folkdieck education to be equivalent to Norwegian human-dieck or physiotherapy training. It was also stressed that the training of complainants does not qualify for authorisation as a physiotherapist in the Netherlands. In my opinion, the assessment of Dutch human thickness training by Norwegian health authorities seems reasonable as it also does not lead to authorisation as physiotherapist in the Netherlands. Let me also say that I am generally concerned with contributing to simplifications in the authorisation schemes in this field. I would therefore like to take the initiative to review the whole authorisation system with a view to maximising simplification within the regulatory framework we have and, if necessary, to come to the Stortinget with proposals for legislative changes in order to contribute to further simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1076	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. But what was the starting point for the question was not only whether the current training that he has is to be approved, but also whether he can also be given the opportunity to take additional training instead of re-starting completely. I understand that you don't want to do anything about it. Furthermore, it is worth noting that the Oslo High School provided two answers to the question of whether this should be accepted — a yes and a no. The Department of Health and Human Diocese and Physiotherapy Training concluded that this should be approved. Does the Council of State wish to take an initiative to focus more on the additional training you can take to qualify, rather than to put everyone on the school bench to take the same subjects and the same professional combinations that you have already taken? Since it cannot be appropriate either for the economy or for the school capacity or for the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1085	For the sake of order, let me draw attention to the fact that we are now moving into the frontier country towards the responsibility of the Minister of Education. I will therefore refrain from making any real-life assessments of the question of how and on what basis to build a course of education in Norway with a foreign education. The general scheme is that it is initially the educational institutions themselves who have to assess the value of foreign education and what it is worth in relation to what might be built on in Norway. But let me in general say that we are busy having a good access to health professionals in Norway, also with foreign education and origin. It has to be done in a clean manner, and it has to be done on a good professional basis. I will be constantly looking for simplifications in the administration and in the legislation on this, so that we can have a smooth supply, based on soundness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1094	I agree that this almost belongs to the Minister of Education and Research, and that was in itself the Council of State I wanted to get answers from. It is a little strange that the Minister of Health did not see this in the question, where it says that ‘it is also Stortinget’s wish that one can build on education in order to acquire full competence’, etc. That the government then chose to let another state council answer, I just got to take note. Is it the case that the Minister of Health could expect to take an initiative with the Minister of Education and Research in order to get a clearer policy on continuing training for foreign education as well, instead of starting from scratch, to start all over again?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1101	I will not go into any polemics with the representative Kukkestad about who answers what questions. However, the specific question asked by the representative Kukkestad is linked to authorisation as a physiotherapist in Norway, and it is the responsibility of the health minister. Therefore, the two Councils agreed on this division of labour. I am aware that information related to the education sector is part of the premise for this issue. From the Ministry of Health we have a good dialogue with the Ministry of Education and Research on these issues. We are concerned that there should be a link between what the education sector is doing and what the health sector is doing in relation to how we value foreign education. I will be allowed to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1108	So we go to question 2. This question, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1117	I have asked the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and have accepted that they are answered by the Minister for Development. Otherwise it had to be postponed a week, and it's too long, because here's the matter of time: ‘A woman in a Muslim state in Nigeria has been sentenced to death by stoning because she has born a child after divorce. Does the Norwegian authorities do anything to influence Nigeria’s central government to intervene?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1126	Nigeria is characterised by considerable internal tensions, not least in the north, where eleven of the Länder have introduced Sharia legislation on their own. Together with the traditional rivalry between the three largest ethnic groups — Yoruba, Hausa and Ibo — these tensions can have very serious consequences for the further development of the country. The Norwegian authorities have received several requests from individuals to communicate to the President of Nigeria that he must pardon that woman – Safya Hosseini Tungar Tudu – who has been sentenced to death in a Sharia court in the state of Sokoto for having a child outside marriage. Safyia Hosseini has filed an appeal against the judgment of Sokoto State Sharia Court of Appeal. The anchor should initially have been dealt with in January, but is provisionally suspended until 18 March. The outcome may be appealed to the Federal Court of Appeal and the Nigerian Supreme Court. If these were to support the stone sentence, the governor of the State of Sokoto must finally approve the execution of the stone. President Obasanjo and the Nigerian Government thus have no formal influence in the proceedings, and the Sharia Court judgment has been very contrary to the wishes of the President and the Federal Government. The federal authorities have inter alia: sent three lawyers to assist the defense of Safya Hosseini. This should be the first time a Sharia verdict has been filed in Nigeria. Safyia and her family are also supported by a Nigerian Human Rights Organisation (BAOBAB) with a high level of competence on Muslim women's rights. Our embassy in Lagos follows the case against Safya Husseini carefully. Neither Norway nor other Western countries have so far resorted to public criticism of the judgment. This assessment is in line with recommendations from the human rights community and Safya's own lawyers in Nigeria, who consider her position to be very vulnerable. It goes without saying that we will continue to follow this matter very closely. We will maintain close contact with other countries and human rights organisations to see if there is anything more we can do. We hope that the Federal Appeals Board will uphold the death sentence of the Sharia Court of Sokoto State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1143	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough answer, for a thorough explanation. It's a very special case. In the Muslim state of Sokoto, a 35-year-old woman has committed the crime of giving birth to a child after a completed divorce. It's also very special in Nigeria, and the Council of State, of course, knows that you have Sharia legislation, because it's a Muslim minority we're talking about, and it's a fundamentalist minority. It's a barbaric -- and I'll almost call it an old-fashioned -- manner that we're talking about. It is also true, as was said, that the Land itself determines this legal system. I also want to add that 3,000 people have been killed in riots just since the Sharia legislation was introduced two years ago, and that this is probably not the last thing we see. I believe that the international community cannot accept the atrocities committed against women in such societies. The Safyia case is now becoming an international symbol case. Although Western governments keep a low profile, the international press is very concerned about this matter. I will therefore continue to ask the Government to exercise the discretion it must be to exercise the pressure, at any time, in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1154	I just want to first reserve maybe the expression ‘oldestestestimate’ for other kinds of practices. I do not know if there is written evidence for this. Besides, this is not a matter of using any sense of humor. This is very serious, and I share the representative's assessments of it. There's no doubt about it. President Obasanjo is in a very difficult situation when several states self-declared to introduce sharia legislation. It is quite correct, as the representative says, that there are considerable tensions in Nigeria, not only ethnic but also partly religious in relation to the very use of Sharia legislation. The government attaches great importance to women's rights. What we have to do in this case is consider how we should do it in such a way that we take care of Safya's case in the best possible way. As I said in my first answer, her position is considered very vulnerable, and that means that we also need to make a very careful assessment of how this should be handled in relation to the environment in Nigeria. We don't want to risk her getting into an even more difficult situation, so that's the basis. However, the exposure is very heavy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1163	I'm not going to be in any definition debate, but it's probably not entirely random that stoning in English is called Biblical Punishment. Then I would like to stress that Norway holds the Human Rights Tab very high, and the Council of State is among those who have done so. Isn't it time for us to take seriously the trampling on women's human dignity and the deprivation of human rights that we see in more and more countries? Also, because Sharia legislation is spreading, this is happening in several countries. We see that male elites use religion and culture as a tool for social control of women and resort to cruel abuse. I mean – and I know that the Council of State agrees with me on this – that you can never be culturally related to human rights. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is such that the Government will also in its international human rights exposure intensify its efforts to prevent such judgments from being passed – i.e. trying to improve the overall human rights situation for women.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1170	There is no doubt about the Government's commitment to women's rights. An important human rights fight that is also particularly topical now is women's rights in Afghanistan, which is a country that we can also see will be enshrined in Sharia legislation for the new government. It's not yet clear, but it can go in that direction. This means that the importance of focusing on women's rights is all the more important, and also the importance of doing so in a way that can be achieved. So here it's important to keep the tab high. At the same time, it is important to find tools and ways to influence which allow a reasonable chance of impact and success. So here you also have to use cultural competence, even though I fully agree with the big business representative's assessment that it's not that it can mean that we can go on chords with fundamental rights. It is therefore important to have both an instrument debate and an instrument debate. And just for the representative's briefing: the new director of the UNDP, UNFPA, is a Saudi woman. She's working a lot on just these questions, and I think it can be exciting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1179	We're going to go to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1186	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘After the Minister of Oil and Energy’s meeting with Natural Power and their owners last week, there has been considerable doubt as to what is the Government’s position on the concessions given to the company for the construction of gas power plants. Can I therefore ask the Council of State to explain what signals were given in response to the forces of Nature, and what are the Government's views on the possible extension of the company's concessions?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1195	On Tuesday 29 January, a meeting was held in the Ministry of Oil and Energy at the request of Naturkraft AS. The company wanted to discuss a possible cooperation programme for the deposit and clean-up of CO2 in gas power plants and any conditions for the extension of natural power concessions with regard to the entry into service of the two planned gas power plants at Kårstø and Kolsnes. In the meeting I was willing to consider any extension of the concessions based on a cooperation on the construction of CO2-free gas power plants. I stressed that the conditions were so far not discussed in the Government. In the light of the reactions that emerged after the meeting, the matter was discussed in greater detail with the other government parties. The conclusion was published in a press release on Friday 1 February and can briefly be summarised as follows: The Minister of Oil and Energy's call and proposals for Natural Power have the government's support. If the force of nature does not find that it would seek the extension of concessions under these conditions, the matter will be dealt with in an ordinary manner. Section 18.3 of the Pollution Act with regard to new technologies that are commercially available will be given decisive importance. The government sees it as very important to establish framework conditions for the realisation of CO2-free gas power plants. Time is working for this. In order to achieve rational, robust and forward-looking solutions, we are now assessing a variety of incentives, framework conditions and models in a dialogue with the industry. I am pleased that there seems to be increasing support in the Storting for such a policy. The Government has decided that a project group, chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, will develop proposals to specify the measures and support mechanisms of this cooperation programme. The size of these proposals will be able to be addressed later this year when the landfill notification on the use of gas is addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1211	The working party is also committed to using it at all times as environmentally friendly technology, including in relation to gas power plants. It has to be clear. I am pleased with the retreat that Steensnæs now actually does, and as he also did on Friday, for the signals given in the encounter with Nature Power and their owners were most contradictory. On the one hand, a demand was made for the construction of CO2-free gas power plants, but at the same time the company was not to be given the time they thought they needed to develop the technology to achieve that goal. In addition, it was quite clear – as I understood Right’s reaction, and as our reaction was – that the waters with which the Council of State operated were contrary to the majority of the Storting. Because I feel that the Council of State with this answer is not quite clear, I would like to ask: can the Council of State now guarantee that the company will have the time they are asking for, so that it will be in line with what a majority in Stortinget wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1220	I can assure the representative Sylvia Brustad that I am going to continue the fight for the gas power plants to be built in this country to be CO2-free, and I am, as I said, glad that there is increasing support in the Stortinget for this. So now, natural force has made it clear that there is no commercial basis for the construction of such conventional gas power plants. This, of course, gives us an opportunity to get through in collaboration with Natural Forces to build CO2-free gas power plants. But, of course, if such cooperation is to be established, it means an obligation for both parties, and this must be clarified with the force of Nature. My suggestion in the meeting with Natural Power was just to give time. I offered Natural Power to extend the conventional gas power plant concessions to commit cooperation in the case of CO2-free gas power plants. Today, conventional gas power stations are no alternative. But I can say that the Government will of course deal with the assumptions that the Storting at any time determines – in this case as in all other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1227	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am happy for what he says. After this meeting, it was at least clear that the Council of State had made clear demands for the extension of the concession. It was contrary to what a majority in the United Kingdom wanted, not because a majority in the United Kingdom does not also want the most environmentally friendly technology available at all times, but because the company itself says that they need more time to get to the technology that can provide as close as possible CO2-free gas power plants. Let me then – just to make it clear – ask one more time: Can the Council of State guarantee that the company will have the time they need to approach a technology for CO2-free gas power plants, and – if they believe that it is not possible to do so – that they will still have time and opportunity to build what they have actually received?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1236	It is not possible to apply concession treatment in Stortinget. I also did not receive any concession treatment during the meeting with Naturkraft. If natural force requests an extension of the concession period, it shall be subject to the normal procedure, with the consultation rounds, the appeal period and the appropriate procedure necessary. From this I will base the Storing's assumptions and the treatment framework. However, I stress that Section 18.3 of the Directive will always be based on the best technology, and in this case it will also be arduous if natural power finds it difficult to build conventional gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1244	This question, from the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1247	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘The evaluation of free short-term kindergarten offers for all 4- and 5-year-olds in Old Oslo city shows very positive results. The Councils of State have called for the introduction of this scheme only for immigrant children throughout the country. Will the Council of State implement this, or will she ensure that this offer benefits all children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1256	First of all, I have to point out that the claim in the question is incorrect. I have not proposed introducing a scheme for immigrant children only. It is true, as the representative of Orheim says in the question, that the evaluation of the offer of free short-term kindergarten in Old Oslo shows very positive results. I have to make it clear, for the sake of order, that this is just the offer for the five-year-olds who have been evaluated. The four-year-olds’ offer was launched later and is planned to be evaluated by the end of this year. When all the evaluation reports are available, of course, I will also carry out a thorough review of the results of the trial project as a whole. In this round, however, I will first carefully evaluate the results obtained for the 5-year-olds before deciding whether to continue a free kindergarten offer. We have not concluded on the issue of whether the offer should only be given to children with a minority background, or whether it should include all children, or be a scheme for children with language difficulties, regardless of ethnic background. A State Secretary’s own committee has discussed various integration measures in relation to children and young people. In this context, a cross-ministerial working group has been set up to investigate and propose different models of Norwegian training for pre-school children with a minority language background and their parents. In practice, this usually means mothers. The working group shall work quickly and shall also assess and assess the consequences of any continued free part-time offer. In the first instance, it may be appropriate to test more models of such Norwegian training in several municipalities and urban areas than Old Oslo, but a decision on this needs to be taken at the back of the recommendations of the working group. I can assure you that the will to do something is there, and that the focus will be on the possibility of better Norwegian knowledge and language training in a prevention perspective, as the Prime Minister has also pointed out in the Questionnaire earlier. It may then be natural to link some of this follow-up to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1267	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I'm glad that the claim is not correct, but I'm returning the question if the Council of State is open to offer only to immigrant children. I would like to point out that it can have negative consequences for integration very quickly, because it will cause irritation among Norwegian parents who do not receive corresponding free supplies. What we have uniquely offered in Old Oslo is that it has our free for everyone within that district. It's 98 pst. by the young, and so it has our success. I have actually visited these kindergartens, and we extended the evaluation period precisely because the measure was so positive. So I have to ask you one more time: is the Council of State still open to offer only to immigrants? Or is she at least aware that this can give negative effects to these kids?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1276	Like the representative, I have also visited two of these kindergartens, and that was a great experience. The question is whether a targeted action like this, linked to the needs of some children for better Norwegian training and better integration, will work negative if not all children receive the same offer. It's an interesting issue, but it's a long step to go, from a limited attempt in a metropolitan part of Oslo where the majority of the children actually come from different minorities, to the proposal on the issue, namely, free kindergarten for all children, which the Workers' Party here is calling for. Following the evaluation round and the work currently under way, including: in the working group, I am committed to finding the best solutions for children who need language training before school starts, as well as better integration. I am sure that we will be able to find arrangements that will solve the problem that has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1285	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its answer. The workforce has ambitions to get kindergartens much cheaper, and that they should be free of charge for those who think least, because we are fans of graduated rates. I might well want to ask about the views of the Council of State on this, because in addition to this free offer, which is probably primarily intended for special urban areas where there are large sections of immigrants, it will be important to use other tools to reach those who have the least income, and who may also have a home-living mother who does not pay extras to send the kids to kindergarten. I have to say that the Council of State has created a little wild reire about the price – whether it is NOK 1500, as the Christian People's Party has said, or NOK 1500–2,000. In addition, I would like to ask, does the Council of State have a system of grading these nursery bets?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1294	We have a clear objective of reducing kindergarten prices in Norway. We have a clear plan for this by the end of 2005, which I have said several times before in Stortinget. Perhaps one of the most important tools will be a change in the funding mechanism, which I expect the representative to know, that it will be a first step on the way. Then we will follow up on what the Storting has also been dedicated to, namely getting public funding up to 80 pst., and that the parents will then pay 20 pst. of the operating costs of kindergartens. We work intensively for this. This is a major reform which will lead us to arrive at approx. halving the nursery prices by the end of this period. That's our goal, and we're working for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1301	Question 13 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1307	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Education and Research: ‘Holden Free School Foundation wants to establish a new school at Idd. Their application is now in the department. According to the Education Association in Halden, the school will have an entry code that excludes students who need special education. What does the Council of State think of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1316	The Halden Friskole Foundation applied on 14 September 2001 for the approval of a primary school under the Private School Act. The rules on admission, annexed to the application, show, inter alia, that: that the school wishes to make a specific assessment of its ability to accept students who need additional resources. It is clear from the Private School Act that schools approved by law cannot impose requirements for admission other than the public school. If the school application exceeds the school’s capacity, the school may give priority to applicants for the school’s purposes. This is evident from the pre-worker of the law. Students in private schools approved under the Private School Act have the same special education rights as students in similar public schools, and the respective home municipalities of the pupils cover the costs of special education. This includes, inter alia: that a school approved under the private school law cannot refuse an application for admission because the student needs special education. In a letter dated 28 September 2001, the Ministry recommended the Halden Foundation to make several changes to the application. The Ministry has, among other things: recommended by the Foundation to delete the point in the Input Regulation which deals with the admission of students with the need for additional resources. The Ministry has received feedback from the letter of the Foundation on 4 December 2001. The letter states that they do not wish to comply with the Ministry’s request to delete the point of the regulation that concerns admission of students with additional resources. The application is being examined in the department, and I intend to settle the matter within a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1327	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Based on what the Council of State now says, Halden Friskole does not want to delete the point that we, among other things, want to delete. I'm talking about here, about excluding those who need special education, I kind of understand that she'll be very sceptical about approving such an application. It says, among other things: in the application that the intake assessment will include ‘if the student requires resources that the school is unable to provide’ — it is clear that there may be a great deal — and ‘if the environment is able to accept the student’ — and what does that mean? The Workers' Party believes that this would be a violation of the private school law, and that it is therefore not possible to approve such an application. Now we hear here that Halden Freiskole will not withdraw the point of the application that we are talking about here. Does the Council agree that the application cannot be accepted?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1341	I can assure the representative Sign Eye that I intend not to break the private school law. The law allows the Council of State to exercise discretion, but there are a number of parts of the law that are not subject to discretion. As far as such applications are concerned, I think it is most appropriate for the applicant to receive an answer to the application directly and not via the Spokesman of the Grand Duchy. I assume that I am not going to approve schools that reserve the right to refuse admission applications from students because they need special education. I can probably add that in connection with such applications it is not unusual that there is a dialogue between the ministry and he is applying for individual elements of the application, and that I have been given certain indications that such a dialogue is taking place. If necessary, it must be completed before we finally decide on this application, and then I will inform the applicant of the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1350	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I understand that the Council of State also believes this is a violation of the private school law. Now it's also the case that Halden Free School requires a quarter of the teacher's salary to go back to school, as a sort of hard work. There may be ideological reasons for that, and it's a voluntary arrangement. The working party believes that it must be a matter of concern to have such a scheme as to pay. It is clear that such systems exclude large groups of teachers, for example. Lonely caregivers. Otherwise you have to be married to someone who makes a lot of money, or be in special stages of life etc. which allows you to take a job in such a school. Kristin Clemet has previously stated that private school should contribute to more diversity. Does the Council of State think that these restrictions that emerge here contribute to more diversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1359	I do not know all the aspects of this application in detail, but the private school law is such that some criteria, requirements, are absolute. Besides, there's a great deal of discretion, and it's not so very perceptive if that discretion is exercised a little bit different from different political managements. I have previously stated that I think it is an unfortunate large room of discretion. I believe that it creates a small degree of predictability and legal certainty for applicants. We therefore intend to revise the private school law, simply because we do not think it is that good. With regard to the individual details of this application, I am unable to comment on them here and now. I have entered this application at the point where I got a question. In addition, I do not know all the details of the dialogue between the applicant and the department, including: because some of the dialogue took place before the government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1370	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The salmon agreement between Norway and the European Union expires at the end of the month of June/July 2002 and must therefore be renegotiated. In the current salmon agreement, Norway has a minimum price scheme of approx. 25-26 kroner, while the current salmon price on the EU market is about Sixteen dollars for breeding. Norwegian breeders are therefore forced to break the minimum price rules if they are to be able to sell salmon on the Union market. What will the Government do in the short and long term to ensure a stable and profitable market access for Norwegian salmon on the EU market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1379	The market access of Norwegian salmon industry to the EU is of great importance to Norway and it occupies the Government to a very high degree. In the following I want to explain the government's work on finding good solutions for Norway and Norwegian salmon exporters. The lease worked well for a long time, but recent developments in the salmon market have illustrated the limitations of the agreement. In view of the fact that Norwegian exporters in addition to the autumn had difficulties in converting salmon in line with the agreement, the Norwegian authorities, in consultation with the trade organisations, requested the Commission to reduce and suspend the minimum price of the agreement. At the request of the Commission, the Norwegian authorities also provided the necessary evidence to enable such changes to be implemented. We have received signals that the Commission will meet us by suspending the minimum price determination for a transitional period until a long-term solution has been found. However, the Commission sees to itself to impose a penalty duty of about 14 pst. in Norwegian salmon during this transitional period. It is also likely that an investigation will be initiated with a view to assessing whether the conditions underpinning the salmon agreement have changed. The European Commission has invited representatives from the Norwegian civil service and the salmon industry to a meeting in Brussels today. One will then explain to the Commission how one sees a short-term solution. At the same time, an alternative option from Norway will be presented for both a short-term and a long-term solution. The government is in dialogue with the Commission with a view to avoiding the establishment of criminal duties on Norwegian exports to the EU. I had constructive meetings last Monday with Trade Commissioner Pascal Lamy and Fisheries Commissioner Franz Fischler to express Norwegian views on the matter. However, it may seem that the possibilities of avoiding short-term criminal tariffs are limited. It is very important to establish solutions after the expiry of the salmon agreement in the summer of 2002. Several options are available, and the Norwegian authorities, once again in close dialogue with industry, have worked to establish a new salmon event. A sketch for a new event, without minimum prices, was therefore handed over to the Commission already in the autumn. On a number of occasions, the government has raised the issue of a new long-term salmon event with the EU. This was therefore a central theme of my meetings with Commissioner Fischler on 12 January in Berlin, and no later than two days ago in Brussels. Foreign Minister Jan Petersen and Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik have also recently addressed these issues in meetings with Spanish colleagues. Spain currently holds as well-known EU Presidency. The government continues this work in the future with considerable pressure to ensure that Norwegian interests are safeguarded in the best possible way. I am ready to resume meetings with the EU Commissioners or other interested parties outside the borders of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1398	I thank you for a good answer. It was a pleasure to hear that you want to waive the suspension. It is a commendable and necessary initiative for this industry by the Minister of Fisheries and the Government to improve market access for Norwegian salmon to the EU, especially in the short term. This is a situation that needs to be resolved soon, and here I understand that we are doing well, so that Norwegian salmon exporters can have equal market access to the EU as competing nations. My follow-up question is: is there anything we can do in this house to remedy the long-term situation, so that we can have a stable and secure market access for Norwegian salmon to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1405	The matter is so serious and so important to an important part of the Norwegian fishing industry that all good forces now have to stand together to influence the EU to meet Norway. In this way, the efforts of industry, the government and individual wholesalers are of importance. We have made it quite clear to the European Union that, with an EEA agreement and a salmon agreement, we find it unreasonable that Norwegian exporters have worse framework conditions than other third countries, non-members. From Pascal Lamy, Head of DG Trade of the Commission, we were told the other day that Norway is not considered as any third country in this context. In this way, I'm optimistic about finding solutions. However, we must not underestimate the problems that exist, given that it has been made clear that this will be dealt with in terms of the law to which the European Union relates.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1412	I thank you again for the answer. I fully agree with the Minister for Fisheries in his considerations. I believe that this industry should have the same conditions as other industries in the trade agreement between Norway and the EU, in the EEA Agreement. The industry has contributed significant financial resources through the export levy in the salmon agreement which has gone into a joint marketing operation. The industry has further signalled a significantly larger amount for marketing if the minimum price is removed. At the same time, the government has signalled a future investment in the farming industry and the marine sector. So my next question is: is the government willing to use economic instruments to achieve a stable, long-term agreement for the export of salmon to the EU market?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1421	Now it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One concerns the short-term solution to the acute problem. There will be negotiations on this in Brussels in these minutes. I will not go too far into it, but from the Norwegian side we see it as more interesting to stimulate and expand the consumer market for salmon than to impose an additional cost on Norwegian exporters like a penalty duty. We're invited to discuss these issues, and I think we should have the patience to do this. I remember that in 1997 we had a market share for salmon on the EU market of 67 pst. Now it's down to 54 pst. It tells us that the salmon agreement and the minimum price, as the industry itself wanted, which is a product of its own desire, have now been to the detriment of the industry. That is why it is important that we solve the emergency, and then we will find a new arrangement that replaces the salmon agreement when it expires in September 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1432	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘It is now about one year since the Government lifted the self-imposed ban on exports of qualifying products. Why hasn't export started?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1441	Following the decision by the previous government in January 2001 to open up the export of Norwegian wafer products, a regulation opening up the export of wafer products under certain conditions has been laid down. The regulation states that the export authorisation will only be granted to the recipient country which has a system of sampling for the DNA testing of the imported consignment. The system shall prevent illegal capture and smuggling as a possible consequence of trade in Norwegian wafer products. Neither Japan nor Iceland, which are the most relevant markets for the wavy products, have confirmed that they have such a system. The opening-up of these markets to imports of such products is constantly under way. With regard to Japan, there have been recent official meetings in October and December last year, and further meetings are planned in February and March. In relation to Iceland, just before Christmas, I raised these questions with the Icelandic Minister for Fisheries. They also confirm that they are interested, but that they do not have the legislation in place. The answer to the question of why exports have not started is that Norway has opened for exports, but Japan and Iceland, like the most relevant importers, have not opened for imports. So simple and yet so difficult is the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1450	I thank you for a short and helpful answer. The problem is also that export is urgent. There are now many tonnes of qualifying products in stock, and it is limited how long they can last before the quality becomes so bad that the products have no market value at all. The follow-up question is therefore: If Iceland and Japan do not have such a system, while Norway has it – because we have to be able to take some tests to make sure that one can feel it on new tests – is it not then possible that Norway can offer Japan and Iceland such equipment, if there is a lack of equipment on it? If the legislation is in place, we might be able to pass over our own legislation, which I expect is so good that it can be done for these countries to open up to import, because it is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1459	Yes, I fully agree that export is urgent, because there is considerable quantity in stock. But we're dependent on someone buying, and so far both Iceland and Japan, as the only ones, have said they're interested, but they haven't opened up for imports. We have, as I also pointed out in my first answer, had recurring meetings. We have practiced considerable pressure, but until the seventh and last time, it is up to the buyers to decide when to start and make a purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1464	Yeah, we're just going to put the cancers in. I expect that the Council of State, which is also the Minister of Cooperation of the Nordic Council, has the opportunity to influence, perhaps especially with regard to Iceland. I have experienced myself in the Nordic Council that Sweden in particular was not so configured that Iceland should start with qualifying. But I'm assuming that a person from Iceland's side gets more interested, because they're also going to export and sell their qualifying product, that they become more active when it's now also being opened for squalidity for Iceland, and that one of them can get a Nordic collaboration to open up a market, especially in Japan. There are also a number of other countries that can become relevant, and perhaps one of them can experience Nordic cooperation that can give a positive result.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1471	Sweden has not been among the most relevant exporting countries. On the other hand, I have ongoing contact with the Icelandic authorities on this matter. In the case of Japan, we consider whether the State Council should visit Japan as well to exercise pressure on this case. In that case, it will happen during the spring. We have a significant pressure, and we also know the pressure – I kept saying – from both the stocks, which are there, and the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1479	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Aarsetther Vardø AS in Finnmark has recently invested in new fillet plant, including with public support through SND. The dimensioning of the new plant means that the company cannot accept fish over 2,7 kg because the fillet machine cannot work with larger fish. Should dimensioning of fillet facilities be required to prevent them from compromising the objective of sustainable management of fish resources?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1488	When asked if we should impose requirements on the dimensioning of fillet facilities in order to prevent them from counteracting the objective of sustainable management of fish resources, the short variant of my answer is that I don't think that would be sensible policy. If I were to elaborate on it a little bit, I justify it with the following: Aarsetther in Finnmark has many years of experience in the operation of filet production. The new plant is therefore planned and built on the basis of historical experience of the size composition of the fish landed in the county and what can result in profitable production. In recent years, the fishing industry, especially the fillet industry, has had problems in achieving profitable operations. There are currently significant price differences for cod above and below 2,5 kg. For the fillet industry it will be difficult to obtain profitable operation if one uses cod greater than 2,5 kg as raw material. Cod larger than 2,5 kg is currently mainly used for salting and drying. I have been informed that the company buys all kinds of fish and all sizes, if the fish keeps the necessary quality for fillet production. The large fish landed at the company’s plant in Vardø are transported to the company’s farm in Båtsfjord for processing into salt fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1499	I thank you for the answer, and I understand that the Minister for Fisheries believes that it would not be sensible to make demands for dimensioning. However, it is a paradox that a coastal filleting plant that receives fish between 1 kg and 2.5 kg, at the same time as one of the most important links to Norwegian fisheries policy, and on which there is a broad consensus in the fisheries sector, needs to reduce the withdrawal of small fish in order to increase the value of the industry in the long term. It's a paradox that I don't think it's easy to deal with in relation to the new Aarsetther plant. I have understood that it is not easy for the coastal fleet in Vardø to get delivered fish, and that they do not accept shrimp caught fish at the farm. But from the resource perspective, I would like the Council of State to comment on whether he does not see the paradox in relation to the goal of sustainable management and increased value creation in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1504	I don't see the connection between the dimensioning of this fillet plant and the resource management, because at the plant, at least towards me, they clearly show that all kinds of fish are purchased, while production takes place at different plants. It must then be seen that the fillet industry in Norway has very low profitability. We have a relatively small number of fillet industry companies left along the coast, and there is a danger that if we were to go into politics – and it is unthinkable from my point of view that we were to override the farm as far as the size of the fish they were going to accept and process – it would go beyond profitability. The industry and a fillet plant must provide more efficient operation, a specialisation. I see this company's efforts as part of, and I think that's good resource management. It's good management of the coast and coastal values.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1509	I agree that the fillet industry is not in any simple situation, but if we start encouraging the processing of pure small fish, it will not only be the fillet industry that will come into a difficult position. Then the entire long-term value creation related to cod fishing will be in a difficult situation, because one of our main objectives is to limit the withdrawal of small fish, just to increase the value creation in the long term. West Fish – Aarsetther AS is an example. The question is whether there may be a trend in the future for more filet facilities to do so in the way they are now doing it in Vardø. Then such a development will be a threat to what we think is a sustainable development of fisheries resources, and on that basis I think it is a little remarkable that the Minister for Fisheries does not place greater emphasis on the obvious paradox that lies here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1516	The Minister for Fisheries attaches great importance to the quality and size of fish as a guide to the processing to be carried out by the farms. The specialisation of enterprises in a type of quality and size is not a threat either to resource management or to the Norwegian fishing industry. It contributes to increased profitability. I stress that it is not that the fillet machines on Aarsetther in Vardø are the ones that now control the catch. Both small and large fish are exploited rationally to produce the necessary quality. When the questioner calls for more shrimp fish to be bought, I have to remind you that it is not the fish that has the best quality experience. So it might be that there are more complicated issues than just what is happening to the filet machine in Vardø, which should be the basis for future fishing industries. And that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1526	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: « Under the Main Agreement on Tariffs in Chapter 1 of the State. 2.3.3.3, point 2.3.3.3, 4, local preliminary wage negotiations — the school, the unorganised ones should be taken care of. Do the Councils of State consider that the unorganised/organised are maintained in the same way in the local negotiations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1535	The pay and bargaining system in the State tariff area includes any employee – organised as an unorganised worker – unless otherwise expressly agreed. This is reflected in the Storting's treatment of the grubbing-up proposal on wage regulation for workers in the State tariff area, etc. It states that, in accordance with agreed regulations in the core tariff agreement between the central parties, remuneration and working conditions shall also apply to the unorganised. It has been clarified in writing by the Ministry of Labour and Administration to the municipalities and county councils which conduct the preliminary negotiations for the school system, that the framework for negotiations covers both organised and unorganised workers, and that it is the employer who has to ensure, in the first place, that workers without organisational ties are also paid according to their duties and performance of their duties. The principle of freedom of organisation implies that employers are not able to register or have an overview of whether workers are organised or not. Employees may, on their own initiative, be drawn into wages and salaries for the union quota. However, such registration cannot be used in negotiations. This indicates that each employer does not have an overview of any association. On this basis, I believe that the framework suggests that organised and unorganised workers are maintained in the same way in the local negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1548	I'm very happy that the Council of States is firming what should be the actual conditions. It is now that so-called individual wage determinations have recently been opened up and, in such situations, at least the undersigned have received feedback that inorganised and organised in a way is being treated differently. My question will then be whether self-regulation would be necessary to ensure the unorganised in the situation we now have. I would like to challenge the Council of State on how to take care of everyone in the future, regardless of whether they are organised or not, and how to seek to improve individual wage determinations based on the quality of the workforce, and not on the general considerations of the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1557	Let me focus on what is perhaps the most central here now, namely whether there is actually a discrimination between organised and unorganised. Preliminary negotiations in the school system were launched in 2000, and this was done in order to achieve a more local wage formation in the school system as well. Much resources have been devoted to training and information on the framework conditions for preliminary negotiations in connection with the introduction of this new institute. I am aware that the organisation association has been highlighted in some reports from the preliminary negotiations that have taken place in the municipalities and county municipalities. However, I have also been informed that the parties responsible for the settlement of the schoolwork, which is the State Department of Education and Research, make the necessary changes and adjustments before it is signed and returned to the respective municipalities and county municipalities. Finally, I would like to stress once again that it is a clear prerequisite in the pay and negotiation system of the State tariff area for all workers to be included in the negotiations and treated as equivalent. And it is the individual employer who must ensure that unorganised and organised people are treated on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1566	I have to say I'm satisfied with that answer as well. But I didn't exactly get a response from the Council of State on what we're going to do to get a system in the future where individual wage fixing becomes a major part of both local and central negotiations and wage fixing. Today, the situation is that many actually share the local pay-pocket equally without taking into account either the quality of the labour force or other things that have to be taken into account in that context. Now I hear that the Council of State answers that the department has a censorship and control of what is going on in the negotiations. But there must be ways of ensuring quality in the negotiations that are better than the ones we have today, and I would like to challenge the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1573	The whole scheme of the new pay system in the school system is just giving local units greater freedom. In the context of the modernisation of the public sector, we also aim to increase local responsibilities and to be rewarded on the basis of results. We think it will provide a framework where local wage-fixing will be used to promote efforts, responsibilities, competences and other important elements. At the same time, it's in such a decentralised system that if we don't have central supervisory and control functions in place somehow, we can risk focusing on other things than what we've agreed centrally to focus on. That is why I do not think we come outside of some form of what the representative calls ‘sensorship’ of the agreements that are concluded. If we are to have equal treatment for men and women, we must have equal treatment for organized and unorganised people, there must be a central control over this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1583	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘There is an urgent need to abolish or extend the age limit for support from the Rikstrygdewerk for training equipment, special toys and special-purpose sports equipment for disabled people aged over 18. When will the notified review of today's legislation be available?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1592	As you know, disabled people under 18 years of age can benefit from training, stimulation and activation aids to maintain or improve their function. The disabled person may also receive social assistance for special or extra equipment related to play and sports activities. The age limit for granting subsidies to such aids has also been gradually extended since the introduction of the scheme in 1992. In Document No: 8:111 in 2000-2001, dated 3 May last year, the representatives Ola D. Glötvold and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa raised questions similar to those raised by the representative Glötvold today. Int. S. No 302 for 2000-2001 of 5 June last year, the Committee is aware that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health at that time reviewed the legislation on training equipment, special toys and specialised sports equipment and assessed the economic impact by raising or extending the age limit. In the light of this investigation, the Ministry would assess changes in the 2002 State budget. I note that this matter was not followed up in the budget of the Stoltenberg government, as I understand it had been expressed or had been notified to the committee. The reason for this should be further explained by others. Both the Riksstrøgdeverket and the Ministry receive a number of suggestions for improvements in various social security schemes. The proposal to raise the age limit for social benefits for training, stimulation and activation in order to maintain or improve their functioning is one such proposal. It is natural for me to consider all these proposals for improvements in the annual budgetary procedures. President! In the Question Time of 21 November 2001, Question 19, I was injured at the end of my answer to give an incorrect information to the representative John I. Alvheim regarding user-led personal assistance. I said, ‘Users of the scheme of personal assistants for people with disabilities will often be children and some may be unauthorised.’ Unfortunately, I mixed the support contact system and the system with user-driven personal assistance. The correct one shall be: ‘Users of the support contact scheme will often be children and some may be unauthorised.’ Users of the system of user-led personal assistance should generally be empowered, i.e. over 18 years of age, because the specificity of the system is precisely user management emphasis by the user himself acting as the supervisor of the assistants. In exceptional cases, derogations from this rule may be granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1615	I thank the Minister for the answer. As the Social Minister quite rightly said, signed and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa had a proposal in the spring that was discussed in the Social Committee, about opportunities to go in and refund or facilitate free assistance for disabled people over 18 years of age. It is of great importance that they can get such aids to sustain an active life, and perhaps also help them to participate not only in leisure activities but also in the workplace, and to rehabilitate themselves through such an activity. I regret that we did not follow this further in the budget. However, I find the Council of State to be somewhat elusive when she says that one government did not follow it up, but that there is no plan to do so for the other either. When a unanimous committee says that because of this coming quickly, we do nothing more about the matter, I think this should be followed up already in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1626	We're busy spending money to help people with disabilities, and we spend about NOK 2 billion. It's important to have an overall review, but it'll always be a grey zone, a discussion about what's going to be free, and what you're going to pay for yourself. It is natural that proposals for amendments and improvements are promoted in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1633	I agree that this can be done in the context of the budget. But when this is announced and the department has worked on this matter at the investigation level to look at the consequences, it should be possible to add these funds already in the context of the revised national budget. In addition to that, we know that the Department is working on the ‘From user to citizen’ investigation, and this is one of the important things that can make it easier for users and make the transition from child to youth and adult not so difficult for people with disabilities. I therefore hope that the Council of State will take this back, and that, in the context of the revision, proposals will be put forward which will make such a system possible. As proposers, we suggested that a pilot scheme could be launched in the first place. It then departed from the Committee due to the signals from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that this would be assessed quickly and probably in the context of the 2002 budget. I hope it now works quickly, and that, as I said, we can get something revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1640	I take note of the views of the representative. It is important in relation to the consultation of the Manneråk Committee, which relates in particular to the case of people with disabilities. The views there I want to take with me in the further work, and we're going to make an overall assessment. But, as I have said before, it is natural that this is also done in the context of budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1655	This question is postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1661	This question, from Inge Ryan to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1664	The question I am now asking is that I am so well aware that I received an answer yesterday by saying that the Government made a decision at the Council of State. However, I still ask the question to get a chance to follow up. The question is as follows: ‘There is currently a major reorganisation of the road network. A large part of the conversion consists of a regionalisation of the current county road office. The government has on several occasions pointed to the need for the decentralisation of state jobs in order to stop some of today’s centralisation. Some fear that the new regional offices will be added to the largest city in the region. Will the Council of State take into account regional policy considerations and add the new regional offices to one of the smaller cities/entities of the region in question?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1673	As the representative Ryan initially said, yesterday the Ministry of Transport, Tuesday 5 February, decided on the location of the five new regional offices in the State Road Administration. The following location of the regional offices of the State Road Administration is decided: Region east: Lillehammer, Region south: Arendal, Region west: Leikanger, Region middle: Molde and Region north: Bodø. In response to the specific question, the reason for the Minister of Transport has been that special attention has been given to decentralisation, efficiency and the desire for a more balanced distribution of state jobs in individual parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1682	I thank you for the answer, and I would like to express my pleasure in choosing to decentralize some of these jobs. I think that's very positive. I hope that it will also be part of the policy to regionalise government jobs. But I would point out that in my region, which is central Norway, we are very disappointed that Steinkjer did not reach. In our opinion, there is a much stronger regional policy argument for Steinkjer than for Molde. Steinkjer has lost a large number of jobs in recent years, including: from the Defence but also from other types of jobs. And district policy, in our opinion, there is no doubt that Steinkjer had needed the regional office more than Molde. Suffering if we know that both the Prime Minister and the head of the Committee on Transport come from the county, we regret that Steinkjer did not find room for this time. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: Will the Government pay attention to Steinkjer in the next round when assigning this type of job?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1691	I would like to remind you that as far as I am aware, it was actually the case that the Trondheim Council, the majority at least, based on an emphasis on road safety and with reference to a particularly strong professional environment, thought that Trondheim was the best choice for a regional road office. The government has stressed a regional policy argument, while at the same time wanting to pursue professional considerations. In that way Molde is a very good choice, but I understand that there may be cities that are dissatisfied, in this context Steinkjer. I am not aware that my home town, Tromsø, could have preferred to have the road office in front of Bodø, but we have therefore chosen from the Government to leave these offices outside the big cities. Then it is that we have to take care of environments of excellence elsewhere, and in this respect Steinkjer is as well as my home town, Tromsø – if I can include it – absolutely current candidates to be awarded regional or national special functions. In Steinkjer, for example. relevant for design purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1698	Finally, I would just like to recommend to the Minister that at least the wish be made further. After all, 30 so-called smaller offices are to be set up or maintained within the road network, and I would strongly ask that Steinkjer, who has a very good environment of competence, and where the road office means a lot, at least keep some of the jobs that they have today. I hope that the Council of State will be able to answer that affirmatively.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1703	The Council of State can confirm that he will take it with him to the Minister of Transport. Moreover, I note that there is broad satisfaction with the Government's regional policy priority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1721	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1728	This question, from Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1731	I want to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions, which I understand will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Every day hundreds of dangerous foreign vehicle combinations roll over Norwegian border crossings and create dangerous situations such as: the one on the E6 south of the Tang in Hedmark a while ago. Will the Council of State give priority to further checks and thus unlock these vehicles, which may be potential death engines, as well as to work to increase understanding of this work by non-resident carriers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1740	On behalf of the Minister for Transport, I will give a positive answer. Control of heavy goods vehicles, both foreign and Norwegian, is a high priority road safety measure. The state road system controls about 220,000 heavy vehicles per year. years. The Road Service Action Programme for the coming years envisages a significant increase in these controls, from today’s 220 000 to 325 000 in 2005. Checks are carried out both as random checks in traffic and at fixed control points. Efforts have also been made to improve the effectiveness of controls through the strengthening of competences and cooperation between the counties. The problem of missing tyre and chain equipment on heavy duty vehicles is mainly for non-resident vehicle combinations. Today’s legislation requires the driver to carry a chain only if it can be expected to travel on public roads covered by snow or ice. In other words, the current requirements are predependent, making effective follow-up by control difficult. In this context, the Minister of Transport has recently initiated the introduction of a general requirement for a minimum depth of three millimetres on deck and the obligation to carry chains regardless of driving conditions throughout the winter season and for all heavy vehicles. This will include, inter alia: facilitate more effective control at border crossings. The Minister for Transport wants the new rules to come into force before the autumn of 2002. In the autumn of 2000, an information campaign was launched against foreign drivers, including appropriate tyre equipment and the focus of chain use. This campaign is planned to continue until the autumn of 2003. Furthermore, the Minister for Transport considers it important that information on tyre and chain requirements is also addressed to purchasers of transport services, and will work to ensure that this type of security constitutes a criterion for the contracting entity in the choice of carrier. In this way, I can see that the Ministry of Transport has fully complied with the wishes of the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1751	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a positive, good answer. What worries me is that on February 2, 2000, I asked a similar question, and then got the answer, from another government, of course: « Today, the road authorities of the Member States do not have statistics suggesting that foreign drivers are more involved in serious accidents than Norwegian drivers. However, there is reason to believe that they are over-represented in creating problems in traffic, for example by being more likely to get stuck due to insufficient tyre equipment or lack of chains.» However, I choose to believe in the government that is now sitting, and I choose to believe that the Minister for Transport will address this matter. It's a very serious topic. I have received comments from both KNA and NAF on this, so the matter is very serious. I read that, among other things, in Svinesund, there are still frightening examples that result in driving bans.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1763	My short answer is that I cannot answer for previous governments, but this government has taken this seriously, and we believe that we have a professional basis to increase control and to implement the measures I have described here. And we expect that to produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1768	I thank you once again for your answer. It is clear that this also has ring-fenced effects for Norwegian drivers versus non-residents. When we release dangerous vehicle trains into Norway that run relatively cheaply – it is clear that they will be allowed to drive – it also goes beyond Norwegian carriers by making the margins so small in terms of earnings, and there will be less money for maintenance. I hope that the Council of State, as he has now said, will deal with this matter and carry it on, so that in two years' time I will not be able to ask almost the same question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1773	We can continue with situation descriptions, but I stress that the Government has implemented and will implement measures. Besides that, I have no comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1778	We go to question 24, from the representative Odd Roger Enoksen to the Minister of Defence. The president can't see that Odd Roger Enoxsen is in the room. We then wait with question 24, and then we see if the representative, Enoxsen, shows up later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1791	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1797	I ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘Harstad Ship industry plans to build a larger dry dock and has offered the Defence to participate in this process. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 7 for 2001-2002 the Defence Committee unanimously states that it has noticed that the Government aims to return to the Stortinget spring of the year. with proposals for State follow-up to the dry dock project. The Economic and Social Committee has a similar wording. Letter of 22 January 2002 from the NHD states that the maritime defence will not, however, participate. Will the Council of State respond to the unanimous call of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1806	Harstad Ship industry plans to build a dry dock. The aim is to compete in the market for larger civil vessels while also being able to maintain the defence’s new frigates and the coastguard ship ‘KV Svalbard’. Harstad Skipsindustrie has assumed that the development of the dry dock is partly financed by State aid and proposes that the Maritime Defense Agency contribute 91 million. NOK 160 million of the total cost. kr. As has previously been suggested, the Government intends to return to the matter this spring in connection with the Storting's treatment of the revised 2002 national budget. The main challenge is that maritime defence has not prioritised this project within existing budgetary frameworks for 2002. Therefore, before we can draw a conclusion, we need to clarify whether it is desirable to use a civil yard as a base for the maintenance of the defence ship. Such a scheme would violate the maritime defence maintenance philosophy, which provides for the purchase of services at the most affordable civil yards at all times, provided that the applicable quality and dock capacity requirements are met. The letter from the Ministry of Industry and Trade to Harstad Skipsindustrie, to which the representative of Arnesen refers, points to these challenges. The letter also refers to alternative financing solutions – see. the shipbuilding regulation which may, under certain conditions, provide aid for shipyards. The Ministry of Industry and Trade points out that here it is possible to apply to the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund for support. Another difficult issue is whether this form of public contribution to the defence budget can be considered as a military investment. It is necessary for the project to be subject to the exceptional provisions of the EEA Agreement in this field. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, attaches great importance to preventing cross-subsidisation from military to civil yard activities. The Government aims at clarifying these issues between the departments involved and proposes to return to the matter in the context of the 2002 revision of the national budget. The representative of Arnesen and Stortinget will then have the opportunity to decide on the matter themselves, as both of the above-mentioned committee settings provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1821	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State itself had in mind, this has been reflected in the two budgetary positions, both from the defence committee and from the business committee, nor has it been said otherwise in the supplementary proposal made by the new government. Both committees have asked for this to be followed up in the revision, so I'm glad it's coming. At the same time, I would like to remind the Council of State that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the former Spokesman of the Right has been in Harstad and promised that this should be done, and I expect perhaps a more positive attitude than the letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I would like to ask: there was an enquiry from the yard to the Minister of Defence to get a meeting to discuss the details. Is it, then, the answer from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to that of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1830	As I see it, it is right now the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade dealing with the coordination between different departments in this matter. What I have tried to explain is simply what is inside this year's defence budget, and as I said, maritime defence has not given priority to such a dock. I am sure that any interested person who wants to meet representatives of the Government in this matter will get it, but I think it has to be the government that assesses which department will have the primary responsibility for the further work on the matter. Because it may even affect the Ministry of Local Affairs, it is, as I said, appropriate for the Government to spend some time between these different departments concerned before concluding the revision. And we haven't concluded yet. I am fully aware of what Mr Arnesen refers to, that there are many parties here who have wanted to express goodwill and sympathy for the project, but there is still some practical clarification, not least on whether ESA will be able to accept such State subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1835	The question remains unanswered for the reason that a meeting with the Department has therefore been requested to clarify the matter, to discuss figures and to discuss the details before the examination of the revised, and I see the letter from the Ministry of Industry and Trade as a refusal to have such a meeting. I ask again: will the Council of State or the Council of State in the Ministry of Food receive the Agency to plan the details forward towards revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1842	I would just like to reply briefly to Mr Arnesen's representative that everyone who sends letters to the Minister of Defence should, of course, receive answers from the Minister of Defence. It's a practice that applies in my department. I am not sure at this stage which letter should therefore be addressed to me as Minister of Defence, to which the representative of Mr Arnesen is referring. But for the future, I can promise that it will be a general rule that everyone will get an answer from the minister who is being attributed, and in that answer it may be said that in that case another minister is more natural to have a meeting with. But I'll take a closer look at that after this meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1847	We then go back to question No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1854	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The action plan for Defence from the autumn of 2001 provides for up to 800-2400 men to practise in the ‘Regional Shooting and Exercise Field of Defence Departments in the East’ for the nine months of activity in the field. What is the actual trainable volume in the region field, and where shall these forces come from?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1863	The transition to a mobile operation concept sets out completely new requirements for combining units of different types of weapons. These requirements will not be met in the existing shooting areas of South Norway. This is the main reason for the establishment of the Eastern Region. Regional field of fire and training of defence departments in the East was adopted in connection with the treatment of the Inst. S. No 129 for 1998-99, cf. St. Report. No 11 for 1998-99. At Stortinget's treatment of St. pp. No 45 for 2000-2001 the majority of the Defence Committee stressed that it would be critical to develop the Eastern Region in line with the Stortingen's assumptions and to comply with the timetable. The government is based on this. This means that the field works are planned to be launched in September of this year and that the field can be used from 2005. To take the second part of Enoxsen’s question first: It is primarily the Defence Departments based in South Norway that want to use the region field. Among the most central departments are the three departments forming part of the Armed Forces’ effort force, namely the rapid reaction strength, the follow-up strength and the reinforcement strength. In addition, it is His Majesty the King's Guard, the Army's Purchasing Command, and the Commanding Schools. With regard to the first part of the question raised by the representative of Enoxen, the defence departments in Eastern Europe will benefit from a number of existing shooting and practice fields before 2005. The disadvantage of these existing schemes is that they do not meet the requirements for coordination between departments. The scope of the activities envisaged is in the order of magnitude mentioned by the representative of Enoxsen in his question. These activities will be transferred to the Eastern Region. It is difficult to say something more exactly about the scope of the activity in the field. However, I would like to make it clear that the exercise activity will vary in the course of the nine months in which the field is being used. In the periods of low activity it is planned to approx. 500 soldiers are trained in the field, while in most cases it is planned that approx. 2 000-2400 soldiers are being trained. The crucial part of the field activity is that our military departments are given satisfactory training and practice opportunities so that they can solve their very demanding tasks and meet operational requirements. It is not least important in the context of our international operations. Finally, I would like to stress that the planned activity at the regional area will have its start at the end of the current long-term period, i.e. in 2005. The future scope of activities must therefore be seen in the context of the ongoing structural development of defence which will take place towards that year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1883	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer, which is, to a great extent, corroborating in relation to what has been decided by the Grand Duchy, and the assumptions that have been made. The background to my question is, of course, that the departments currently located in the eastern part of the country, among others. Østerdal garrison, has a much lower number of personnel than the level to be trained in this field. At the same time, Stortinget has decided that the other power production in the Army will take place at 6. Division in Troms. My follow-up question will then be: can the Council confirm that the Storting's assumption that the initial service in the Army is to be served in North Norway is firm?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1892	I can confirm that my intention is entirely in line with the intention of the representative, Mr Enoxen, that we should have the first service in 6. Division, and then the unit of education within the Army, that is, the UKS, is to be located in Østerdal garrison. That's why, when I also rammed up the units that were supposed to practice in the Eastern Region, I was based on the military units that are present in that region today. The representative of Enoxsen is probably aware that there are currently uncertainties related to many things in the Defence, Finance and Future Structure. But my intention is that what was adopted in June is firm, and that of course it will also be used as a basis for practice. But it will not rule out that some elements from the north can be practiced in the south, because, among other things, it does. are simulators and other types of equipment not in the north, but this applies to special types of capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1899	I agree with the Minister of Defence that there is currently considerable uncertainty about the future of defence. It is all the more important that neither the Council of State nor the Grand Duchy contribute to the creation of greater uncertainty than is necessary. In the last few days, we have also seen speculations as to whether it might be appropriate to transfer the department in Northern Norway to the East. So I thank the Council of State for the answer, where I understand that the Council of State confirms that it is not applicable, the decisions the Stortinget has taken regarding the location in North Norway and education in 6. Division, will also be stuck in the future defence structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1904	I can confirm that in the work the department has taken on the basis of this ageing period, we continue with that concentration around 6. Division and the Østerdalen adopted in June. It also applies to training activities. At the same time, I would like to repeat what I said, namely that there may be a need for some elements to exploit capacities in the south. But it doesn't change the main structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1911	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-06.ana.ud218e1922	There is no record.
