ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e43	In recent times, much attention has been paid to road safety, unfortunately with the background of even more serious accidents. Media has begun to take an interest in the matter, sending out daily doses with reports of accidents, expeditions and problems related to foreign vehicles with summer tyres on our uninhabitable winter driving. Only in the last week have a dozen German car combinations been involved in accidents in Norway. When foreign drivers can run cabotage, i.e. run assignments from A to B nationally when they are first here, one must be able to set requirements for good tyres, brakes and other technical aids that prevent them from becoming a danger to themselves and others on the road. Can we, for example, demand that drivers have knowledge of braking distances in winter driving? Can we demand that all trucks have chains in the car for a certain period of the year – requirements that are non-discriminatory, but that could give the driver a chance to get where he should when needed? Can we demand some professional experience when traveling on our western narrow road? Are we going to send them out to a chance island where the road ends without road debt, all wrapped up in snow? Explosion and roll is far more than we hear in the national media. It applies to our own drivers as well as to foreign drivers. I didn't read a long time ago about a 20-year-old Norwegian driver walking out the road in a turn. barrels with impudent contents low-breathed bolts to bolts, and the local fire service had a strip of thorns to gather the barrels among the snow and the ice in the river where this happened. The road was smooth, the shoe was bad and had loaded itself. Do you really want to check with the Norwegian cars? Is the control of cars from Eastern Europe similar to that of Norwegian cars? If the place of delivery is Oslo and one has been allowed to run there and no longer, but then the owner gives the order to run to Bergen, and suddenly one can stand in a hill up against Geilo – has one taken the right to go beyond the right? Or is it that when one first comes to Norway, one can run anywhere? These questions can often be asked when reading what the newspapers write. ‘The gallery must be stopped’, it said to read in the Hamar Worksheet after the accident at Morskogen. Yes, it must be the will of the authorities to listen to Norway's Lastebileier-Federal and others who want to take action. In recent years, there have been many responses to measures that will increase road safety. But it has taken time for one to get an answer, if they have got something at all. And before the training, there have been no major changes since time has passed. It is still the case that the elephant learns about braking systems that are no longer in use. But there are no practical exercises in how to ensure loading. In the curriculum used, it is guaranteed that a ‘shall be able to explain the main requirements’, ‘shall be able to describe the most common methods’ and ‘shall be able to describe important principles’ — i.e. no practical training in this very important field of insurance. One can almost wonder if the learning forces around have brought this part, at least it has Norway's Lastbileiier-Federal, which thinks that theory and practice have to go hand in hand to far stronger than today. Is this going to be a great deal of attention at Staten traffic teacher school, the school that teaches trainers, when there's any business feeling that they won't be good enough after the training period? That might be missing at all levels. Could one use, in addition to the controls you need to have and need to increase, those operating with controllers active in training? Basic knowledge for more would help. I just ask, and look forward to the response of the Council of State and its approach to the challenges. At least those who carry out the check-up can do their job. They get the best shots. All this media storm against professionals on whom we are so dependent puts professionals in a bad light. We've all heard about cowboys, amphetamine use, running and sleeping breaks, ticking with tachographs, and shutting off the speed barriers. Of course, this is illegal, and I will, in the same way as both the truck industry itself and the Transport Workers' Association, take a strong distance from this. But we know it exists. There are few of them, but they put the whole industry in a bad light. It is possible to get drivers from countries where wages are lower and the dishes we have here are almost absent. Norwegian owners may also be registered in other countries with drivers from a third country. Then it'll be inconclusive. The offer they receive from Norwegian employers is often compared to buttons and glossy images. In many cases, it can be compared to the conditions in the shipping industry before we can clean up. Negative mention of a profession makes recruitment very difficult. In addition, the production of goods is to be produced, ‘just in hour’ as it is called, and the remuneration for foreign operations is often a percentage of gross turnover or mileage. Its more miles, the more money in the wallet. Life as a foreign driver is a lifestyle, one that works 24 hours a day, away from the family about 300 days a year to get a useful salary. It goes without saying that this does not create stability, but leads to people burning their light at both ends. We're inside a bad circle. I have just taken this up in the interview today to try to give these important professional groups a face, focus on a professional group asking for help to be respected in a better way than they are today, asking for better training, and not looking back and waiting for an EU directive or regulation, which will come first in 2008, if they get together. Do we have time to wait? Can we make stricter national demands? No one has to miss. We have damage figures that we actively want to work to reduce. We have a zero vision: no harm or killing in traffic. We know that accidents cost, both human and insurance payments. Before I go to another transport section, I would say that the truck and trailer always come out negatively where they are involved in accidents, but almost always in meeting accidents it is the passenger car's fault. The truck is so big. We have all known that we were looking for it, even if we were in the car. As I see it, it can't be with today's road standard the time to increase the length of the trailers to 25.25 meters. Before that happens, many of the pieces that I have now named have to be in place, plus that the tribal pathways have to be more coherently improved, and not as they are now, just piecewise and divided. One could address these challenges in different ways, but I've been thinking about Circulating why these professionals have had such a negative status. Now no one will carry out these important societal tasks anymore. It's hard to get people to spend a long time in their jobs. A bus driver with a top salary of 210,000 kroner gross, with a working time of more than 12 hours per. on the day, no compensation shall be granted for the illegal working time, with a week of up to 60 hours, while other occupational groups shall be fully reduced for 30 hours. Uncertainty with regard to buying-in, merger, outsourcing and the risk of loss of invented pension rights means that there is a great deal of flow from these important professions. The drivers also carry the girlfriend we have, that is, our children. The National Association of Transport Companies has estimated that there is a need for a new recruitment of about 3000 professional drivers each year. There is a formidable gap between need and seeker mass. Vikersund's online bus searched for bus driver. No search done. As a result, those who endure get even more overtime. Leakage is also high for heavy traffic, with shorter working hours and cleaner and better pay and working conditions, which reduces bus industry. Tanker running and hourly payment will be very much preferred for more and more. Bus drivers are a professional group in anticipation. It's probably a long time since you could sing 'A bus driver, a bus driver, it's a man with a good mood'. The reality of the day is accuracy. No political party in this house has reason to settle on the chest and be satisfied with what has been done. We jointly have a responsibility to give the transport profession a lift. We're going to bet on collective solutions, but we're missing drivers, bus drivers, truck drivers and trailer drivers who are going to bring to the square the goods we're going to sell to get more money for welfare. We're inside a bad circle. Do the Councils have any plans in the short and long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e75	The representative Eng addresses very important and relevant questions. From time to time, the lack of drivers means that bus and train routes must be cancelled. When passengers arrive late for work and children are picked up in kindergarten and school later than planned, public transport is seen as unreliable. This is a development government in no way wants. General conditions in the economy are reflected in the labour market. The hard labour market in recent years has caused many industries to lack labour. In the long term, I have no doubt that lack of skilled labour will be the limiting factor for many businesses and industries. For this reason, the Co-operation Board attaches great importance to increasing labour supply and skilled labour. In order to improve the growth potential of enterprises, the Co-operation Board will inter alia: strengthen the tax incentives to free up public sector labour through competitive outsourcing and red tape to make it easier for people from outside the EEA to obtain work permits in Norway to combine old-age and disability pensions with part-time working tax and pension systems to make it more profitable to work longer before retirement; An offensive policy to increase labour supply is therefore a priority area for the Government and will also benefit the transport industry. Driver's status, salary level, training provision, career opportunities, working time, age composition, etc. compared to other working groups, the situation is important. The industry itself must take its share of the responsibility for implementing the necessary measures, including: in areas such as the working environment, wages and salaries, working time arrangements and career opportunities. At the same time, access to qualified drivers requires public involvement in cooperation with the industry, not least in order to focus more on education and competence, for which the representative Eng is involved. The competence of bus and lorry drivers is acquired through training paid either ‘private’, i.e.: by the individual himself or by the employer, or by the public, via Aetat, secondary school and the Defence. Data from the Directorate-General for Roads indicate that access to persons with a driving licence in the bus and freight sector is significantly higher than industry’s estimation of driving needs. In addition, Aetat figures indicate that it is not as difficult to recruit drivers for buses and trams as for other drivers. A sample survey carried out in June last year indicates a relatively small lack of bus and tram drivers. This may be related to the fact that many bus companies offer free driving licence training to students and other applicants for training for the commitment of current candidates for a certain period of time as part-time employees. A greater proportion of drivers with low experience may be affected by several accidents. However, the transport industry in general is characterised by considerable penetration. Both the strengthening of training provision and the implementation of control measures are necessary to prevent problems from falling below safety levels in the transport sector. With regard to the use of overtime, drivers are subject to driving and rest arrangements. In addition, the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act apply. Compliance with this legislation is controlled by the State Road Administration, the Police and the Labour Inspectorate. There has been a call for both education and transport authorities to engage more offensively on the educational side. I have registered specific proposals, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Professional training for professional drivers should be a public responsibility and should be a fully-fledged and integrated part of the public training offer.The title of professional driver should be protected and only allowed for those who have completed and passed three years of professional training as a professional driver, with reference to requirements for crews on other means of transport.Requirements for mandatory safety training for bus drivers, with reference to requirements equivalent to those for drivers of ferries, trains and aeroplanes. At a time of tight labour market and poor recruitment, it may be difficult to remove the driver’s deficiency by increasing the requirements. However, the proposal of the Landsforening of Transport Companies, TL, that the age limit for category D driving licences, for buses, be lowered from 21 years to 18 years under given conditions – as has been the case for both Norway and EU countries for heavy goods vehicles – can produce results in the short term. I would like to take a closer look at these proposals, such as: TL is behind, in relation to a draft EU directive such as: will involve compulsory and relatively extensive initial and recurrent training for all new drivers. Next week I will be sending a proposal for training of drivers for goods or passenger transport by road from my department, the Ministry of Transport. The EU is working on proposals that will make tenders the general rule in public transport. The proposal also provides for a strengthening of the protection of workers. Looking at the design of legislation, there is a central issue which should be subject to general rules on the rights of employees and to what should be subject to tender law. A selection of parties has been set up to review the Working Environment Act in a number of key areas. This will probably also provide important guidance for the questions that we are discussing here. In general, the management of pay and employment, social rights and pension schemes in the tendering process will, of course, be important for recruitment over time. I will not join the representative of Eng's claim that the use of tenders in itself reinforces the problem of labour shortages. Tenders are one of several instruments to strengthen the competitiveness of public transport and to improve the provision of services to passengers. A more attractive and well-functioning collective service will benefit society as a whole — and also the industry itself. I'm familiar with the lack of drivers in the NSB. The NSB expects this sub-coverage to continue over the next few years, for example. due to long training periods for drivers. The NSB has so far had a sufficient number of applicants for each position as a train driver. At the same time, the tighter labour market means that a greater proportion of drivers than previously usual choose to change their occupation. The NSB has made changes to the entry requirements in order to be admitted as an aspirant and the training plans have been adjusted. The number of aspirants in each coal has increased, in addition to the increase in the number of coal consumed each year. In the railway sector, the State Railway Authority approves the safety aspect of driving training. As mentioned in St.meld. No 48 for 2000-2001, About the activities of NSB BA 2001-2003, the State Railway Authority, in cooperation with the supervisory authorities of Sweden and Denmark, will look into the possibilities of laying down detailed requirements for the competence and training of drivers, in order to seek a more flexible labour market for railway workers within Scandinavia. In addition, the Ministry of Transport has taken the initiative of the Ministry of Education and Research to consider making the training of drivers part of public training. A common ‘training package’ for train drivers within Scandinavia is expected to result in more efficient use of train crew. However, these are long-term measures that will have no significant impact in the coming years. In the short term, the NSB’s own actions to hold drivers will be the most effective. There is an important debate the representative Eng invites to, not just for the industry itself, but for all those who are users of public transport and depending on an efficient transport industry, and not least on road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e141	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a positive feedback on the interpellation. The Council of State has expressed my concern in this area both now and in articles in newspapers. I have registered that. I'm happy with that. Governments can be sure that the Labour Party will be involved in and support all the measures that come in order to increase road safety. Nevertheless, I feel that the EU is a bit in the way of whether we can do something nationally. Or is it so that we can put in action while we wait? And is it the case that EU regulations apply to both bus and lorry industries? Bus drivers I'm talking to express frustration that they're not being taken on board when, for example. must be cross-shaped and where traffic islands are to be located. Granittstein is a heavy diet for the decka, speed dumps are bad for the back and neck. It could reduce the number of sick messages, and it could increase traffic safety if they could run in their own runways. It doesn't always work that way, but it could, if they were listening. It is such within this profession that those who wear the shoe know where it prints. When it comes to running/sleep time, I ask questions as to whether it is being practised unnecessarily rigorously. And notice, under given weather conditions, maybe 10 minutes longer runtime could be better than running with life as a stake. There's a little bit to get hold of, I feel. Then we also need to put the search light on the training within the transport sector that lies below the national lines. She is legally in favour when the application amount is reduced. We have to come up with arrangements where a letter of diploma provides something. The training for drivers on heavy cars needs to be improved, which was also covered by the Council of State. This applies to training related to driver cards, but also to training available in secondary schools leading to professional driver training. We need to introduce measures to improve the current situation, because it will take time for a letter to be a minimum requirement to run these large donnings. State councils insisted that bus drivers should receive safety training in line with the crew on board aircraft, trains and boats. Central themes should be life-saving first aid, warning procedures, evacuation procedures, emergency escape, fire-fighting and damage site protection. We have no one to lose, stupid people or time. Can the Council of State promise that, in cooperation with both the social partners and the employers' side, it will initiate a work that does not have an eternity perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e156	It is important to focus on road safety in this respect. We're in a season where this is particularly well noticed. That's why I think it's a very topical topic. And as I was in my post in the past, we're working on a number of aspects that could have long-term significance, but it's also important to look at what we can do today, and what challenges we have every day in Winter Norway. With regard to the fundamental issues of training requirements, there is a dilemma, because we want to see candidates for this profession. We want to make it attractive. All serve to ensure that there are good candidates for the profession of professional driver, both in the case of passenger transport and in the case of drivers. It may be a dilemma that we make such strict demands that it can be an obstacle to getting good people to this profession. The challenge for us is to make this profession attractive, and to show that we take safety and training seriously. We think we get better drivers that way. It was mentioned here that foreign cars coming on Norwegian roads are not protected for Norwegian conditions. This we see every winter, and we have to take it seriously. We have to work on how we can fix this in the long term. We're going through the possibility of changing the regulations, but it won't help in winter. That is why it is important that we put a lot of pressure on controls, which has already been done. These controls have two effects. One is to stop those who should not be on Norwegian roads. The second is that it has a preventative effect in relation to the fact that it is known that it is not allowed to drive on Norwegian roads without being well protected. There's information on the frontier now. There is an increased activity compared to the fact that drivers coming to the country will be informed about how it is going on Norwegian roads and what requirements are being imposed to be protected for Norwegian conditions. It is important that this information is provided, and there is a great deal of pressure on it from the Directorate of Roads as well. Information is important. It is also important to provide information to those who are sponsors for the drivers who come here to the country. There is now also a click on the information to be provided not only to drivers but also to those who are actually contracting entities. Securing of cargo is also important. It is important as part of the training and as part of the checks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e171	The transport industry has major recruitment problems. Annually, 5 000-6 000 new drivers are needed, and high school graduates are nearly 300 students per year. The country has removed the allocations to the shorelines providing an 18-week professional driver training, a training far more qualified than traditional driving licence training. The carriage of goods does not require any specific training requirements for drivers; driving licences are sufficient. This is the reality in Norway at the same time as the EU introduces new rules with enhanced requirements for comprehensive training, including: in the fields of health, environment and safety, including road safety. In Norway, clear road safety and cargo safety shall be learned in practical life on the road. The price of this philosophy we have had to pay for too many accidents and near-accidents. A decade with a large cut in the appropriations for the transport industry and offers for bus and coach services has resulted in a much harder working environment. This is a labour-intensive industry where more than 60 pst. of the expenditure is compensation of employees. This implies that the system of tendering is primarily designed to compete for the cheapest possible workforce, i.e. various collective agreements, pensions, insurance and social security schemes. We see that driving time and breaks shrink. In total, this is about social dumping. Some may view this as a healthy development, but personally I see it as unworthy in the welfare society of Norway. If this develops, there is a risk to safety and, above all, to passengers. At the same time, public transport is losing the fight for labour. The ‘turnover’ is formidable. One of the major metropolitan companies with approx. 650 drivers employing 100 new drivers to replace 100 which ended in one year. And the situation is equal to in all the big companies. This affects the quality of public transport, and this affects safety. In other sectors, employees are assigned as a human resource. This is done too little in the transport industry. Drivers are instead pressured by poor driving times and stress. Very few bus companies have their own safety training of some size, and this is a problem. The challenge we are facing implies that we must set new limits to the tendering system. We must guarantee employees the pay and employment conditions of business transfers. We need to ensure that the tendering system does not contribute to impaired health, the environment and road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e184	It is an important question that is addressed today. Safety, safety, on the roads are important to all of us. Professional drivers are an important profession and, for our part, it is important that they receive good training, training, so that they can also move safely on our roads. But I have to say I see with some wonder that this comes from the Labour Party, because in the 2002 budget, the Labour Party, among other things, reduced. EUR 30 million for the allocation of landlines. kr. It went beyond the VK II offer to professional drivers. It became a halve. It went beyond the secondary schools of Blakstad, Sauda, Melbu and Alta, which got a reduction from 120 to 60 places. There was a complete closure of the offer of a smooth course for VK II professional drivers. The equipment for the schools was completely cut, with $12 million. kr. If we are to get well-trained professional drivers, it is important that the ground wall is in place, and those who want to go in to halve the offers to professional drivers give a bad signal. I want us to get good drivers and that we can feel ourselves safe in their working situation. One does not do so by reducing the provision of schools, reducing the provision of smooth driving and reducing the provision of equipment for schools. But there was something in that representative, Mr. Eng, that suggests that they will support all proposals for security measures that will come from the Government. I hope that when they examine the next year's budget, they will also make it clear and clear that they are supporting the creation of more people in this profession and that they will support the provision of training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e193	If we're going to enable the transport industry in Norway to compete in the same way as the foreign, it's probably the underlying question in the interpellation, as the Progress Parties interpret it. The restrictions imposed and the peculiar level of competition make it difficult for the industry to compete effectively, which is the only way to go, as the Progress Party considers it. A reduced level of costs for Norwegian carriers will improve their ability to maintain their labour force. After all, the means of employment are an important part to achieve this. We have historically had a professional group in Norway that has had professional pride, which has been proud of the job they have done. Unfortunately, they are now in the process of being won out by foreign carriers who have clearly been better prepared to do business in Norway. In the case of safety requirements for non-resident vehicle combinations, there is also some concern on the part of the Progress Party. As I interpret the Council of State in her response, not only will stricter requirements be imposed on control at our borders, but we will also use the channels we have in the EU/EEA area to focus more on making greater demands on foreign carriers, including on the kind of equipment they bring in on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e206	I have to admit that this is a topic that I haven't worked a lot on, and that I don't know much about, but like most people, we're recording that this is a problem when we're going on the road, not least in the season that we're in now, where the problem might be made visible in a different way from the rest of the year. I think it is commendable that the interpellant addresses this issue, because it is very important both for professional drivers as a professional group, for which the representative Eng described the situation in a clear way, and also with regard to the safety of road users and passengers in public transport. We're dealing with a hard-pressed profession. If we're going to talk about a time pressure in our society today, it's probably few professionals who then directly notice the time pressure like those in heavy transport, how all the time to live up to the idea that time is money, has turned on more and more. It shall mark this professional group. What is important in this debate, too, is that when something happens, drivers have a very easy time to get a negative look at themselves, like those who are really responsible. Sigrun Eng was in the name bøllete behavior in traffic. Many people have such an impression, and then you place the responsibility with the drivers. I feel that in a way is unfortunate, and it's unfair, because this is a hard-working profession that should focus much more on the jobs they're working under. I think we agree that here we can do a lot, both on the pay side, in the case of pension schemes, in the case of social rights, etc., to ensure a better recruitment and not least to contribute to better training. Employers must also be included in the picture to a much greater extent than has been the case up to now. I think the Council of State shows the will to enter into this dialogue in an offensive way. She has announced that there will be a proposal for new training measures for professional drivers, which will be sent out at the hearing with the very first. I think it will be possible to bring together a broad majority of the UK for new measures with a stronger focus on security, education and training. In this way, I think Sigrun Eng's initiative has been important as an incentive to raise this problem. It's true, as it was said, that there's probably no one in this house who can beat himself on the chest and say that we're satisfied with what we've done. I'll join you to that. It also means that there should be a basis for finding a broad political constellation in this house that can ensure better training and safer and better working conditions for professional drivers, and thus also better safety for their fellow passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e219	The interpellant has extended to a large extent in the interpellation when it refers both to the NSB, to the bus industry and to the lorry industry. There are several aspects to this question. The one thing I understand is that the interpellation text was mostly about is what we can do to get Norwegian qualified drivers. The other side is what can be done to prevent accidents when foreign carriers arrive in the country. I think there are many factors involved when it comes to getting qualified drivers to the collective means of transport and larger vehicles. Some of the factors apply to all vehicles, while others are specific to some groups. One page is to recruit drivers for these vehicles. Another important side is to keep track of these that have started in the profession. I believe that when young people choose a profession, pay is an important theme, but many focus equally on other factors when it comes to working conditions. Education has been mentioned by many here, and it is clear that we need to make demands for education, both the content and the scope of the education that we are going to have. I think it's important that we don't now discuss who has done what, but that we look at how we can do the best out of the situation in the future. The Council of State stated that the various carriers also have a responsibility, and that is clear. When, for example, For a long time we have heard that the NSB has a lack of locomotors, I think we need to look a little inside the NSB to find the explanation for that. The NSB itself has been in charge of trainee training, and they have been in the unique situation that they have been in charge of both production and training. Then you can ask questions about what has gone wrong there. Have they not seen the connection between locomotive deficiency and production? From the bus industry and the truck industry, I have received a lot of input about factors that are important for the recruitment process. It mentions everything from negative media mentions – and I think we should be very careful to make an unfortunate event general to the whole industry – to the standard on the Norwegian road network. We also have facilities on behalf of long-distance drivers. There is a problem that we do not have facilities on the road, so that drivers can have the necessary sleep time. This also refers to the size of the national transport plan, where we look at the value of this. And then I finally wanted to name a point that some drivers have now mentioned, and that's the question of the large vehicle trains. I want to challenge the Council of State, because there is a great deal of turmoil in truck industry, especially when it comes to the poor standard we have on many parts of the road network and the danger that we will now increase the length of the truck even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e238	I also want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing this question. I think it is important that we remember that we have had a situation with regard to drivers, which has made us set up routes because we have not had enough qualified people to drive trains. This is a question that becomes important prior to the collective communication. The government has presented an ambitious target of increased investment on trains, buses and trams. If this is going to become a reality, we're also dependent on having good enough jobs that make us get enough people to run the T-Bahn in Oslo and enough people to drive trains all over the country. I have a question for the Council of State, but first I want to say that I agree with what was said by the Central Party that we have to go in and look at the NSB in terms of what is involved with the drivers. We can't just push the problem in front of us and say that NSB has to sort it out, we also have to make sure that happens. I want to ask the Council of State what she's been thinking about this in advance of the collective announcement. When it comes to safety, I will continue where Jorunn Ringstad left off. She mentioned the threat of getting trailers as long as 25,25 meters on the road. I am very pleased that more people here have said that we should support all the proposals that will improve road safety. Then I am almost sure that proposals that will weaken road safety will not receive support in this room. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, across the EU, only Sweden and Finland will allow these giant trucks to weaken road safety and also lead to an increased shift in the transport of goods from road to road. I would also like to ask the Council of State if, when she receives this proposal from the Directorate of Roads on the table, she would like to base what is the general policy, that we should get goods on the road more on the road, in order to evaluate that proposal. I also agree with those who say that if the Government now makes an offensive collective announcement and proposals for an offensive effort on what is going on in road safety, there should be a broad majority in the Stortinget for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e250	I am pleased that the representative Eng has drawn up this interview, and I hope we get an effort at all levels to increase safety on the road, among others. by securing us more competent professional drivers. Governments are positive. We have for many years taken hold of many points that can make it safer on the roads: light in tunnels, race protection and road repair, separation between roads, etc. I cannot say that I have noticed the corresponding efforts to ensure that drivers can do their job. It may seem that everyone is still thinking that they can become drivers. If they don't get anything else in life, they can always be drivers. That's what I doubt is true, maybe it's never been. In this sector, as in most others, it is so that the human element is the most important, and human failure is the cause of many accidents. Such failures occur more often if there is insufficient knowledge and experience in running in particular these large vehicles, and not least experience in dealing with difficult situations, such as: at this time of the year. In addition, a good professional driver will have an idea of what kind of tyres he can use for difficult driving, how the brakes work osb. He or she can prevent them from running on or over others on the road. So we're going to have to do good running training, as many people have said. I've been driving a car for 35 years. Nevertheless, I have very much respect for these large running gears. I wanted to see it as a great responsibility to run a bus with children or for the sake of the case. I have been in large car combinations, and it must be very difficult and a demanding task to maneuver such dolls in a good way. In addition, large trailers are now almost an IT workplace. Now a driver should master this in addition to a lot of other things. When it comes to landlines, we have some pigs in the woods somewhere, and I hope we can look forward rather than take a discussion now about who's to blame it is. In the Labour Party, we do not believe that lack of security in the workplace to keep up the work is a good way to ensure good skills, so one might get the impression that a colleague of the Council of State once meant this week. On the contrary, we believe that good pay and working conditions are entirely decisive in securing well-qualified people. So we're worried about the social dumping that happens in many of these workplaces. This is about things about pay and working conditions that are the responsibility of me or the Council of State. But what the board of directors are responsible for is the provision of education and training, the requirements of competence and technical requirements for the car. Furthermore, we have the responsibility that we do not allow a supply system where social dumping with those added as efforts is allowed. In addition, a control system is required in many areas. Should there be fines for, for example: breach of the operating and sleeping characteristics, they must be so large as not to allow enterprises to enter it into the budget and pay these fines instead of complying with the requirements. Ensuring good drivers is decisive to increase road safety, and I hope that the Council of State will take immediate action. We'll follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e261	Interpellant Sigrun Eng brings up a topic that is very important, and I've learned a little more through my former manager, who is now the principal of a vocational school. There is, of course, a combination of several factors that are needed to improve road safety in particular. I think the Minister for Transport made a very important point by mentioning the labour supply of workers outside the EEA, and then it is strange that the inter-pellant party, the Workers' Party, has always been at the head, along with, among other things. LO and other trade unions, in order to prevent foreign workers from entering the Norwegian labour market. At the same time, the interpellant expresses that no parties have any reason to hit their breasts in this matter, and that is probably right. But at the same time, there are some parties that have less reason to get on the chest, when the Workers' Party joined with SV, the Advance Party and the Center Party to cut $30 million. kr to the landlines in the year's budget. The Labour Party has had a desire to cut the landlines for many years. It has been in the budgets for very many years. So a while ago, I got a pretty thorough e-mail from my former class manager who pointed to concerns about cut-offs in the landline offer, precisely on the basis of a road safety considerations. It is a good thing that we now have concerns about this, but it must be a small mistake when the representative Eng says that the EU is a bit in the way of implementing measures nationally, when it turns out that the Labour Party has been a bit in the way of implementing measures nationally. The sum of cuts in landline offers to drivers, cuts in smooth driving training and cuts in equipment appropriations means that the situation is quite serious. The representative Froyn from the same party also said that the state has removed the appropriations for the national lines for the professional drivers. So with all possible respect for political opponents, it's Bjørgulf Froyn and his party traps that have come to the fore that 60 students now have no offer on VK II for professional drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e274	I am glad that the Stortinget today is discussing some of the problems that exist in the transport industry, but this is unfortunately not any new problems. These are also complex problems, but the majority of politicians have much of the blame for the problems that characterise the industry today, among other things. by imposing taxes on the industry. When it costs almost one year to re-register a newer car train in Norway for a fraction in our neighbouring country, this suggests that Norway’s truck park remains old. When Norwegian fuel taxes and other taxes are much higher in this country than in our neighbouring country, this does not strengthen competitiveness or contribute to recruitment. This suggests that wages will then be paid, and this profession also wants better conditions and, of course, more leisure time. When all parties, except the Advance Party, do not want to strengthen the road sector enough in terms of development and maintenance, so that it really monsifies, we get a number of accidents – with death in the worst cases. In the last few weeks, many accidents and near-accidents have affected the number of foreign vehicle combinations involved. These are often wagon trains from Eastern Europe, often cars that have been Norwegian in the past but have been sold for export as they no longer meet Norwegian requirements. These are cars that may not have more than one third of the minimum statutory braking power, car steering gear repaired with tape, worn-out tyres, not chains and many other defects. These are things we can read about every day, and which also affect the reputation of the Norwegian serious truck owners and drivers who, to the best of their ability, take their profession seriously and who are proud of the job they do – a job that is very important in our long-term country. Norway is dependent on this service in order for Norway to develop and for us to be able to live in the districts. In Norway, we have a system of permits for transporting either persons or goods. In order to obtain this right, you need to be schooled, go to a test with an exam and provide a bank guarantee. In addition, there are tariffs for pay and transport. These are things that are a matter of course in Norway, but which are lacking in many other countries. This gives us an unhealthy competition from foreign drivers, which affects the Norwegian industry. Therefore, the foreign vehicle combinations must be checked before entering Norway. If Storting doesn't do anything with all of these problems, then, as it looks, unfortunately, it's just a continuation of what we're experiencing today. Therefore, as the Advance Party wishes, the Storting must strengthen road maintenance and strengthen the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e287	At least today’s interpellation has seen road safety during the lupa. It's been an interesting debate with a lot of input. In any case, I said that with the impression that we are interested in taking the security seriously. Otherwise, I have to admit that I share the concern of the representative Sørensen about the transition of goods from road to road, if we are to release the long trucks freely. Then the state council said that we hadn't given any possibility for chain control. It could be, for example, be the short, quick way to save the situation in winter – not discriminatory measures, but a general requirement that all trucks have chains to get to grips with it. Others would then have thought that most things would be solved if we allowed the import of labour to increase. I'm not quite sure. I heard about a Norwegian company that advertised in a German magazine rather directed against the old East Germany, and that got a response of 1,100 to a job vacancy. I think they're looking for Norway because our salary level is higher than theirs. But what they get when they get here, I'm not sure what they expect. Governments have given a lot of positive feedback, and that's good. We have a common goal, but we're impatient when it comes to the security aspect. We're looking forward to the collective message coming, a message that's going to give the public transport a new one. Security and training must be more closely linked to the policy decisions that are being carried out and also in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e303	I think this has been a useful and important debate, and it has actually been quite large and wide. There has been talk of both safety and training, and there has been talk of recruiting for important parts of our transport industry. I just want to stress that in terms of road safety, we have high, ambitious targets in Norway. I would like to remind you that in the European Union it is about to die. 40,000 people a year on the roads. In Norway, this figure is relatively, fortunately, much lower, but it does not prevent us from continuing to be ambitious. Therefore, security will be very high on the agenda even when we continue to work in this area. I would also like to remind you that we have driving and rest arrangements to ensure both road safety and fair competition and the working environment. It's important to bring it with you. This with tenders was also mentioned and how it works in relation to these aspects. I would also like to point out, as I mentioned in my first post, that there is a sample of the parties that are going to review the Working Environment Act, which will have consequences for the working conditions of these groups of workers as well. It is also worth noting that we live in a world where the labour market is tight. We therefore experience, for example. in the case of the NSB, that it is more difficult to hold the labour force now than it was before, because the labour market is as tight as it is. This may make it more difficult for the NSB to plan both the future needs and the use of drivers than before. But it's still a challenge for the NSB. They have that need, and we as customers need reliable public transport. That's why this is important. But it is also important to look at whether this responsibility should lie alone in the NSB. I imagine that there may be a bit more competition on the rail side. Then it must not be the case that the NSB has a monopoly on drivers. Also from that perspective, it's important to take into account whether we should look at the education of these drivers. In conclusion, I just want to say that these are areas that occupy me very much. I am going to follow this further, both in terms of training, recruitment and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e319	Then the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-01.ana.ud700e330	There is no record.
