ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e49	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e52	On behalf of Per Erik Monsen and myself, I have the exquisite pleasure of promoting a proposal to equalise private rental of boat pitches and boat associations in terms of VAT obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e57	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e79	Last Monday we could read in the Evening Post: «Crise mood in Aetat as unemployment increases». They added that frustrations, sick reports and redundancies prefigure the scene at a time when unemployment increases at a record speed. Labour Director Lars Wilhelmsen told Evening Post that the situation is very difficult, and that the department is unable to provide the service that users are entitled to. He further pointed out that the introduction of the new legislation on return money creates problems, and at the top of the whole, they have had some unexpected problems with the introduction of a whole new treatment system. Aetat also reports that the target achievement in the field of re-entry has been weak in recent years, following a positive trend in the last three years. The number of job-seekers who have to wait for a job is increasing and the rent in the establishment has informed the Ministry of the expected failure to achieve the target, both in the case of measures for the disabled and in the case of ordinary job-seekers. This is not a new signal. At the end of January of this year we could read that adding to Oslo and in Hordaland experienced being killed by frustrated clients. In retrospect, such messages have crept in from all over the country. To name a few: Aetat Finnmark reports killing strokes and high work pressure. Some collapsed at work, and some offices have a sick leave of 20 p.m. Aetat Nordland reports that they have less satisfied users and very tired employees. The time that is left, agrees to donate money. The looking up tool is a front-end word. Rarely have I received so many requests from the stated and frustrated added to Aetat as after this case was signed up. When it comes to sickness absence in the floor, this is twice the height of Aetat compared to other etatas it's natural to compare with. Last year, the total sick absence was 9.3 p.m., and the sick absence has risen very much in the last few years. This can be seen as a strong indicator that the floor is at the breaking point. They also claim that there are several reasons for this. Firstly, Norwegian Civil Service Team reports that it has had a staffing of nearly 1 000 annual work since 1995. Even if the unemployment rate went down in this period, we know that Aetat was also assigned more new tasks. I know that there might be a slight inconvenience about this number of nearly 1,000 year works, if that's right – maybe the Council of State is operating with other numbers, I don't know – but that's actually not the main point. The most important thing is that the department has the staff required by the work situation. Eetat should work towards those groups that need help. As with other States, the budget must work effectively, carry out conversion and quality assurance work. Of course, such processes should continue. But it might seem that they added to Aetat now have reached a limit and have become what I would call a conversion strain. In other words, more conversion in the form of reduced manning and conversion can be difficult to achieve within the framework of a defensive work environment. Now we register that the number of users on re-entry has increased sharply, 11 pst. in the last year, this group currently represents more than 50 pst. of the abstinence. It goes without saying that users on reintroduction are more labour-intensive than ordinary unemployed. The new regulatory framework for the payment of reintroduction money launched on 1 January 2002 has created great frustration. Users now feel that the situation is chaotic. Money is paid late, and the message cards are working badly. Many have suffered significant reductions in their performance, and several users report major economic problems. This situation wears them added to Aetat. In addition, wear them with a lot of extra work and problems associated with the introduction of a new computer system. I'm aware that the new computer system, the so-called step 2, came into use two days ago, on March 6. One would think that this would correct a part of the difficult situation, but I have also been told that some offices have such old machinery that they cannot use the new system. On top of all of this, we also see an increasing trend towards higher unemployment. The government's 30 million budget cut. 2002 was also not a problem for the ethos. The Director-General told us clearly about this. It is positive that the department now allocates 15 million to the department. Extra kroner. I see this as an expression that the government has understood that the cut of $30 million. kr was not considered and the short-term savings wish was at the cost of efforts for qualification and dissemination. But there is still at least a new 15 million missing. to reach the budgetary level to which the Government of Stoltenberg provided. In the course of the budgetary procedure in December, the Labour Party shall warn against this cut. Consider the important role to be played by Aetat in combating unemployment and the need for resources to be seen in the context of other important policy areas, not least in the context of the commitments on an inclusive working life. If this agreement is to succeed, we must also take our responsibility seriously. The Labour Party stated that the team had to be manned in relation to the important tasks that the team was to do, and that it was unwise to reduce its administrative resources. If Aetat is still to be an instrument for the political management of labour market policies, they must have conditions under which to live. I think that Aetat is the most important qualification seat in Norway. The combination of dissemination and qualification is precisely the means needed to make full use of both the labour market and its user potential. Now it's rumored, and it's perhaps more than rumor, that the Council of State wants to tone down the traditional dissemination work and to leave it more to private actors, so that Aetat will thus become more a department for people with disabilities. I can imagine asking the Council of State if this is just a rumor, or if it's such that the Government is now launching a change in Aetat's tasks. If so, has the Council of State considered the professional aspect by taking from Aetat the broad market competence of which the unemployed are new when they are reintroduced through Aetat?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e107	It's a good delivery gel to deal with facts and not rumors. I don't want to go into a line where Aetat is going to end up communicating. On the other hand, I want to deal with the fact that Stortinget has decided that Aetat will not operate with commercial communication. Aetat shall continue to operate as part of its ordinary activities the type of distribution, free of charge, with which the establishment has always operated. At the same time, Aetat has to deal with the fact that, in the extension of the Stoltenberg Government’s proposal and the Storting decision, it is such that commercial dissemination is to be carried out by persons other than Aetat, and Aetat must also provide services to private intermediaries. I also want to make it clear in the introduction that we have not cut the allocation to Aetat. What we have done is not to follow up a proposal from the Stoltenberg government to increase the appropriations for Aetat, but Aetat has today as large resource frameworks as they had last year. I also want to clarify that Aetat – among other things. as a result of the constant change in the course of previous governments in what Aetat is going to do – has had a great deal of uncertainty as to the tasks and direction of development of the establishment. Much of the frustration that exists in the building is due to the constant changes in the course – which, first and foremost, the Stoltenberg government and former governments of the same colour must take responsibility for. When e.g. Last year's sick leave was as high as it was, I think the representative Upbeøen Hansen might be looking elsewhere than at this government to find the explanation for it. Let me then go a little bit more specifically to the themes involved in the Uppebøen Hansen interpellation. One main objective of the conversion of the calculation of rehabilitation and re-employment benefits was to make visible that these life-stay benefits are short-term benefits and not pensions, and that the aim of rehabilitation and re-employment is to return to working life. Rehabilitation and resettlement allowances are therefore now calculated in accordance with the same principle as benefits under unemployment — of earnings prior to the disease. The amendments to the new refurbishment and rehabilitation legislation were fully designed to be cost-neutral. Another main objective of the changes in the calculation rules was to release administrative resources for more active assistance to persons during resettlement. The former legislation was complicated and resulted in an unfavourable division of labour between the social security system and Aetat. In the past, it was the social security fund that calculated and paid the reintroduction money, even if Aetat had assumed responsibility for the reintroduction itself. With the implementation of the new calculation rules, Aetat has been able to calculate the return money. Thus, users can initially relate to one establishment. In a short time, Aetat will also take over the payment of the reinsurance benefits. Thus, the basis has also been laid for improving the deviation between assigned and paid reinsurance benefits, a deviation such as the Riksauditionen in a Document No. 1 has pointed out a few years ago. The new calculation rules are well adapted to the Aetat methodology for the follow-up of users and the new legislation is provided for the release of resources at Aetat to enable them to be used for active assistance to users, rather than the use of resources for administration. In particular follow-up with the use of a notification card has been introduced. This is a well-known method, which has been seen as a good follow-up method for Aetat users. Through the notification cards, Aetat will be able to catch at an early stage different kinds of infringements of the reintroduction so that users will be able to obtain a better follow-up if problems arise as regards the implementation of the reintroduction measure. Let me also give you a brief account of the background of the new payment procedures and the rules for calculating the refund. The payment procedure for the refund has been changed. The refund is now paid in arrears on the basis of the notification cards submitted every 14 days, rather than – as in the past – once a month as partial advance payments. In the transition from partial advance payments to late payments, a one-off shift in payments has occurred. There is a necessary consequence of the changes. The carry-overs in the payments resulted in the beneficiaries receiving reimbursements in January of the year at times and for periods of time other than those they were accustomed to under the old system. I now expect that the payments have largely entered the 14-day cycle that the new rules add up to. For some, this conversion has resulted in a perceived decline in performance. But it hasn't. Overall, they will be paid about the same amount as before. In line with the main objectives behind the conversion – which, as I have been involved, was to change the calculation rules to clarify the short-term performances – a number of concrete performance changes have been made at the same time. Firstly, the contribution is now calculated on the basis of income over the last three years, as for unemployment benefits. Secondly, the reinsurance allowance is reaching retirement income and is 66 pst. of the previous income, with a minimum performance of 1,6 G – against previous 1 G. Thirdly, the formerly tested dependent supplement has been discontinued and replaced by a standard standard child supplement, such as for day-care recipients. Fourthly, the social welfare of households has been abolished, as it was, in addition to being highly administratively resource-intensive, a small system that resulted in unintended discrimination against beneficiaries. Similar social benefits are also not available for any other social security benefits. The transitional scheme for household social assistance was originally proposed for three years but was reduced to one year in the context of the budgetary procedure in autumn 2001. Fifthly, there is a new and far more accurate grant for childcare, which is targeted at expenditures incurred by participating inreduction measures. And sixthly, access to ‘free income’ without gradation of return payments has been removed, as most beneficiaries of return payments will be in full-time recovery measures, and also in the light of their health situation, there is limited opportunity to have labour income alongside. Those who nevertheless have the opportunity to have paid work in addition to the rest of the week may now increase their work up to 60 pst. – against previous 50 pst. - before the return money goes away. In general, I find these changes well-founded. Overall, they build up the social welfare system in a better and more targeted way while providing sufficient incentives for transition to ordinary work. It is difficult for me to reject the fact that some beneficiaries may come out somewhat worse than before, as the assumption of cost neutrality will necessarily lead to greater targeting of benefits resulting in fewer and fewer benefits. However, transitional rules have been put in place to ensure that those who were already in the process of being reinstated at the end of the year receive about the same level of performance. Over the course of the year, we will assess whether adjustments may be needed to prevent adverse outcomes for individuals from occurring in different groups. Although the new legislation involves simplifications that are intended to release administrative resources in the long term, the introduction has unfortunately led to unsatisfactory service for Aetat’s users and put a strong pressure on the establishment and its employees. Aetat has therefore reinforced its efforts to provide information and support to users, in particular on filling out the notification cards, notification cards that the State Council itself has not been able to fill in correctly – but it may be that he was not well qualified. In order to enable Aetat to provide better service in the context of the introduction of the new rules on return benefits, the Government of the revised national budget will propose to strengthen the establishment by 15 million. kr – not on the basis of a recognition that Aeta’s overall framework for the current year is too small, but simply because of the very special problems encountered in the introduction of the new rules. The reporting card system will be reviewed in the light of the experience that the agency is currently doing. I will continue to follow the situation in Aetat very carefully. We're already working on a plan for a fundamental reorganization of the building. We will inform the Storting about that later. In addition, Aetat has implemented the following: Attribution aid will be paid as monthly payments. The money will continue to be paid every 14 days.A telephone centre will be established at Aetat’s service centre in Mo, which will answer users’ enquiries about the notification cards.The control of the notification cards has been temporarily simplified, so that several cards will be dealt with in a shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e170	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It is important to have a common understanding that they have been added to Aetat with a high level of labour pressure for the introduction of a new legislation on reintroduction money and reintroduction aid. These problems and the general resource situation indicate that this will have a clear impact on those looking for Aetat. The Council of State states that the financial framework for Aetat is the same as last year's, and that's right. But the change that has happened is that one has entered into a commitment agreement on an inclusive working life, and in this context, the Stoltenberg government has put in 30 million. kr. That's what the Bondevik government hasn't followed up on. I understand that Aetat is in many ways at a crossroads with the signals contained in the Sem statement about the changes in the tasks of the establishment. I agree with the statement that Aetat should be a qualification seat. But one doesn't have to understand it this way -- and I don't interpret it this way -- that traditional communication is going to go away. If the establishment is to be future-oriented and pursue active labour market policies, it is important that the establishment combines traditional dissemination with qualification measures for the disabled. This is also in line with Aetat’s 2002 letter of award. In other words, Aetat is going to use the entire spectrum of tools, and that's what I would call broad market competence. But I registered what the Council responded to in its first article. So a little bit about the measures that were put in place in connection with the introduction of new legislation on reintroduction. It is not satisfactory that users were informed about the change of rules as early as December last year. It is also not satisfactory that the changes in the rules applied from 1 January of this year. I would like to remind you that when Stortinget dealt with this matter in June 2000, the Labour Party said to its spokesman that when it comes to sick pay, rehabilitation, rehabilitation and disability, it had to be seen in conjunction with the Sandman Committee's setting. On the basis of this, the Labour Party sent its member, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, a letter to the Council of State in December, asking for a postponement of the rule change, and specifically the right to set a free amount next to a reintroduction, so that a person should see this in the context of the Sandman Committee's setting. Then you can discuss whether the performances have decreased for some. One can also discuss the principle of cost neutrality. I thought in many ways that it was very uninteresting. Obviously, you never listen to anything from those who get more performances. At least it is important for the Storting to address the problems that have arisen for those who have had less separation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e183	This cost neutrality system is not indifferent. We must not introduce a system in Norway that is such that we cannot adjust any performance at any time because it means that someone is getting worse. We must be able to have a general claim that benefits should be proportionate, not only to what individuals themselves have received in the past, but also to what others receive in similar situations. It must be possible to implement changes to systems in Norway that give greater fairness between groups and at the same time clarify the purpose of the scheme. And the changes that have been made with regard to reintroduction and reintroduction aid thus serve this purpose. I repeat at the same time what I said earlier: we are going through a review to see if the outcomes for some are so unfortunate that we should do something about it. But essentially, I believe that the changes adopted by the Storting have the right character. So until the introduction problems and the question of changes should have been introduced on 1 January. Of course, you can always say that problems get smaller if we push them in front of us. However, the implementation problems associated with this new system would have come regardless of whether we had waited until 1 March, 1 July, 1 October or 2014. These are problems that have to do with the transition from one system to another. I can't see that the problem in itself would be easier for someone by knowing that we had closed our eyes and said that we were waiting a while and hoping it would pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e192	The labour market is facing its greatest crisis ever. At the same time as unemployment is on its way up and new heavy tasks have been created, the current government of the Stoltenberg government is reducing the proposal for appropriations for Aetat. Inhuman pressure on the staff of the department leads to a record high number of searches. In Fredrikstad, 28 pst are reported. sick leave in Aetat. At an office in Oslo Centre, the sick leave shall be fully up to 60 p.m. It is a paradox that just the Labour Market Act shows such figures, while the Government and the social partners have signed an agreement on an inclusive working life. If there is to be something more than words, the Labour Market Act must be given conditions that enable employees to do their job. However, there are reports of unsustainable situations across the country — unsustainable for job seekers and resettlement clients, unsustainable for employees. Cursed clients respond in their distress for lack of assistance with threats and physical handcuffs. The employees are frustrated not to do their job and get burned out and sick. Government policy to cut $30 million. the budget of the Stoltenberg Government for the establishment of the labour market has been completely misplaced and is far from being corrected by an additional allocation of half of the cut. In addition, when new rules onrehabilitation and rehabilitation money areimplemented without apparent administrative preparation, the disaster is total. Difficult forms, declines in the level of payments and changes in payment procedures have created unintended difficulties for many. We get countless reports from people about re-entry that fights to get back to work and that say they meet the wall because of the new rules. Unpredictability of payments results in more people not being able to manage current expenditure. It tells about debt collection requirements and about degrading trips to the social services. We have agreed in this Chamber that we want to combat poverty. Then we cannot live with this situation, which creates new poor ones. It is urgent for the Government to come back with concrete measures on how to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e207	Rehabilitation and re-employment benefits are, as part of unemployment benefits and sickness benefits, social security benefits for living. They are provided to persons during a conversion period when they are without income from work as a result of health problems. The main purpose of the conversion is to make it visible that rehabilitation and resettlement benefits are short-term benefits, not pensions, and thus that the aim of the benefit is to bring him back to work. Another main purpose of the amendments is for the calculation rules to release administrative resources for more active assistance to persons during resettlement. In the past, it was the social security fund that calculated and paid the reinsurance money, while Aetat administered the benefit itself. This resulted in difficulty in capturing changes in performance. At the time of the implementation of the new calculation rules, Aetat has been able to calculate the recovery money. Thus, users are more likely to relate to one establishment. Later, the department will also take over the payments themselves. A large part of the reductions for those who have received less of these benefits are due to the disappearance of support for household expenditure. This was a support for living that covered the same kind of expenditure that was intended to be covered by the actual living benefit, i.e. reintroduction money. Here, too, there are transitional arrangements. Persons subject to the transitional arrangements may choose to maintain the aid in 2002 or to receive new support for the supervision of children. I would like to mention that the fact that the income itself falls away does not mean that you have less chance of income from work until the benefits also fall away. In addition, it must be pointed out that while re-training, it is a point to learn the best and the fastest possible way to get back to work. The changes that have taken place collectively have not weakened the return options. There is only one redistribution between different beneficiaries. Unfortunately, some practical problems have arisen with regard to the notification cards of Aetat. They have to be solved, and my impression is that these problems are now in the process of being overcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e226	I don't know, but I wonder if it was the Council of State that was involved in the comparison between sickness and unemployment benefits and professional recruitment. Here's a difference, a significant difference. Sick pay is paid in a transitional phase until you can return to work. In other words, you don't know how long you're sick. Unemployment benefits are calculated on the basis of the sending of a report card, because one is considered to be a jobseeker. A return benefit is paid to a person who has entered into an agreement for a longer study, or – I was about to say – an upgrade of their previous competence, in order to get to work. The time period that this will last is more predictable. So I can't understand the arguments about the big savings potential that you see here by turning this into two payments a month instead of one. Personally, I must at least say as follows: It must then be more expensive to make two such rounds instead of one. In any event, this case clearly shows that there is an urgent need for a pooling of social services, social services and the labour market situation. Then we could have an effect on the competence that the different offices hold today. Today it acts almost as if there are watertight bulkheads between the individual offices, and not least between the different responsibilities. We need better interaction, and this is urgent. In connection with the subsequent treatment of the Stortinget Ot.prp. No 29, which goes into what is agreed between LO, NHO and the state, to do, which is now under consideration in the committee, and where I am the case rapporteur, one will just look at some of these problems in order to get people back to work and to reduce sick leave in Norway. One of the most important points is: on the so-called ‘organisation grant’ to the establishments. Here, from the Government's side, you have added up to NOK 250 in an organization grant, and we'll get back to that when this is dealt with in this room later, because that's at least a sum that's too small. But one thing I hope the Council of State can admit here, and that is that at least the information has been too bad. It has been too late for information to users, and it has been partly too bad. That's what has put a lot of people in a special pinch. It should have gone inwards. It should also be considered to help those people who have received a debt collection claim because they have not been able to pay their rent, and those who have received a debt collection claim because the child care payment – and the payment for a number of other benefits – is due only once a month. This should at least take inwards and make sure that something is done about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e239	I must admit that I was quite sorry when I heard the introduction of the Council of State today. Away was an offensive state council focusing on users and cooperation with employees. And we heard the same lesson that we've heard from many before him, focusing on bureaucracy, on computational systems and that we've figured this out for people. In practice, it has been shown how this works, and it has now been shown that this has gone quite wrong for many. I also think it is a little late for the majority here to wake up and see what happened when the conversion of the return system was introduced, in particular the principle that the conversion would be cost-neutral, which SV was only about believing was no principle. There are not large social security benefits that have increased the differences in this country. That's not where it is. So if we're going to have a redistribution on behalf of the poorest, we're going to have to aim that the social security benefits you get are so that you can live off them and do it. In a recovery phase, it's just that you have to recover health, take courage and have faith that this is just going on. But what's going on now? Now people just have to focus on bills, bills, bills -- am I okay, am I okay, am I okay? And the worst thing about such a situation that you put people in now when you haven't managed to plan this in a sensible way is that people actually have to go to the social office. And then what happens? Well, then the law comes in there, which says you're going to realize your values before you get help. Sell the car! Sell the house! Do we think it's kind of in the moment that people face and manage to do a re-introduction? No, this is under any criticism. I have a specific question for the Council of State. I know that the Council of State has now implemented a number of measures. I'm not particularly impressed with them. But what is most important now is that those who have come into economic ruin because of this mess will be covered their expenses, including the extra expenses that are incurred because they do not get their money when they are going to. I guess most people have problems when they don't get paid their pay when they're going, and the less you have, the worse it is. Here, people are facing serious payment problems, so they are facing debt collection claims and getting comments about their ability to pay. I expect the Government to now ensure that these people receive temporary benefits through the social services, that they are covered by their additional costs, and that the State compensates the municipalities for the additional costs that this has entailed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e248	There is no doubt that the situation is a crisis in Aetat. The many letters and melanos give clear messages. It is also serious that because of the failure of public services, individuals have problems paying their expenses. But that this should be the biggest challenge anywhere, as the representative Britt Hildeng says, I don't understand. We still have a very low unemployment rate, and Aetat is dealing with much more extensive unemployment before. For Aetat, things have gone off in an unfortunate way. First it was turbulent times, with cheating and fantasy. Then the focus was on Aetat Business, which collapsed as a card house. Then came new replication rules and not least the introduction of a new computer system. We – most of us – have to take joint responsibility for the new rules of recycling. It was also supposed to be a zero-sum game, where those who were once least had to get a little bit more, and where those who had the most lost a little bit. And the latter is obviously difficult and perhaps not an answer to the poverty problem, but it's not necessarily unfair. It was also provided that the various social welfare schemes could be compared. What surprises me is that new arrangements create so much root. There are arbitrary arrangements for those who have come out badly, with any debt collection, as many have mentioned, because of system errors and card tariffs in Aetat. The idea that Aetat should become a qualification seat to a greater extent is challenging. Everyone wants change, but no one wants change, it's called. The Christian People's Party believes it's important that Aetat is able to do the very important job of qualifying people so that they can get back to work. The opportunities for participation in the labour market are important for self-respect, for economics and for social contacts. This is about man's future, and about a working labour market. Then the department must leave data troubles, complaints storms, delays and unintelligible notification cards. I thought it was funny that both Regeninga and Aetat have taken care of the problems. I hope that's $15 million. kr may create a bit of optimism, and I cannot escape the idea that the liquid problems most users have could be significantly reduced if the possibilities of exemption had not been removed. It's never too late to turn around. Work is positive, even if it happens on weekends while qualifying for new tasks. So a little word in the end: as a mother of four children, I'll say 17 per cent. Children’s care today is a joke.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e273	There is a need for a debate on the capacity to participate in the labour market. One of the five strategies in the Smooth message is a softer workline. It means a stronger commitment to the participation of more people in the labour market, and it involves legislative changes to be closed. The centre party will have a public labour market seat to provide both jobseekers and job-seekers. We want to add knowledge and insight to the many individuals who need advice, guidance and follow-up. We want to add those who can play teams with public and private companies and organizations, and we know that it means a crew that is consistent with the tasks to be solved. We stuck with the 30 million that were deposited by the Stoltenberg government, because we thought it was necessary for 2002. Now we are in a situation of increasing unemployment – 80,000 unemployed. So even more than last year, there is a need for individual guidance, follow-up and enhanced cooperation with external partners. Now we see that the number of sick messages is increasing, and that there is frustration among those added. And then there will be a change in legislation, for which the Storting must take responsibility, a change in legislation that comes before the necessary training and information is given and the technical is in place. The last thing I think is that both the magnification and the government have to go inward, that there has to be a connection between the introduction date and the instructions that are to be in place at the front. In the case of new rules on rehabilitation, the Workers' Party, through the welfare notification, has taken the initiative for a new regulatory framework for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Many years have passed, and many calculations have been made to ensure a simpler and more prudent regulatory framework. In spite of this, it is now embarrassing to note that this legislation is not in the best interests of the most disadvantaged in the face of practice. There was no such thing as meaning. The center party, which was involved in this, at least didn't mean to frame those who now have the lowest income. I share here Karin Andersen's assessment. Now the government has one thing to do, and it's temporary to clean up, advance the municipalities to give those who are now the most difficult, order in the bills, courage and faith, so that they can really come back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e288	After all the enquiries I've received after New Year's on new rules for refurbishment and rehabilitation, there's no doubt that this has given many unfortunate results and many despaired people. The new rules have been a disaster for many, says the head of district work at Aetat in Moss. Those are strong words, but they actually come from someone sitting in the middle of it. And there's hardly any local in this country who haven't had a huge deal on the subject. Psychiatric health protection in Eastfold, which also follows drug clients over several years, from protection to hospitalisation and then institution treatment, tells of a former heroin user who is in the process of reintroduction. As for all others who are going through such a race to get out of work and get out of work, this race started with social assistance as the only economic source of income, and then turns to rehabilitation money and, finally, vocational rehabilitation. Until this year, these have been economically independent. But from the New Year, they experience a huge economic decline as they go from rehabilitation money to vocational rehabilitation, and the entire rehabilitation process, which so far has cost the state a lot of money, stops. In this case, gross monthly income decreased from approx. NOK 10000 to NOK 6600. Then I ask, is this the security we want to give these people? The Labour Party believes that the Government must now clean up. Have the Storting decided something where the consequences are as great as what we hear about in many cases, we have to be willing to review this again. And when the government additionally cuts in the budgets of Aetat and grants 30 million. kr less than the Workers' Party, which means fewer jobs and fewer people to deal with the problems, has, of course, further reinforced chaos, even if there is an additional allocation now in March. This is very serious. There have been so many financial problems in the transition to the new scheme that they consider interrupting the resettlement plan and seeking disability benefit. Others have had to go to the social office to get help. The working party believes that we must take this seriously and clean it up. We are very busy getting fewer on disability benefits and more in work. Then these have to apply, get the opportunity to do that. If the Bondevik government is serious about its commitment to poverty measures, which they have been strongly involved in and said, it is actually strange that they are weakening the means we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e301	I get bored if the Storting and the Government just become a strong defender of the system and don't put the users in focus. Cost neutrality is not indifferent,' said the Council of State, and I can agree on that. It's important to take a height for it, and it's important to take a height for a fair system. But I don't agree with the Council of State that the introduction problem would come anyway. The computer system that was introduced two days ago was, of course, the system to deal with the payments – the benefits. At least it should have been in place before the rule change came into force. The benefits of rehabilitation should come back to us as we know it – there are already proposals for improvements to treatment in Stortinget. But in this context, it is equally important to focus on the working environment that we experience in Aetat. There is evidence that the state of the building is such that it is a very large percentage of sick leave. It's a big element of stress and stress damage, and not least they feel they're adding a bad conscience there because they can't do the job that they know they're going to do, that's to provide service to users in line with what users require. This has become a bad circle. In fact, the situation is that those who are going to get people a job – that is, those who are going to work to convey work to people – themselves get sick in the system they are experiencing today. Now rapid and good action is important. No one is interested in users losing confidence in the most important qualification seat in Norway. I hope that the Government will provide 15 million in addition to the signals we have received today. kr to Aetat in connection with the revised budget, will also raise the risk when it comes to the problem of the working environment in Aetat, that the Government will see closer to the manning situation, so that they can add to the job they have set to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e310	The representative Eye hoped that the government would ‘clean up’, and we do that with the greatest pleasure. We are constantly cleaning up the matters that the previous government left behind. The crisis in Aetat is one of the things that the previous government left behind. The rules for reintroduction are something Stortinget and previous governments have left behind. We're doing that cleanup, and we're taking it very seriously. I think it was very sad that the representative Karin Andersen perceived it there that we were not concerned about putting the users in focus and doing something for them. That is exactly what we have been doing in implementing the rules for reintroduction. These include: therefore we are now assessing the appropriateness of the notification card system. We are in the process of fully reviewing whether the benefits will result in an adverse outcome, and whether adjustments will therefore be necessary. That's why we say that the information and training work in Aetat needs to be strengthened. If it didn't come out clearly enough in my first post, I'll just clarify it now. Uppøen Hansen said we were defenders of the system. I can assure Mr. Hansen that we are not! We are working on a concrete action plan for the transformation and implementation of Aetat into the qualification kit that everyone is talking about so nicely. I'll have the opportunity to come back to it a little bit in connection with the next interpellation, so I can assure you that we won't be system defenders. On the other hand, we have a great deal of respect for the Storting. Once the Storting has adopted a new system for reintroduction, it will be implemented and we will try to make implementation as clean and quick as possible. We've tried to do that. A few details – just for mentioning it too – in this context: Some users came out very unfortunate in January in connection with the transition. We're very worried about them, and I want to make it clear that many of them got financial help right away. We've asked the department to look at the question of whether there are any of these that have come out particularly unfortunate, because we didn't get the auxiliaries in time. Unfortunately, I cannot give a general guarantee that in situations where a public agency or other employer would be late for payment, all the accompanying costs arising in this connection must also be covered. But we have asked the department to look at the problems of the individual ships, which started in January. Questions were asked if the information was too bad. Yes, the information was too bad! That's one of the reasons why we've gone in with extra funds. Questions have been asked about: Is a 14-day registration card necessary for re-entry? We have asked Aetat to consider whether this is necessary, but we have to remember that replication is a much more complex image now than it was before, and there is a need for close follow-up in some cases. Is it necessary to have payments every 14 days? Can't you have them for months? So half will now be paid monthly, and not every 14 days, so we're trying to be present. We don't think the system is perfect, but we're working on getting better. So in the case of Aetat as such, we don't want to defend the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e323	Then the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e341	This will be an extension of the previous interpellation. The starting point here is that the Government and the Storting have said that poverty reduction is a major task. It's probably not the whole truth that work is the only key to this. Social security must also be to live off, for someone has to have it. In addition, everyone has said that it should be easier to combine work and social security. There is an agreement on an inclusive working life, and everyone wants to make it easier for more people to provide for their own work. And then what does one do? Well, at the first crossroads, you go into the apparatus that's going to help people get to work. I regret to say that the Council of State went to the first 'examination' when it came to modernising and combating poverty. He strove to follow his own premise when it came to keeping the workers in focus in the process, which was the first post I heard from the Council of State holding here in the Storting, and in having a user perspective. I must unfortunately say that I think one is left with pure rhetoric and little action. I perceive that the Council of State has not listened to the users, who for several years have pointed out that they do not receive help and individualization, and that he has not listened to the employees, who have pointed out the same thing for several years. It was a bit embarrassing, but necessary retreat that came with a post-allocation. But the damage is extremely great for those who are affected, not just because they get into an economic crisis, but because they lose their courage in a phase in which they should face it. Many interrupt. This is a bomb at all points of achievement. I assume the council knew what he was doing when he cut 30 million. kr, because even in the State budget, it says that unemployment is going to increase. The amendment of the rules on readmission was adopted by Stortinget in May 2000, so it was relatively time. Although the Council of State was not responsible for this entire period, it was possible to pull the brakes. That there are many big and new tasks, you knew about, and that you had a new computer system that wasn't completely without problems, you also knew about. It was known that sick leave and “turnover” were alarmingly great. And despite the fact that the Council of State – I assume – knew this, you cut it. It is such that some of the things to be more effective in this department are the usual dissemination work. I am happy when the Council of State says that Aetat is still going to do it. But what we know about this kind of communication is that in a way, it's the ones that are the most demanding, that require the most of the time. And when you streamline the bit that's going to be easier communication, it doesn't really help when you think you're going to get a lot more resources out of it. There's a kind of a 20-80 pst rule on this, which at least applies in economic theory. And in addition to this, you've been equipped with a computer system just on the piece that needs to be streamlined, on the usual communication, which seems a lot more complicated. All the messages I get from those who sit and do this service are that it is much more heavy now than it was before, and that in addition they do not get an answer to a good part of the questions they have. When this has not gone completely wrong now, it is well because social service employees have also cleaned up for Aetat. SV has been a strong champion of merging Aetat, social security and social security offices, but I have to say that I am worried about this matter. If the social office, which has now rocked this, is to be dragged into the same crisis that Aetat is now in, then I'm worried. Much of today's labour market is staggering, and people are being pushed out. But it's even worse to stand outside. They experience a massive demand to get into work and work, they experience bad advice, many have and get health, social and economic problems, and they meet an auxiliaries who can't help them. Now we have heard from around the country, and I can take some other counties from which I have received messages. From Florø it is reported that the work force is now running out of control. They've been in constant downsizing and conversion for many years, gone from 14 to 8 added, and sick leave is twice as high as in the state. They have funds for action, but they have no one to put them into action. In Fredrikstad Aetat they have 28 pst. sick leave! They report that the Protection Ombudsman has said from above in the system, but is not being heard. Cosmo put in a phone call for employees in the state, so they could call in some good tips and get a Danish tour in a premium. I would recommend that you listen seriously to your employees; they have a lot of sense to come with. So in addition, the department of economy in Fredrikstad has been shut down twice a week because they are not doing this pressure. So here people meet closed doors and short opening hours – not very modern and efficient, you ask me. If you call and you have to hear half of the ‘Skebnesymphony’ on your ear before you receive a reply, the ringcard is exhausted and you have not received any money on your social security, then a reasonable doubt becomes. Many users also say that they must accept the frustration of employees over this situation when they come and have enough of their own problems. Then to the computer system. So the Arena system that's been introduced should do things better. The council assures in reply to me that it has. But I'm kind of in the mood, because the messages from the employees and from the different offices are very different. I was in a radio debate with the Council of State this week. The Council of State said that the employees cannot know whether this system is good enough because they have not yet implemented it. I guess that's a truth with modifications. Parts of this system are in use. What is called main delivery 1, as far as I know, has been used from April 2001. Primary delivery 2 is put into service today and main delivery 3 is to be used later. For example, I'm sitting. by a letter from the Chief Trust Committee in Trondheim to the superiors stating that experience can be summarized as follows: It is an extremely demanding and time consuming system. The requirements for detailing and diversity of information are enormous, and the system requires a level of recording that in practice cannot be achieved under the pressure of work that is common in the job centres and in addition a number of other complaints on this system. So it has been recorded with the registration cards, and it is correct that the Riksrevision has imposed a kind of registration card on this. But must it be so difficult? Could it be that the Council of State is not doing it? I'm a dyslexic soul, and Aetat knows that a lot of those who line up with them are dyslexics and have problems with this. And yet you're making a kind of a double extra tippupong that's almost impossible to understand. And when people send in the cards, they have huge consequences – because you don't get your money! Had it even been that you had received the money and could then have cleaned it up afterwards. No, this system is not modern and effective, and it is not user-friendly at all. So a little bit to Aeta's role. SV believes that Aetat should have a broad role in labour market policy, and that this should not just be a budget for people with special problems. Five consecutive years, the Statistical Centre has shown that measures for the unemployed work. 42 pst. get a job with action, 28 pst. without, and twice as many start in regular education. There can be no point in not increasing efforts in this area. And what we know we have to do is to increase it on qualification, and that it's relatively long-term measures. Today's labour market does not have open arms and shouts for people who do not have enough skills, and not for people with different health problems and who have been out of the labour market for some time. Labour market policy is important for the overall policy, and Aetat's broad interface in practice provides good and necessary knowledge for policy-makers, including at large and government level. There is not enough of the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic systems to know what this is like. We're going to know what it's like in practice. This is important for business, it is important for welfare and equalisation policy, it is important for empowerment, which is the key to the future society, and it is important for regional and district policies. This is an area that needs far more attention than it has today, and that needs something quite different than a short-sighted focus on saving as much money as possible on the means both to enable the nation to exploit all the resources we have, and also to enable the individual to stand on its own feet as possible, and I hope that the Council of State and the SV can agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e362	I wish Aetat’s problems could be solved by replenishing money! It's not like that. Aetat has, as I see it, given enough resources in relation to the tasks to be solved, that the establishment is organised and operated in an efficient and appropriate way. However, the budget must be substantially converted. In this context, it is necessary to clarify what the establishment is going to do, and why. It must be provided with framework conditions reflecting these tasks and it must be given a form of management and an organisation adapted to these tasks and frameworks. Workplaces in Norway were largely established in their time to distribute industrial workers and seafarers to factories and ships. It was a job that was important, and they did well. However, the need for this type of employment service — of uniform labour force for homogeneous enterprises — has gradually become the exception rather than the rule. Both the supply and demand side of the labour market has become much more diverse and complex. With that, communication has become a complicated puzzle game where you have to find exactly the person who fits a tailor-made job. In addition, characteristics other than purely formal qualifications have become important for many jobs, and employers are therefore increasingly in need of selection processes that go beyond purely job placement. This has created a market for private intermediaries that can offer services in addition to the free services provided by Aetat. One of the issues relating to Aeta's tasks is the role of the establishment in this new labour market. The second key issue concerns access to labour. When the employment offices were established, there was also a simple question. Then it was a matter of course that the Norwegians, quite rightly with the line below the last syllabus, worked from 17 to 18 years old until they left retirement as 70-year-olds, and almost all of them had the necessary prerequisites to do a job. Today, the main problem for many jobseekers is that they lack the qualifications that employers demand. At the same time, the initial age of the labour force is for many near 30 years, and the average retirement age has fallen to 59 years. In addition, there is a large and increasing number of people with long-term sick leave or with different forms of disability, which means that we are also not fully exploited by the rest of the potential workforce. That's where Aetat's main task lies, and must lie. We have to mobilise more of the labour force, and we have to make sure that the jobseekers have the qualifications that the market needs. In line with the Sem Declaration’s Government stated that Aetat should develop into a ‘qualification seat’. There is reason to make it clear that it itself does not represent a dramatic change in price. In the last few years, Aetat has been through a major shift towards a ‘qualification seat’. It's e.g. it is worth noting that Aetat now has more disabled persons than ordinary job seekers on action. Therefore, the objective of the Sem Declaration is more a continuation and clarification of a starting line than a reversal of the course. But it remains – and it is central – to adapt the organisation to these new tasks. Some have perceived this task-presence until the department no longer works with the employment service or has contact with the business community. It's wrong. The concept of a ‘qualification seat’ is that Aetat should provide tailor-made offers to individual jobseekers — whether they need little or substantial support, whether they are initially called job-seekers or ordinary jobseekers — in order to bring them to a point where they can be provided to work as much as possible. When they get to that point, the department is going to do what it's always done: help people out of work by familiarizing the companies with the jobseekers and their qualifications, and by making job offers known to the jobseekers. The only new in this respect is that there are now two types of enterprises that are interested in jobseekers – enterprises that are required to have people themselves, and private intermediary companies that are interested in candidates for dissemination. However, as a qualification seat, Aetat needs a different framework than it has traditionally had. One side of this is the question of what the department itself is going to do, and what is to be left to others. Given that the establishment is to be responsible for a good qualification offer to the individual, it should not itself be a course or action organiser. The principle should be that the agency acquires concrete qualification services in the market – by private or public providers – and is responsible for ensuring that the quality of those services meets its objectives. This is already largely the case, but the principle should be clarified and applied as a guide to the business. Another important aspect is the financing of the business. Today, Aetat is financed as a body through appropriations relating to the general level of activity of the establishment, while actions towards users are financed through separate, and partly rule-driven, schemes. In order to encourage and give as much as possible preconditions for qualification work, it is natural to finance the activity much more through pure-bred activity and performance-based schemes. The establishment should receive qualification grants, differentiated according to the needs of the users, for the work with the individual and thereby receive both the opportunity and encouragement to qualify as much as possible. It is also natural that the department receives grants depending on how many jobseekers actually get a job – whether they get a job directly via Aetat or indirectly via private intermediaries who pick them up from Aetat’s CV base. With clearer business frameworks and more activity and performance-based funding, it is also natural to assess whether the establishment should be given a more freer position and more responsibility. In the longer term, it is not unnatural to consider whether others, too, could be involved as qualification actors, and it is already natural to think about the way Aetate is to be organised and developed. Now is not a clearer vision and better framework conditions enough to create a better Aetat. In addition, major and demanding work needs to be done on the adaptation and development of the organisation. It's a job that the establishment and its management themselves have to do. At the political level, we can and should ensure that the necessary freedom of action is given to the development of the organisation. In this context, in a few weeks' time, I will be promoting a proposition to repeal the provisions that currently prevent the effective organisation of Aetate. The remainder is then up to central and local management in the department, to individual employees and to employees’ organisations. I expect the department to take that challenge, and I hope and expect both the organisations and the political environment to stop working to return to Aetat as a central player in the labour market in Norway. It's important that the establishment believes in itself. I'm afraid that the crisis focus that many, both in the organizations and in the political environment, have contributed to the last few weeks and months, not exactly is what the department needs to get up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e388	We're not going to have a 'crisis focus', the Council of State says. In a way, it proves once again that focusing on those who are supposed to be helpers is not the most important thing. We got a review now of how the Council of State thinks of its own and Right political organisational theory of how things should be. It's going to be a result unit, it's going to be organised bit by bit, you're going to get the money, they're going to follow the users, and it's going to be a kind of reward system into this system. I just want to shout a big warning: remember what happened in Aetat when they were asked unilaterally to focus on dissemination numbers! It went so wrong that you had to go in with large commissions of investigation, and heads rolled. It was not pleasant for anyone. So we need to focus on what to do here. You can't, as the Council of State says, expect everyone to follow this theory, because that's fine. The point is we have to focus on users, because they know where the shoe prints. I have traveled so much around the workplace in the last five years that I know that there are a lot of competent people there who are able to sew together arrangements that make people come and do things to get to work. I've been very impressed by the job many of these have done with people who I wouldn't have thought would have done it, but who have done it. And that's why it's important to focus on competence and how users perceive this, and not on the Right Principle Program, when organizing this work. There is no need for more money, says the Council of State. Well, that's it! In the context of the budget, the Council of State considered that there was no need for more money, but it did not go more than a month before it became clear to everyone that there was a need for more money. So I have to apologize, but I do not believe in the assurance that there is no need for more money. It may not be when you get organized properly and better and in a different way, but then you have to do it first. And then you have to know what to do. You can't just use the savings knife first -- because you have an ideology that says you have to do it -- and then figure out that this didn't work out so well. Now you have to run a process where those who need this system are also heard. I would recommend, for example: also listen to the organisations of the job-seekers and their experience with the meeting with this department. There's a lot to pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e397	I am very pleased that the representative Karin Andersen mentioned the organisations of the job seekers. Because otherwise I have to say it struck me in the first post of Karin Andersen and in the line now that it is said that we have to listen to the users, and all that is told is that we have to listen to the employees. I am concerned that we should listen to both the users and the employees, but we must not get there that we believe that the employees are the only ones who are able to assess the needs of the users. There are many others who are also able to do so. I also believe that Karin Andersen and I can disagree with the organisation and the use of instruments. I have to propose a scheme for Aetate that reflects what I think professionally and politically is a proper organization, and then we have to disagree about it. But I think at least we have to agree that a system that makes Aetat get more money if they can qualify more, or get more out of work, is a system that will initially force Aetat to listen to users and focus on users' needs. The central thing about user focus is not what Karin Andersen or the Council of State had to be able to listen to, because it's not us who are going to drive Aetat, it's not us who are going to do the work to the users. It's the people who work in the building, who are going to try to develop arrangements that work in relation to the users. And then I might have the naive belief that if you get money depending on what you do with the users, and how big a task you face with the users, it all leads to getting a stronger user focus than you would otherwise have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e404	It is important to focus on the current weakening of labour market policies. Many enterprises lack labour and this occurs in an increasing period of unemployment. And the weakening that's now taking place in Aetat, means that more people are going to be unemployed. The last talk tells us that the number of both the unemployed and the long-term unemployed is increasing. The government and the Stortinget are investing in an inclusive working life through the intentional agreement that it has been referred to earlier here today. This agreement now lives an uncertain life in my opinion. I'll give it a reason. As I see it, the government will return to the revised budget with a promise of 15 million. kr. These funds are going to take unexpected problems in Aetat, as I understand the Council of State, and not the intentional agreement on an inclusive working life. The work environment in Aetat means that the impact of communication is not good enough, and it happens not least to immigrant groups and those with disabilities. When the Council of State quotes the Sem declaration and says that Aetat should be a ‘qualification seat’, I agree with him in it. But I think we're going to put different interpretations into what a qualification seat is. Anyway, I know that there's a lot of uncertainty about the line that the government wants for Aetat. I don't get this quite clear, and I will once again ask this question to the Council of State, and ask him to answer it at the end of the debate: Is it so that Aetat shall the traditional dissemination work be slowed down to the best of the work to be done for the disabled person? The representative, Andersen, was in on the new computer system. Yeah, that's exactly the same signal I've been given. The system that was introduced a year ago works very hard, and it's time consuming. Delivery 2, which was seen in action this week, is, as I said before, too early to capture any of them yet. But at least it may seem strange that what was supposed to be a payment system was not finished until the rule change for reintroduction was introduced. I see that my time is running out, and then I just get to stop here. But I think there are two important interpellation debates we have had today, and it is very important to focus on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e423	Former governments have waved in terms of what they want with Aetat, and it looks like this hall continues to do it. The project with Aetat Company was in itself a big change, a big change when it was made, and a big change when it was phased out. This government wants the wing stopped. We define the role of Aetat as an important tool in labour market policy, the main objective of which is to get people to work. The lines that were drawn up in the Sem statement are to a large extent what Aetat is doing today. The political signals that have been given, including: in the 2002 letter of award, it is very clear what the agency is going to do, and there should be no doubt about what we want it to do. Aetat still has a job placement responsibility. But the establishment shall cooperate with the private where appropriate. Aetate shall have a strong focus on qualification work. In order to maximise qualification and dissemination, the funding of the EEAS should be based more on performance-based schemes. The main objective of Aetat shall be to assist priority users, namely young people, the long-term unemployed and immigrants. This room now has an opportunity to provide Aetat with stable working conditions and let Aetat itself build an organisation that is in line with our priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e432	Initially, I will give praise to the Council of State for his contributions. He showed quite clearly that in this case one wants to put the user in focus. I think the interpellant forgot very much about it. She talked a lot about the floor, but she didn't talk about who the floor was for. It's very important that we focus on this, that the department is there for the users and not the opposite, as some public authorities seem to believe in part. I also believe that the intention agreement between the social partners and the state to be dealt with in this Chamber before Easter is important, i.e. the legislative changes to be made to that effect. Part of the debate has agreed to anticipate the events, at least when it is said that it does not seem that the intention agreement is being followed. Well, first of all, we have to make sure that the law comes into place so that we can see if this agreement can work. But I think we're losing focus on how to solve some of these issues. I guess it was just the interpellant who was in the process of bringing together the social services, the social security system and the labour market system. This is very important, especially because some of those who are going out again in the labour market have been in favour of long-term illness, who are former drug users — and others who have fallen out of the labour market. How are they going to get back to work? As today's system works, you probably don't have sufficient competence in all these disciplines. The Minister for Social Affairs has pointed out that there is work to be done on the division of labour between these departments, possibly co-location, perhaps aggregation. For the Progress Party, which has been a champion to merge these floors, it is important that we merge them and not just provide for a co-location. This is important, so you get one department that has the primary responsibility. It is important to be able to follow the user from the time he comes to the public office — follow him throughout the course, provide advice and make sure that he gets the offer he needs before he or she may be out of work again. I also believe that it is very important to consider how we follow up on the Memorandum of Understanding that will soon be adopted in this Chamber. It is important that employers receive the incentive to do so, the framework agreement to which it applies, in order to facilitate employment. It's costing me a lot of time. But society will benefit from it in general, and in particular, the workers and users who will be able to get an organized job will benefit from a change in the system. So I hope that this agreement will work well, and I have great faith in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e445	Norman said he wanted to return to Aetat. It was a good statement, and I can imagine, both from past experience and from current experience, giving the Council of State some good advice on the way to repatriating Aetat. My first advice to the Council of State is to have a predictable framework in Aetat. In recent years, employees have been busy constantly discussing the amount of resources they have at all times. This is not an annual phenomenon, but several times a year, the so-called job allocation model is a major issue among employees. It takes too much of Aetat's resources to spend time discussing the number of jobs to be filled, etc., and you take away the attention from what you're going to do. So my recommendation number. 1 is a predictable framework, as the rest of the business community asks for. I also think Aetat should get that – at least over a certain period of time so that you do not need to have this discussion continuously. My second advice is flexibility. Today, we have too rigid a regulation that is imposed from the Directorate of Labour and down to the various employment offices. Our country has different relationships, and it requires different ways to solve the different problems. I use to say it so that the wit is evenly distributed in this country. And I think there's as much sense in the offices around as it is in the Directorates and in the Departments. Yes, maybe it's sometimes more wise when you get out further! By that I mean to say that it is not that a rigid code is always the best. Sometimes, in order to get people to work, flexible solutions need to be developed in collaboration with others, which are actually in conflict with the legislation, but which serve both the individual jobseeker and not least the society because of solutions. It must not be that a person has to go x the number of months off to get a training to get out of work. It is appropriate that the person who becomes unemployed undergoes training already after five days because there is a chance and because it makes sense. You have to have that kind of solution. My third advice concerns this with measurement. We know that the work offices have to be measured all the time. But measurement does not always give the right image. Karin Andersen thought of the same thing: It is a significant difference when you figure out how many people get into work – if you get one out of work one day to feel a roof on a garage somewhere versus that you get one who has worn out for many years, into permanent work. In fact, the work of getting some people out of work can be a lot of weekly work, while for others one can fix it in a few minutes. Therefore, you must not be too busy with measurement, but look more at the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e456	It has been said in the debate today that the labour market is in its worst crisis for a long time. I'm wondering, like the Council of State, if there's a positive approach to the complex problem that we're facing here. What is clear is that Aetat is facing significant challenges, whether or not we should say problems. The users of the establishment clearly feel that you do not get the services you expect and that you need. And there are several reasons for that, as it has been mentioned today. It can be pointed out that one of the stress factors, namely the introduction of the new computer system, is likely to lead to both savings and efficiency in the long term, and it is important to take this into account. The challenges of Aetat therefore appear to be acute now, but they are obvious both in the long term and to a large extent related to the necessary development and adaptation of the organisation. There is no doubt that both management and office have a very central role here. For the political discussion, it is therefore important that we have the long-term perspective with us. I also think it is important to recognise that we in this room actually have a common commitment to this matter and can thus become a little bit more constructive in some discussions. Work on Aetat must be a hard work between the department and the political authorities. This shows that what is now, from the political point of view, the first thing to do is to ensure a balance between the tasks that we are entrusting to Aetate and the resources that we provide. As pointed out, among other things: from the representative of Gitmark, it is also important to provide long-term leadership for the establishment. It also seems as part of the frustration within Aetat has its background in not fully seeing its future role. It is typical for any organisation experiencing uncertainty about its future task that the wear and tear of the people in the organisation is becoming unreasonable. As the interpellant pointed out, Aetat has a very central role in giving as many people as possible the ability to live by their own power, as we say in Christian democracy. Work is a matter of dignity. It is a matter of personal development. It's a matter of man-processing. Work is, of course, our future, major challenge in ensuring the well-being of this country. The discussion about the qualification tool Aetat is complex and important to take, and it is important that we come out with a result that gives the unit stable tasks in the future. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Solberg Council yesterday stressed that the Government is following closely the development of unemployment, especially among young people, and promised to return to Stortinget, possibly with new resources if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e473	There is something self-contradicting about the Government's signal currently. The Ministry of Social Affairs reports that several departments are now working to secure an action plan against poverty. The search light shall be set on actions to help individuals out of a difficult situation. Many who wear out in this country have taken a fresh turn as a result of these signals. That's good. But then it's going to go really crazy in that department in Norway that's going to have the main responsibility to help more people get the opportunity to participate in the world of work, i.e. the ability to stand on their own and the ability to get out of a difficult economic situation and a difficult life situation. In order to improve, it is vital to listen to those who have experience as job seekers. It is important to listen to young people who, in fact, – I have met them – have been advised to seek employment. They have been advised to go straight to social security. And it's important to listen to those added who currently have competence, and who are now struggling between pressure, expectation and disease, and to the point where they actually experience rejuvenation in relation to what they're actually doing. The Minister of Social Affairs has already stepped up his efforts. I understand that the Council of State Norman today announces a freer position and greater self-responsibility for Aetat. I think there's every reason to ask questions about whether that's what's the solution. But let me say: the centre party will give its full support to what is involved in softening the legislation, so that Aetat locally, for example. should be more able to play with municipalities and local companies in order for more people to get a job. We are also going to set the regulatory luminosity in relation to the requirements that are currently being imposed when the time period is to be available before the measures are taken. So, we're going to make suggestions that allow more people to get into a job quickly. But we want to strongly warn against a type of waiver that means that there is a greater distance between Aetat and the Government, that the Government thus disclaims responsibility in an area where an actual now, from the Government side, clearly requires enhanced efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e485	The Council of State says reward, freer position for Aetat, more responsibility, Aetat is to be cultivated, other qualified persons are to be let go – all this indicates that the Government wants to turn the money bag back to Aetat and make it a narrower establishment, which should only be responsible for certain groups: the weakest, disabled and immigrants. I guess there's no doubt that that's what we heard here today. Although the Council of State is now saying that we should also communicate, it's clear that here the Right is going to implement what they've always dreamed about, to slim down and narrow down Aetat. The working party strongly disagrees with that. We're afraid that this will be groups falling between two chairs. It will again cause more people to become disapproved, more people to become unemployed. Norway lacks labour and the Government will take in unskilled labour from outside the EEA territory. They also need Norwegian training and learning about Norwegian society, and they need work training. They are far from ready to enter the Norwegian workplaces when they come to the country. So why don't you make sure that the 25 000 long-term unemployed who are in this country get to work first? Among these long-term unemployed, there are also quite a number of immigrants who are already here in the country, who today live on social assistance, who want to make their own money and get out of that system. It will, of course, require an effort, not least in Aetat, and it will cost money. But I want to claim – and I don't think anyone dare deny it – that this is economically profitable for society as a whole and in the long run. And then it won't be as the representative Apelthun Seele said in his speech on the previous case, that there is a need for less resources in Aetat when we have low leave. There is a greater need for follow-up of each individual unemployed person at a time of high demand for labour than at a time of recession. And many people need much more than a course to get into work. The situation in Aetat now requires the offices to re-prioritise the tasks, because now all resources are to be invested in providing re-routing clients with their money – and that is right. However, it is also totally unacceptable to down-prioritize the dissemination work. It's probably going to make fewer of those we want to get into work come into work. It's time- and resource-consuming to prevent disability and get people to work. Everyone waiting for re-entry needs individual assistance, and there are no universal solutions. That is why Aetate must be strengthened and not slimmed down. Aetate must now have peace and not new changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e498	Over the five years I have been responsible for this policy area, SV has been fighting a pretty tough fight against bureaucracy in the department and in the Directorate of Labour, precisely to offer users the quality they need. We have not prevented you from using private providers when it has been best. On the contrary, at the latest in our battle we fought a tough fight for user-driven offers where untapped unemployed sails on their own premises would gain a boost in competence, start their own businesses – stand up. Here's a lot of ways to do it, we don't disagree. But we're fully aware of the perspective that the Council of State is now drawing up, that more and more people are going to go into the result units that, individually and bit by bit, are kind of going to have their own goals, and that are going to be rewarded out of some kind of taximeter system. One has to focus on the most important thing: how to succeed in the real way and in the long term, so that you don't get more people who are called swinging door patients in health care. I believe that Aetat – and this is not their fault – has for many years been given political signals and political support for precisely that policy: empowerment in the shortest possible time, and as soon as possible into some random job, that is the best. We need to have a long-term perspective that people get sufficient skills and knowledge so that they can be safe in a job. SV is going to give full support to such a policy, but we are not going to give support for a policy that breaks Aeta's tasks into small pieces, where it is not possible to cooperate across borders. We need to focus on the social responsibility that Aetat should have, not on some kind of budget line. Basically, we are now talking about the most important measure, which the majority have said should be poverty reduction. The majority have voted down, so to speak, all the SV's proposals when it's about providing financial benefits to people who have difficulty, in order to make them feel better. The answer has been: no, they're going to work. But then we all have to do a completely different job in this area. This is about tailoring, customization, and long-term, holistic perspectives, and then you have to talk about the employees, because they have competence, they have competence, and they need continuity. This is about ‘one to one’ and follow-up not only in a build-up phase, but perhaps also when one has come to work. It's not that the work force has open arms and is willing to accept all those who now need Aetat's help. This is a long-term work, and here we need more and no less resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e505	First, to the representative eye. It's a little surprising for me to hear that you claim that the Right now will narrow down Aeta's business. The reality is that it was the Workers' Party that narrowed down Aeta's business last year, and we're dealing with that reality. I can only tell you that had Aetat Business existed today, I had not suggested it closed. But it's the Stortinge that's decided it. We do not want to narrow down Aetat, but we want Aetat to have a clearer mandate and, within the framework of that mandate, to develop into an exciting player. Let me also clarify: I did not say that Aetat should be released, and that others should be released. I said we also have to consider that question in the longer term. Today, we need to find solutions for Aetate that do not bind us up in relation to other possible longer-term solutions in the case of several actors, precisely in order to avoid the need for Aetate to change over and over again. To the representative, Andersen. I would like Andersen's representative to hear what I said. I said that a greater part of the Aetat business should be financed through qualification grants differentiated according to the needs of the individual job seekers. I can't believe that this means that you have to focus a lot on measurement. This means that you have a demanding person, you have more money at your disposal than if you have a less demanding person. In this context, I would also like to say that in the new funding system, we should stop distinguishing between so-called ordinary labour market measures and special labour market measures. Almost all jobseekers who need qualification assistance today are actually special jobseekers, and then we'll deal with it this way. And what we want is a more flexible, comprehensive funding system that makes the establishment's operations reflect how much qualification it actually does. Finally, getting something done with Aetat is something that is urgent. We all agree that, in the longer term, coordination and pooling of services in employment, social security and social services must be done, but it takes time. The situation in Aetat is so precarious that we have to do something about the way it is organized and funded, quickly if we're to avoid that in connection with the intention agreement and a future organisation of work, social security and social services we start off with a broken-down piece of work, to say it like that. That's why we're giving the work on new Aetat top priority in the ministry, and for the same reason, we've given the management of Aetat a very short period of time to get the reorganization going properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e518	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e532	The rapporteur is Mr Alstad, whom the President cannot see in the Chamber for the time being. The President will propose that we go further on the list of speakers and perhaps give Alstad the floor when he comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e535	The proposal from Steinar Bastesen we see in SV is very timely and good. This, with national ownership over some important natural resources, seems to us to be another priority for the national Parliament. If we go back many years, national ownership of natural resources was a central issue, going back as far as before World War I. What we are experiencing today along the sea is that a good part of the natural resources are at risk of being bought - some are already bought - by foreign owners. So you could say that the entry of non-resident owners can be a significant advantage, because you get capital, skills, etc. But the big problem today is that foreign owners will then have a great deal of control over how to organise different processing facilities, and not least the foreign owners who get, or take, the large part of the profits you can expect from these natural resources. Last night, I had a meeting with a municipality in the South Trøndelag that has spent a lot of millions. In addition, they have received money from the SND and other actors to build an infrastructure for the breeding industry. Then it happens that the state sells itself out to a Dutch company, which takes over this. And what is the result, five years after significant investments have been made? Well, the result is that the company is now structuralising, in the sense that it is laying down all the jobs and moving them elsewhere, with the reason that the economy is demanding for the time being, and therefore a number of new steps need to be taken. I believe that the proposal from Bastesen must be thoroughly returned to Stortinget. I agree with the rest of the committee that this is such a big case that we could not take it to reality here and now, but I would ask the Council of State that this matter be given high priority in the Government, and that when you have finished that work, you come back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e549	It may be unusual in Stortinget that things were moving fast, but I felt it was a period here! So there is a Document No. Eight proposals to ask the Government to make proposals to the Storting so that natural resources remain under national control and ownership. I guess there's no one in my party that really disagrees. The intentions behind the proposal we see, as indicated in the vote, the need to go further. There is a review in the setting of how ‘standa’ is for different natural resources, and a letter from the Ministry of Fisheries is attached that goes further through it. I think that's now the basis for asking to get a closer look at this. We get our own message that goes on state ownership, but it won't just as much cover up what's behind the proposal promoted by the Bastisen. That is why we have also received a majority and a minority in the Committee. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre – which is likely to become a minority in the Stortinget – ask, as indicated in the setting, that an appropriate briefing be given to the Stortinge on how the State should manage the ownership of natural resources, including food resources, as well as on the allocation of Norwegian and foreign ownership structures in relation to important natural resources. Now the representative Ryan was in on an example that I think is very good, from Osen. It shows how we can get out of the wrong way about how our natural resources are managed, by municipalities using significant public resources, building up and facilitating their use of land to create values in this country, and then experiencing that the values and jobs will only be moved out once they have been built up and put in place. It should not be an example of follow-up for other municipalities. We can, among other things: have problems with municipalities becoming more restrictive in using land for that kind of value creation, because it is seen that the value creation disappears abroad – the value creation that should at least have remained national, perhaps primarily local, so that you can benefit from the jobs and the value creation that takes place there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e560	I also share the view expressed both by Ryan and by Alstad that there is an important document presented here by Mr Bastisen. But like what Ryan said, it is clear that this is such a big and comprehensive case that it should be dealt with thoroughly through a Document No. Eight proposals are going to be hard. That's why there's a co-consistent committee that wants this to come back to Stortinget in some form, so that we get a thorough document from the Government – a message, or in another particular way – where one sees the whole thing with the right to natural resources and ownership at all. That's why I don't really want to go into this matter right now, but just ask it to be called the plurality of the committee – which is not a plurality in the Chamber, to say the same – whether they can consider turning I into a transmission proposal, because the comment on what is a plurality in the Chamber, to the extent that it says the same, and it's perhaps a little silly that it is then discredited by a decree of the Government. I understand that the Government will come back to this case, and that it might make sense for us to turn this into a transmission proposal, because the whole room – at least the whole committee – agrees that we want this to go back, we want this to be evaluated, because these are big and important issues. So I ask the majority in the committee to consider whether to turn this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e567	Document No 8:5 from the representative Bastesen on the control and ownership of the natural resources in Norway is a comprehensive proposal and see the search light on many problem settings. One side of the issue is that authorities in a number of areas operate with resource management, environmental management and sectoral policies – for the benefit of the country. This administration shall be independent of the State or private ownership of different companies. For example, fishing and aquaculture: limits are set on how much one company can own of the combined concession volume. These limits apply to both Norwegian and foreign companies. When it comes to fishing, we have the participation law and the raw fish law, which guarantees Norwegian fishermen control over Norwegian resources. In the Sem-Kärring, it's settled that these two laws should stand firm. At the same time, we know that the state owns or has ownership shares in many different companies based on different Norwegian natural resources. The administration of these owners gives us a good opportunity to discuss later in the spring when the Government has provided a big message about state ownership. The state ownership of Norwegian business is extensive. In many cases, conflicts may arise between the role of the State owner and its role as supervisory authority, especially if these roles are in the same department. In order to avoid such role conflicts, the Government is working to bring together the state ownership in one department. Cooperation management is in favour of the country clearing up its ownership of the business sector and defining what it wants with ownership in each case. The State's future ownership must be limited to companies of an administrative nature and companies in which ownership has a clear political foundation. Such a rationale for direct public ownership could be to solve the market's tasks, or it could not be resolved, for example. in the case of infrastructure, management of key common values and research and development efforts. In many cases, the Community's interests can be equally assured or improved through the design of legislation, framework conditions and the exercise of supervisory powers. For the purposes of this Document, the following definitions shall apply: The 8 proposal is the relatively co-ordinated comments in the vote. As the representative of Lodve Solholm mentioned, splits in relation to the proposal for Decision I, and that is because the Central Party, the Labour Party and SV have multiples in the committee with the leader's double voice, and therefore the Roman Numeration, while the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left will normally have multiples in the Chamber. I see that we are some of the people who intend to do this, and I support the representative, Lodve Solholm, in urging the Labour Party to make proposals for Decision I, as we are some about the content and the issue. However, the majority in the Committee have referred this to the State ownership message announced in April 2002. We don't want this to happen, because if one were to implement all of these pages, it would mean a delay of that. I think it's important that it comes, so that we get started, and that the government comes back to this both when it comes to natural resources and food resources, so that the Storing can be informed about these important issues in its own right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e582	Like the previous speakers in this case, I also think this is an interesting matter where it is important to have the objectives in order and in place, but where there are no simple ways to achieve the goals that I think we all agree on and will try to achieve. There are several facets in the content of Document No. The 8th proposal, which goes on food resources, but also in the broadest sense, natural resources. We have natural resources, we have food resources in the sea and on land. Then there will be a set of goals and ways to achieve goals that will be almost impossible to combine in a regulatory framework, which is called for and to be put in place. I don't think, for example, that a natural resource such as mining could have had the success it has had at national level if it hadn't been for international companies that have found the way to be able to invest in Norway. We see that Norwegian companies have significantly participated in and developed the fishing industry in other countries. In the marine sector, we now see Norwegian companies as locomotive for development in Scotland, Chile, Ireland, the Faeroe Islands, etc. Much of what we're talking about are international industries, and that makes us part of an international interaction, also through an international law, which we have to take the consequences of. But it does not reduce the importance of the proposal that has been promoted. What I think is important to get in place are international traffic rules that have to be able to tell a little bit about driving rules, at least for what goes on in the wild fish population, which without comparison with anything else is most threatened. The international traffic rules are indeed poor in this respect. Then it will also be difficult if we think that through a national law we can bind at all ends of a population that, after all, crosses the national borders, regardless of what we had to find out about traffic lights here in the Stortinget. We have also seen that the Stortinget without any special blinking thought it was a good idea that our own majority-owned company, Norsk Hydro, sold what was the locomotive, Hydro Seafood, out of the country and over to foreign hands. We see what kind of instruments we have to control this development, when we're actually set to decide on these. So that's what the representative Solholm and the representative Molvær Grimstad have taken up that goes on the proposal as such. With regard to the intention of what these representatives referred to, a majority in the Chamber is in full agreement with the manufacture. The complexity is that the majority of the Committee says that in assessing what has been promoted in I, it should be seen in the context of the Government notifying its own notification of state ownership in April 2002. I just think that practical is impossible to do in this short period of time. In reality, we agree, and the members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party say in the vote: ‘In the case of natural resources, including food resources, these members expect the Government to provide adequate information on the issue’.» I have understood that this is something that the Minister of Fisheries is also very much concerned about. That is why I agree with the request to convert the I-proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e600	It's true, as other speakers have said, that there is an important question that has been raised here. I think it is commendable that the Coastal Party has addressed that kind of issue in Stortinget. It has given the Economic and Social Committee the opportunity for a debate on the issues, which have to be recognised as complex, from the various points of view. But there is one thing that is common to the management of natural resources, and it is that historically we have been quite good in Norway to ensure both the rational and long-term management of ownership of natural resources. Norway is a natural resource country, and it has not been given that a country with as overwhelming a degree of natural resources as Norway has can retain its ownership and thus also have some control over the exercise and management of natural resources. We've had a conscious relationship with that, and we've had a conscious relationship with the ownership of the resources. I think that has served Norwegian society in the long term. I think it has served the Norwegian community that we established a right of return and a state right of pre-emption for hydroelectric power plants in 1917. I think it is appropriate for the Norwegian community that we have the ownership of the petroleum resources seams if we grant concessions of a certain duration, both to Norwegian and international companies. Thus, we have also had the opportunity to secure the basic interest rate that should apply to the Norwegian society based on oil and gas resources. I think it's a good thing that we have a housing and business obligation related to the long-term management of food resources, and I think it's a good thing that you have a law of participation that ensures that there's a fishing fleet in Norway. What we are experiencing today, with some of the parties involved in the committee, is that part of these arrangements are under pressure. They are under pressure either because of the political discussion in Norway or because they are under pressure from abroad, in particular from ESA and the EEA bodies. We are therefore facing a discussion on how ownership of power rights, fish, oil and gas should be ensured over a long period of time. It is an important debate. I am pleased that the debate has been taken up. I agree that more time is needed in connection with such a debate, and that it may be appropriate to get a separate case on it to the Stortinget at a later stage. The ownership committee will address some of the issues, but they will not go deep into what is at the core, namely the relationship with the natural resources and ownership of the natural resources as such. So the ownership selection won't be comprehensive in that way. However, on the basis of the positive signal that has now come from some of the other parties on the importance of a separate case and a separate debate on these issues, the majority is prepared to turn their proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e613	I am pleased that this comprehensive case has received such consideration and focus as it has received from the Committee. In areas by region, Norwegian policy authorities have opened up foreign acquisitions of Norwegian enterprises and natural resources. The most extensive restrictions on the ability of Norwegian authorities to ensure national ownership have been made in the context of the adaptation to the EEA Agreement. This is confirmed by the Ministry of Fisheries letter to the Norwegian Food Committee on the matter. The EEA does not include the Common Fisheries Policy of the EU. The EEA Agreement provides for derogations for the ownership of Norwegian fishing vessels in relation to the general provisions on the right of establishment and the free movement of capital applicable in the EEA territory. Nevertheless, it is now apparent that the EEA adaptation is also being tested in the fisheries sector. This creates a completely new and dramatic situation for Norway, as the fishing industry is based on renewable resources that could form an increasingly important part of the income base for the entire population of Norway and provide a basis for employment in the districts especially in the future. In the preparation of the compensation agreement with the EU in the case of eastward enlargement, the EU team has expressed a desire to amend or abolish the Norwegian participant law. This law guarantees local, Norwegian ownership of the fishing fleet and thereby also to fleet fishing quotas. The ESA Court of Justice has stated that it considers the condition of local connection in the Breeding Act to be contrary to the EEA Agreement. This contests the Norwegian authorities. Aquaculture is also part of the common fisheries policy of the EU. Any EU requirement to liquidate the provision on local connection in the Breeding Act should be met with a sauna Norwegian veto. ESA has not yet commented on the Law of the Sea, which is a contentious matter. Here the Norwegian authorities should highlight a clear position against ESA interference. In addition to the laws in the committee setting, the Coastal Party will refer in particular to the problems of national ownership in relation to the Mineral Law and the Water Resource Act. In order to ensure local, regional and national ownership of hydropower, the right of return must be maintained. It is a uniquely renewable non-polluting resource that Norway has in large quantities, as the representative Arnstad pointed out instead. The purpose of ensuring national control of our rich natural resources is that the proceeds from these resources will benefit us and our descendants. However, in order to regain such control, Norway has to notify itself out of the EEA and return to the old trade agreement with the EU. We will therefore propose that the Government provide an overview of what we can achieve both within the EEA and after a possible EEA withdrawal of ownership of Norwegian natural resources. We will further clarify that the Government should not confine itself to briefing on state ownership, but also the possibility of maintaining county, municipal and private Norwegian ownership of natural resources and key companies. I understand that the majority wants this as a transmission proposal, and I agree with that in itself, because this is a comprehensive case that needs more thorough consideration in the future. So I also support making this a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e634	The proposal by the big business representative Bastesen that the control and ownership of natural resources can remain in Norwegian hands is formulated as a very comprehensive question, as many have said today. There are many interesting issues raised by the fact that it embraces as far as it does. I have listened to the debate with great interest, and I agree that national control of natural resources is strong in Norway, and that is how we want it to remain. The issues raised are complex, and they are not fully elucidated on this occasion, and I am pleased that everyone seems to agree that the proposal before us is to be a transmission proposal. I can assure you that the Government will clearly come back to Stortinget with several issues, as the committee assumes in the vote. I want to find out how we can best address both the overall situation and at the same time address the sector issue in the way we report back to the Stortinget. But I will follow up on the comments and intentions of the Storting and the Committee. In the letter that I sent to the Committee on 25 January, which is attached to the vote, I also mentioned fisheries and aquaculture as well as agricultural properties, petroleum resources, waterfall rights, mineral resources, genetic resources, etc. It only underlines the extent and complexity of the issue raised in Document No. The 8th proposal. It would, of course, lead too far if I were to address the different types of natural resources today, explaining the reasons for and against the need for national control and ownership in each area. However, I would like to use this opportunity to come back to the situation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector in terms of national control and ownership, as well as to say something about the genetic resource problem. Let me first refer to the Sem declaration, where it is related by the Government to the farming industry, among others. is said that local ownership must be given priority. We stand by that, and this is a problem I will come back to Stortinget when the Breeding Act will be reviewed in the Ministry of Fisheries and any need for change is clarified. The Sem Declaration also states that the design of the tax system has a significant impact on the development of private ownership. The taxes on wealth and the double taxation of dividends result in private Norwegian owners being discriminated against in relation to foreign and public owners, which means that private Norwegian ownership is being distorted. The government will reverse these developments and ensure that Norwegian private owners have competitive tax conditions, and this clearly also affects the current situation. Furthermore, it is a key challenge for us to strengthen the access to capital of Norwegian enterprises and innovation projects. Increased access to risk capital and a better functioning capital market are essential for Norwegian business and Norwegian owners to be able to exploit new ideas and business opportunities related to the exploitation of natural resources. The government will therefore facilitate new start-ups and greater private ownership in the business community, and has also announced, as it says, a big deal in April this year about state ownership. When discussing this with national and foreign ownership, it is important to consider the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement provides clear guidance on how to design and enforce Norwegian legislation with a view to the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons. In this context, non-discrimination and equal treatment are required for actors in the EEA area. There are also conditions we need to take into account in the design of policies relating to the exploitation of ownership of natural resources. Raising new marine species and new forms of production are examples of widespread untapped opportunities available in the aquaculture industry. Also within salmon and trout farming there are still large potentials for growth. The government will therefore strengthen the importance of the aquaculture industry for districts and facilitate continued growth. Concessions are therefore an important instrument in the development of the aquaculture industry, in terms of salmon and trout, and as I mentioned in the introduction, the Government has said that local ownership must be given priority. Several speakers have mentioned ESA today, and the Stortinget is aware that, in some cases, the ESA has recently raised concerns about Norway’s adaptation to the EEA Agreement. I note that there is a development in the understanding of the agreement that means that new issues need to be addressed. An example is the ESA’s reasoned opinion of 15 November last year on the condition of local ownership when granting concessions to salmon and trout. That matter is being dealt with in the department, and I hope we can award the 40 concessions that the Stortinget has cleared, in June this year, and that the matter with ESA will then be settled. ESA concludes in its opinions that the conditions are contrary to the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the right of establishment and the free movement of capital. We're then of a different opinion. This needs to be clarified, and that goes right into the issues in the case we are dealing with today. The government is in line with the ESA’s reasoned opinion and is now engaged in informal dialogue with ESA to see if it is possible to reach a solution that will address Norway’s need for an allocation policy that strengthens local business and ownership. With regard to the possibility of introducing new national ownership requirements, this could be problematic in a number of areas in relation to the EEA Agreement. Although the management of natural resources has been initially added to national authorities, the agreement, as mentioned at the outset, involves non-discrimination requirements, etc. In general, this means that once a private resource is allowed to be used, EEA citizens cannot be discriminated against unless they are located in areas such as: the fisheries sector, where derogations have been made. When we talk about national control and ownership of natural resources, I also want to mention another type of natural resource that the representative Bastisen has mentioned in the explanatory statement for his proposal, namely genetic resources. The genetic resources are important resources in many relationships, including in food production. Under Norwegian law, there are no general rules on ownership or the right to dispose of genetic resources as such. However, there are commitments undertaken by Norway internationally. The UN Convention on Biological Diversity aims to preserve biodiversity and ensure the sustainable use of individual components of diversity. Furthermore, the Convention shall ensure access to genetic resources and a fair distribution of the dividends resulting from commercial or other exploitation of the genetic resources. The Biodiversity Convention, on the one hand, states have sovereign rights over their natural resources and the power to determine access to genetic resources lies with national governments and is governed by national law. On the other hand, the Convention requires the Parties to facilitate access by other Parties to genetic resources for environmentally sound use, and not impose restrictions that are contrary to the objectives of the Convention. This is an example of the fact that the issues raised by the representative Bastes are also diverse and problematic in an international context. Norway has worked internationally in different forums for a genetic resource policy to ensure continued good general access to genetic resources for societal purposes. It may also be in Norwegian interest. As far as genetic resources are concerned, I would like to mention the Biomultiplicity Law Committee, which was set up at kgl. Resolution of 20 April last year. The committee’s mandate includes: that the objective of regulating genetic resources must be: ensuring the availability of own genetic resources to facilitate the exchange of resources between countries to prevent biodiversity from being reduced so as to ensure a fair distribution of benefits from the use of genetic resources The mandate shall read as follows: ‘It is important that regulation strike a balance between the interest in having national control over the extraction of biological resources and the interest in not hindering national and international research and development, including industrial research and development... Any obstacles in this way resulting from the regulation shall be investigated.’;» The committee shall submit its proposals by 1 October 2003, and that will be an opportunity to report to the Stortinget, as requested. To a large extent, resistance to foreign ownership has been particularly linked to the fisheries and aquaculture sector, and this is due to the fear of coastal depopulation. As far as I know, we don't have any evidence to claim that any increase in foreign ownership actually produces such effects, but we're holding on to the fact that whatever today, we have rules that make foreign companies only own up to 40 pst. by fishing vessels and fishing establishments owned by fishing vessels. As regards the fisheries sector, I would also like to mention the Ownership Committee, which was appointed at kgl. Resolution of 8 June last year. The sample will also address to some extent issues related to foreign ownership. It shall submit its recommendation on 1 June of this year, and it will also be one of the documents that will provide us with the basis for reporting back, in line with what the Stortinget and the Committee request. It is also true that in several fields we are dealing with issues that can be said to relate to foreign ownership of natural resources within the international framework, such as: the EEA Agreement and the Biodiversity Convention. My conclusion in the light of what is in the vote and what has been said here in the Chamber is that there will be several occasions for the Government to come back to the Storing and report on and discuss issues related to the individual sectors. And then we're going to evaluate how we're going to be able to raise the issues together and see the overall context. But I will promise to follow up on the intentions that are both set down in the setting and that have been expressed in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e706	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e722	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e730	It is to be voted on on on today's map. To Case No 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e745	During the debate, you are converted into a transmission proposal and the introduction is replaced by ‘Recommendation to the Government’, etc. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is appropriate for the Government to provide information to the Storting on how the State should manage ownership of natural resources, including food resources — as well as an allocation of Norwegian and foreign ownership structures.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08.ana.ud2419e788	There is no record.
