ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e40	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson Councillor Einar Steensnässtatsråde Erna Solberg The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e59	I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Power prices now seem to reach new heights this winter. During Question Time on 16 October, the Council of State said the following: ‘But from our point of view, we do not see that the situation is such that we should move towards the high increases that are indicated, for example. 30 pst.’ and ‘The government does not propose that we have a significant increase in electricity prices.’ This comes in a strange light when we see today that Statnett is worried and warns against the power situation, and when we now see that the power prices do not rise 30 pst., but 80 and up to 100 pst., which means thousands of dollars in increased costs for many people. Unfortunately, this does not seem to worry the Council of State. It worries us. My question is: does the Council of State not have a good enough overview of the situation, or is it such that the Council of State believes that this is nothing to worry about?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e77	When I briefed the Storting in an oral Question Time on 16 October, the situation was based on available information from Norway's Vasstraks- und Energiedirektorat, as described. We did not then see that we would have a future development that would provide significantly higher prices. That's right. But I also said in the same post that we still have to "calculate some increase in power prices". This increase has been significantly higher than expected, and it is simply because we have had an unusual harvest. Since the measurements in NVE started in 1931, for these weeks in the harvest months, we have never experienced as little reluctance as we have done this autumn. It creates an extraordinary situation, especially because it is also combined with an early winter. The situation is worrying. It is now essential to reduce consumption. But when Sylvia Brustad asks if I do not have control of the situation, I would like to remind both Stortinget and the representative Brustad that the Norwegian energy supply is extremely dependent on the rainfall. When the precipitation fails, it could lead to the kind of increase in the electricity price that we have experienced this year. What we also see, however, is that the power market is working. Despite the fact that we've had low temperatures in the last few weeks, the actual consumption instead of having risen has decreased. Thus, although it has been a cold winter, increased electricity prices have given the necessary signal to the market and to consumers, so that we have reduced consumption. It is very important that, in the future, we have a further reduction in the electricity price, so that this can benefit both private households and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e88	It is strange, if the Council of State is concerned that electricity prices are going to fall, which is something new in this context, that the Council of State is not taking any initiative to contribute to it. I want to remind you that the last Bondevik government actually went off because it wouldn't accept the power that was offered, to say it that way. It is also the case that the Government has just made a compromise with the Progress Party, which means cut-off in research at gas power plants with CO2 management. The government is now spending less money on bioenergy, on wind, etc. than it could have got if it had cooperated with us. And I don't see any initiative from the government or the government to allow people to add up to a smarter consumption that could lead to lower electricity billing. In other words, what the government is now doing does not lead to lower electricity prices, but it is likely to lead to higher electricity prices. Then it's weird to stand here and say that one will have lower power prices, when one actually doesn't take the initiative to do something that can contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e97	Now I think the representative Brustad combines a number of relationships. She has submitted a Document No. 8-proposals that primarily focus on power consumption and not on energy consumption. I am in favour of that proposal and the Stortinget will be informed of it. But it has nothing to do with energy supply, it has to do with power consumption. There's a big difference. And compared to having a better energy supply, a kWh wouldn't have been produced with a working party government, because these are long-term investments for which we need a significant planning. These initiatives are under way by the Government. Nor is it right, as the representative Brustad says, that the Government does not focus on new renewable energy sources. In fact, I have fought hard to keep up the level to which Stortinget has also joined, i.e. approximately. DKK 0.5 billion per year. years to Enova for new renewable energy sources. But none of this can affect the current situation. Here we have to trust that the market will give the necessary signals to consumers. High prices will lead to lower consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e106	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e109	On 16 October this year I asked questions about the supply situation and price in the spontaneous question. On 17 October I followed up with a written question to the Council of State. And on October 23rd, I, together with Inger Enger, promoted a private proposal to regulate the export of force. At all these initiatives, the Council of State has replied: the market is functioning, there is absolutely no reason to do anything. As late as October it was a record export. Exports increased by 74 pst. compared to the same month of the previous year, and imports decreased by 50 pst. This shows that the market is not functioning at all. It shows that we are now getting into a situation of scarcity, and the Council of State is going out today and encourages people to turn off the light and save on the current and rather guys with wood. Does the Council of State still believe that there is no reason at all to do any of the world's things to try to balance the energy market?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e118	I can't take responsibility for the headlines in the newspaper. They make themselves, as they know them, and I think the representative of Enoxen is familiar with that. But I agree with the statements given to the evening post today, namely that it is important in this situation that a person reduces the consumption. By appealing to good and reasonable energy savings, both in private households and in industry, one can help to achieve a better balance between supply and demand, which in turn will result in prices becoming more normal, as we want. It's nothing new that we get high prices between them. It is an important signal for consumers to assess their own energy consumption. Then Enoksen has submitted a proposal to regulate the Norwegian magazines. I have in my own written mail replied to the Enoxen – he is familiar with that, hopefully. But briefly, such a proposal will result in less hydropower production and higher prices, that is, the opposite of what Enoxen wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e125	Rolf Terje Klungland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e129	Let me start by saying that what the Council of State says about what the Workers' Party has done, would have done and will do, is wrong. On 30 November, however, the newspaper Nordlys had a notice that Finnfjord Melting Plant shuts down the production to sell the power. "This situation, as bad as it sounds, strengthens us," says the managing director of the melting plant. However, the main concern for management is the price of the crown. «We see that the whole coast suffers from the price of the crown,» says the director. The Workers' Party cannot accept a policy that leads to a game between workplaces and a balance of power and a safe supply to industry. This is a result of the government's misguided energy and industrial policy. [[President clubs]] What will the Council of State do to avoid workers becoming a caste in relation to the government's faulty energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e136	If there is a faulty energy policy in this, I think a number of workers' party governments should be held responsible, just as now the representative Klungland is trying to put me in charge of this. The fact is that the investment horizon for the power market is such that if we had a lighter energy supply, a better balance between supply and demand today, the decision should be made early in the 1990s, and perhaps even earlier. I am not going to be able to intervene, and the government also has no opportunity to intervene, vis-à-vis the business community, who wants another type of activity when the prices of electricity go up. I hope, as I said, that through the measures, both information, through prices, energy saving and alternative energy sources, we will be able to bring prices down to a more normal level. However, some direct action against business by regulating, whether in the case of magazine filling or in the case of the profile to be given, is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e143	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e146	It makes sense to save power, it's the government council and I've been thinking about it. But the measures, such as: The Council of State suggests, make me more concerned. Among other things, he says that one shall have four more wood, and one shall have four more oil. I doubt whether the Allergy Association agrees at first, and I doubt whether the second is consistent with the Government's environmental policy. In addition, I would like to point out what the Council of State says: the market is working. So that means that the energy companies should have empty warehouses more or less the whole way to have a high price. That's what one can include in what Steensnæs says. If not, he must say something offensive about regulating the water level in the warehouse. I also think that a depreciation of some other possibilities. We have the possibility of linking to two-price systems. We can make it profitable for consumers to save through a two-price system. [[The President clubs.]] Why does the Council of States not apply these instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e151	It makes sense in a situation where there is a shortage of energy in the market, to supplement it with other forms of energy, including refuelling, and to use the electric boilers and switch over to oil for a while. This government aims to reduce oil firing by 25 pst. This does not prevent us from supplementing the energy market with both oil and wood in a particularly tight situation. That makes sense, but it is not a permanent solution – I agree with the representative of Langeland. The top rice system has been evaluated four times throughout changing governments. A worker party government also presented an assessment that showed that this is not easy to manage, nor targeted. I accept all the good proposals that could lead to a more sensible use of energy, but so far the two-price system has not proved appropriate. Neither is it, as Langeland says, that there is between accepting empty magazines and regulating the magazines. The alternative is to have a sound energy policy that leads to a balance between consumption and demand on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e160	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e163	My question also goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Electricity prices to Norwegian consumers have now been completely eliminated by the shaft. In newspapers and other media we are told every day about new price increases that are going on. We are also told that more and more people are having problems paying the electricity bill. Some people even need to go to the social office to get help with this bill. At the same time, we know that the Norwegian state receives additional income as a result of this amounting to several billion kroner. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he is comfortable with a situation in which the Norwegian state – the richest state in the world – incurs extra billions at the same time as the people out there have to bleed like that just because of a faulty energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e168	It is important and necessary to balance energy consumption so that prices are also lowered. I am aware that a number of families will face a very difficult situation. Fortunately, electricity bills for this year are probably at the level of last year. But we're going into 2003, and if this situation continues, it's clear that high prices will be a significant problem for many families. It is therefore important to put in place measures to reduce consumption and thus create a better balance in the market. The grip one then has to take is not to reduce prices. It'll seem the opposite of it a desire. Reduced prices lead to increased demand in the market. I know that the Progress Party has great faith in market forces and in the liberalised power market, so I don't understand why they don't believe in regulation in this case. At least it is a historical experience that if a person lowers prices, for example. by lowering taxes or imposing a reduction in prices on electricity companies, this will lead to an increase in consumption. Then we don't achieve what we want, a better balance and more reasonable prices in the electricity market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e175	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The main reason for the sky-high current prices we now have is, of course, the lack of electricity in the market. And here both this government and previous governments have to take responsibility for not having built up more power generation. That's how the market works. With greater demand and lack of supply, prices are rising. It's as simple as that. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: is he not about to take the seriousness of the situation inwards and make sure that we get new power expansions, power expansions like real monks, so that we can get more power in the market, and hence lower electricity bill for most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e182	We have had a very low level of investment in Norwegian power supply in the last decade, and the representative, Mr. Waksdal, points to an important issue. Now there's actually reason to say that we might have gotten into a slightly different situation. We have to bet differently on this. We have to upgrade power plants, we have to make sure we get new power lines, new grids, better generators and better turbines, etc. At the same time, we must invest in energy saving and new renewable energy sources. We've had a lot of high power prices lately. This has at least led to one thing, namely that a number of plans are now being made for increased power generation. It seems that the period without the need for new capacity is about to pass, and that we can face a period of increased investment in the power supply. Appropriations for the remainder of the year in respect of the power supply [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e189	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e193	People want to save electricity. I got an e-mail this morning from a family in the West. You can save 40 pst. of the energy if you install the heat pump, they wrote. But it costs a lot, and the family would like to have some help from the public if it wanted them to do so. Then they ask if there's money. And where are they going to send the application? The Central Party has proposed 200 million. NOK extra to Enova, and I assume that it may be the right address to send such an application. But if many send such applications, there will be millions more. Does the Council of State think that there is enough money today, or can the Council of State imagine that at the turn of the year, when the budget is aged, it can be added extra money to Enova, as the situation has become?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e200	I agree with the representative that investment in heat pumps makes sense. We also see that public buildings and industry are reaching large-scale rates of heat pumps. This would also make sense in private households. And now, in fact, the prices of heat pumps have fallen, so this will be bill equivalent within a time horizon of four to five years. It's a significant improvement on what you saw earlier. I therefore believe that the correct information and guidance from the power company as well as from the authorities can help to stimulate an increased interest in the installation of heat pumps. I believe that this is an opportunity to do so without a massive support scheme for public budgets, because it is actually profitable to save through the installation of heat pumps.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e207	Øyvind Korsberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e210	A large part of the electricity bill for people is made up of grid rental. Also that part of the bill has become much more expensive in recent years. The government and the majority of this house have aimed at reducing household electricity consumption and have used sky-high taxes to achieve this objective. A short time ago, we were able to read in the paper that a power company punished those who used little electricity with even higher network rentals to compensate for the loss of income. What does the Council of State think of such a manifestly unfair practice, and what will the Council of State do, if any, to ensure that electricity customers are not hit in such a way, with even higher electricity bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e217	I don't know the special case mentioned here. However, with regard to the regulation of network rentals, I would like to point out that a separate procedure has been carried out by the NVE in charge of reviewing the accounts of the network companies in order to ensure that, in a monopoly situation, these do not charge too high prices. So it's a responsibility for public authorities to determine the network lease. Of course, we will not accept tariffs that penalise households unfairly because they use less power. But I am not directly aware of the case to which the representative of Korsberg now refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e222	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e225	My question goes to the Minister for Development. In the State budget, the Council of State was given the power to increase the aid budget and thus prioritize the world’s poor, for which SV is pleased. However, I believe that the Minister for Development will agree with me that the most important thing for developing countries in the long term is that they are given the opportunity to build their own viable business, and that perhaps the most important question is therefore what kind of opportunities they have for this. In Norway, we did this by protecting the construction of our own business, with concession laws, repatriation rights, etc. It must therefore be in agreement with the Minister for Development that, as she struggles through increased assistance, her colleague in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Jan Petersen, is moving in completely the opposite direction. It has become known through several leaks in the press that, in the context of the negotiations on the GATS agreement, Norway is calling on the developing countries to abolish such protection rights extensively. However, the exact requirements of Norway are exempt from public disclosure and the provisions to exempt those disclosures are also excluded from public disclosure. It will be very difficult to hold an open and democratic debate when there is such a level of secrecy. The question is what the Council of State will do to obtain transparency about Norway’s requirements in the GATS negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e234	There were many different issues in the representative for Lysbakken. Let me first say that it is not that the loss of protection is part of the GATS negotiations in the WTO context. In the context of the WTO, work is being done on the possibility of differentiation of legislation in several areas, including transitional arrangements for developing countries, with the possibility of protection, which will now be negotiated. With regard to the question directly from the representative related to the GATS negotiations, this is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to make two comments. The first is that in fact the Norwegian requirements towards developing countries have been very well received from many developing countries, not least because Norway also offers a framework for and wishes to strengthen its own capacity, its own ability to develop services in these different areas. It is a prerequisite for several developing countries to be able, if possible, to use market access internationally that they also have functioning services. On the other hand, as regards information, which is also the constitutional responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is a very comprehensive consultation mechanism in the WTO negotiation processes, where Norwegian civil organisations are very much involved, consulted and involved. It also applies to the various areas of negotiation, where there will be such consultations in the continuation of the negotiations. In relation directly to the negotiating positions, the various WTO countries – the parties – agree, according to WTO practices, that other countries should not make them public. But there will be information and consultations along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e243	It must be possible to get a clearer answer to my question about Council of State Frafjord Johnson's perception of the transparency of our demands in the GATS negotiations. When it is said that Norway’s requirements have been very well received in some developing countries, it is very difficult for the opposition to check this. It is also difficult for solidarity organisations to check, because the demands of Norway are not open and because there is secrecy around them. For example, the nation has discovered that Norway, at Telenor's invitation, was working for the liberalisation of the telecommunications sector in Bangladesh and that there was a need for liberalisation in the oil industry in Angola. Getting to the bottom of this and getting it open is a prerequisite for having just such a debate as the Council of State Frafjord Johnson pointed out. That is why I would like to repeat the question: will the Minister for Development work so that we can have a broader debate and increased transparency around Norway's positions in the GATS negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e252	The proposals themselves are exempt from disclosure under the agreement of the WTO negotiators themselves and under the arrangements set out in the negotiations. Norway cannot request exemptions and add up to a completely different race than other countries do. That means that we follow what is internationally agreed on. With regard to the details of the negotiation process, i.e. with the exception of the proposals that have been made, there is a good deal of information on the Internet pages of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will endeavour to involve the various organisations. There are several different selections composed of a very large number of organisations, which will be consulted and briefed along the way. When it comes to my own assessment, I think the representative is aware that the government is one, and that whatever constitutional responsibility it is not that governments have individual views on individual issues. [[The President clubs.]] But as a government council member, as part of a government college, I am also concerned that the various Norwegian organisations are getting information and being consulted along the way in the process. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e261	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ågot Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e265	Finally, it is to say that the organisations that the Minister of Development – as it actually goes through the world about being very competent – are totally dependent on being part of the team, those organisations feel that they cannot play that role, that they are kept out of the process. But now let it go. Today it is reported that 38 million Africans are threatened by a famine that is unprecedented in modern history. Petersen says that there are deeper and structural reasons for the food crisis, including the political choices made. Emergency aid must be accompanied by measures addressing the underlying causes, he says. There we are in fact at the GATS and WTO negotiations, because it is a fact that Norway sits on the rich side, that this is an agreement that will give more power to the rich and will increase hunger [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e272	Here I also feel that you mix the cards. It is not that a gigantic privatisation of the agricultural sector throughout Africa is part of the GATS negotiations. The GATS negotiations are primarily about transport and telecommunications, as well as the development of banking and insurance services, and there are opportunities for Norway to help build up these services in developing countries, as I also said in my previous response. Although this is not my constitutional responsibility – I have to repeat it again – I should nevertheless reply that as part of this Norwegian negotiating arrangement, it has been suggested that we should contribute to strengthening the developing countries' part of this and increase their ability to improve their services and services. As I said, many developing countries have responded very positively to the Norwegian negotiating arrangement. With regard to the structural causes, I would like to refer to my own field work in Tanzania, which clearly indicates that purely state-owned cooperative activities are not a guarantee for the development of the agricultural sector. Poor farmers were paid by the state in the 1970s.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e279	Governments choose even if they want to respond, and take the consequences of their answers. Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e284	The WTO negotiations are about far more than the GATS. In the current negotiations, trade in agricultural products, and thus trade in food, is also one of the main themes. I have understood that the Minister for Development is one of those who believe that trade in food should be liberalised. From a development perspective, in the opinion of the Centre Party, this is a short-circuit. The free trade in food does not work as long as the world is so unfair that Norwegian farmed salmon and Norwegian pigs can actually pay more for the food than the children in Bangladesh can. The production of food for the world market will also lead to the conversion of production from small units to large units. Peanuts are being hunted from the ground and become farm workers. The surplus is collected in few hands, and we know that most of these countries do not have distribution mechanisms. My question to the Council of State is therefore whether I am able to convince the Minister of Development that from a development point of view it is bad policy to liberalise trade in food.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e289	I think they can best answer the question asked by the representative is the developing countries themselves – their leaders and their grassroots. If there is something developing countries themselves report to me as a Minister for Development, they feel that the barriers to developing countries on the international market are so high that it is bloodyly unfair. The level of aggression is very high in this area, much higher than in a number of other fields. It will be a challenge, both for government and for growth in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. There is no doubt that there are two types of goods that most developing countries can produce. It's textiles, and it's agricultural products. Where have the customs walls been at the highest international level? Yes, it is in two areas, textiles and agricultural products. So in the areas that developing countries can produce and export, we have shut them out. Now the government has done something about it. As of 1 July, the Government, even with the support of the Centre Party, has removed all customs duties and all quotas on goods from the least developed countries. [[The President clubs.]] It is a major breakthrough, which also means that we are at the forefront internationally, and it has been noticed by the developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e296	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e299	I have to say I was very grateful for the answer the Council of State now gave to the representative Haga, and will follow up on asking whether it will now be the government's line in the future. Will the developing countries be taken seriously in terms of their desire and demands to liberalise trade in agricultural products? The government's position in the negotiations on agriculture now taking place in the WTO context will be the freest trade and fairest trade for agricultural products, as the developing countries wish, and not as you can sometimes see, for example. Does the Ministry of Agriculture consider that the aim is precisely to maintain support and protectionism in Norwegian agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e304	With the government's decision to abolish customs duties and quotas for the least developed countries, we have therefore joined the international front, along with some other countries. What we have also opened up in the international WTO negotiations is a possible commitment to this MUL decision, so that it cannot change with weather and wind, provided that other countries participate in doing the same. In the case of other developing countries, i.e. middle-income countries, we have also said in the Sem Declaration and in the WTO negotiations that we are also open to increasing market access for these. This is also the basis for the WTO negotiations. It is the Storting that, through the treatment of the WTO statement, has given the Government its negotiating mandate, and that is what we are following. That mandate also includes having an agricultural policy in this country, and that it should not be a freest trade in agricultural products, which is outlined here by the Progress Party representative, but that we should work for increased market access in line with the developing countries themselves and in the interests of the developing countries. The representative can rely on the Government to do so, in line with the Stortingen negotiating mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e311	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e314	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. We are given a daily example of how the poor community economy affects individuals. Municipalities will be forced to cancel home assistants, activists and school assistants. Local provision will be removed. It's for kids who need follow-up, but don't get it, because the school assistant gets away. It's for the elderly who've had a long life. They are no longer allowed to see their help at home; the offer is taken from them. Yesterday we read in Dagbladet about the mentally retarded Ola Kleiven. Skun municipality lacks money. Therefore, the day centre must be laid down. Ola Kleiven is left to his retired parents. My question to Councillor Solberg is therefore: How can the Government defend the fact that those who need the most help are the hardest to frame around the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e323	The situation in the Norwegian municipal economy is difficult. However, there are also examples of municipalities that are able to cope with the transition, low-income municipalities that have been less expansive than other municipalities, which have managed to maintain a good service offer and which have put in place major reorganisation and conversion measures to achieve it. In fact, it is also important to talk about those lighting points, so that there is no picture that everything is completely black in the municipal sector. There is no doubt that the poorer local economy in some municipalities will affect users of important services. But I would like to stress that it is not just the arrangement that the Government has put up with, because it is not that there would not be any tightening of the local economy with the arrangements that the Workers' Party has set up, but it is spoken as if it would not have been. In fact, what the local government sector says it's missing is NOK 6 billion. The working party delivers about half of it. That's why it's actually going to be a little humiliating to the fact that that kind of example we would have in many municipalities also with the scheme that the Workers' Party has presented. I hope that we get the momentum of the really long-term modernisation work, where there is a lot to pick up in terms of providing better quality of services through closer intermunicipal cooperation and more community mergers, because we see that there are resources here that can be used in a better way, to strengthen services instead of administration. I hope that the Stortinget also now sees that the time is ripe for us in all political parties to contribute to local processes that make it possible to remove barriers to the proper use of resources today. It's one of the ways to get on with it and get a better and healthier community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e333	The government is running a policy that frames unfairly. Older and disabled people get more expensive medicine, the municipalities are in trouble. In particular, older people become frames. A recent study shows that it has to be cut down on supply in the municipalities across our country. In Ullensaker, the provision of activities for the elderly is reduced; in Ringerijke, Larvik and Kragerø, sick home places are removed. Many older people become unsafe for the provision of care. In September of this year, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs will answer the following questions as to whether there was more to be done in the municipalities: ‘I disagree that there is no more to pick up. There is not a single municipality in this country where it can no longer be cut." Does the State Council of Solberg still think that there is more to get in the municipalities? And in which area will it be cut for years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e345	I believe that there is not one municipality in Norway that is fully efficient, modern and relocated, as they can be if they are now good at looking at all the opportunities to use all the resources better. There are many municipalities that have done a lot, as I said in my previous answer, but there are actually many municipalities that have done very little conversion work, because they, among other things, have done. has gone blind cut in the form of – let's say – 2 pst. Cut above the line, or 5 pst. cut over the line, instead of going into and making priority choices, make sure to enter into good processes of inter-municipal cooperation and make sure to slim down their organisational apparatus. I still believe that there are no municipalities today that are the perfect municipality in modern and relocated society. At the same time, I do not suggest that there are any changes at present affecting public services. But I do not understand that the representative Reidar Sandal can stand upright with his municipal arrangement and pretend that it is only due to the government's arrangements. I believe that the Labour Party itself must see that they are also responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e352	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e355	It's not just old and sick who have to tolerate the economy axis of the Government and the Advance Party. So must many children and young people. One of the main issues we've been dealing with in SV is the school. Now the worse country gets around. The right recipe at a better school has been less money. It happens in many municipalities now. And then what happens? Well, then many branch schools are laid down. 40 pst. of the Norwegian schools are branch schools and few schools. It would have been interesting to hear from the government soon about what kind of plan the government has with this, because it seems like you're now going to use the local economy to force a large-scale closure of Norwegian cross-border schools, where kids are to be forced to drive miles every day. Engerdal municipality in Hedmark is an example of this. [[President clubs]] The community economy where they are now forced to set up two primary schools, so that young people aged five and a half get up to four miles of schoolway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e362	The government has set up a local economy and a budget to take account of the size of the public sector that requires a tight financial policy to reduce the competitiveness of competitive business over the years to come. In fact, there is a need to tighten up some of the public services. That was the basis for the budget, and that has been endorsed in the Stortinget. In fact, many local communities in pig-grown areas in Norway would have even more problems with their policies. Then the result would be that businesses had been shut down in the same areas. So it's about seeing the relationship between what we can afford – and how fast we can afford it – to maintain public spending, and the sustainability of the rest of the economy. Then I want to say that the school is going to get better every year with this government. Council of State Kristin Clemet has presented several important reform proposals, and not least there is one important reform proposal. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e371	Per Sandberg for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e374	I agree with the Council of State that it is possible to give more priority to municipalities. When the Labour Party sits and priorities in the municipalities, they choose to cut the elderly care, and that is of course regrettable. But there's another area I'd like to think of challenging the Council of State. Now it is the case that, over a number of years, the government has adopted state reforms. We have carried out tasks, and we should not be completely deterred from saying that perhaps some of those reforms have not been fully financed by the state. This has led to large debts being built up by municipalities, which is a major burden on the local economy. Could the Council of State look at the possibility of some form of debt restructuring where it can be demonstrated that state reforms have incurred additional costs for municipalities in the form of loans and indebtedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e381	I don't think indebtedness is a good idea. I think it's more important, if you're going to spend more money first, to give these as free revenues to all municipalities, regardless of whether they have high debt or not high debt. High debt can be based on very many different local decisions, not only on adopted state reforms. There are also some municipalities that have used their own revenues to cover parts of the excess in relation to state reforms, for example: in the case of the development of care for the elderly, so that it has not been crystallised into debt. So they've given it priority over other problems. If you had gone into debt restructuring in relation to the local government sector, I think it would have been unfair to those who run well, and to those who have used other types of income and put them into investment. In fact, I think using the usual income system and increasing the free income of the municipality to serve the debt would be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e390	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e393	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: The difference between Norwegian and Finnish schools is striking. In Finland, students are in line to become teachers. Finnish elephants read the most and best in the world. Finland places emphasis on clean and fine school buildings, high-standard classrooms, good, decent surroundings and support functions in the form of health sisters and support staff. They have very few private schools. The central part of Norway should have all the opportunities to invest in a good and common school, and that's also the best investment we can make in the future. We're looking at the insecurity that the government is now hurting. Does the Minister of State see the thousands of parents who are troubled because they lose the support functions of their children? Sees it that many now feel compelled to work for private options because the kids now have a choice [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e402	I think Finland is a good example of a country that has managed to get more out of the resources they put into school than Norway has. Finland spends less per cent. students than what we do. They are cutting internationally higher in the professional contexts than Norway is doing, in almost all areas. So they're technologically more innovative than Norwegian society. Yes, I think we have a lot to learn from Finland, and I know that Councillor Kristin Clement is working a lot on the question: What does Finland get? Of our neighbouring countries, Finland is actually the country closest to working according to the Right School Policy. They are also concerned about making better use of resources in school everyday life. If the Centre Party could have agreed that we should strive for the Finnish model, the Finnish mind and the Finnish results, and also make a strong effort to achieve better international professional results, we would have gotten better out of it. I understand that it is difficult and unsafe for many parents in today's situation, not least in terms of issues related to school leaving and related to local uncertainty, to allow some of the supporting functions to be aroused. The frustration many parents experience shall not germinate. But at the same time, it does not mean that there should be no development work at school. I think one of the interesting things that Councillor Kristin Clement has now suggested, which is at the hearing, namely greater municipal freedom of action in relation to class divisions and in relation to the fact that the principal does not need to be in each school, is one of the things that could actually help us use the resources better. And as a challenge to the Centre Party: Does the Centre Party agree to deregulate Norwegian school by giving greater local freedom, which will also help to make the use of resources in the tied parts compared to school everyday life smaller? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e412	Yes, for greater local freedom of action, but not without money being added to the tasks that both the government and the magnificence expect the municipalities to solve. I thought it was a mockery of all those who are now cutting the school budget across the country, that the council stands here today and blames the municipalities for doing blind cuts. The main difference between Norwegian and Finnish schools is that Finland has only a few private schools. They're betting on the public school. In fact, for questions about what they're going to bet on, answer less classes and greater learning density. The Norwegian government is now going the opposite way. The last time the Prime Minister was in spontaneous questioning, he used the whole spontaneous questioning hour to stress that he was concerned about the situation in the municipalities. I note that the municipal minister today is not at all disturbed, but believes it is on the right track when the municipalities are missing $6 billion to be able to fulfil their tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e419	I have said in all my answers that I understand that the situation in the local economy is difficult. And I think this discussion that is spreading about who is concerned or not concerned about Norwegian policy is being sought a little. We are all concerned that we should have a good welfare offer, but some of us are also concerned that it must be linked to an economic basis for the provision of well-being in the future. This means that we need to see the contexts of our society, among other things. the relationship between what we use in the public sector, in relation to what we can afford when we also want to have a competitive Norwegian business and jobs in District Norway, which I actually thought was one of the issues with which the Central Party was most concerned. Then they have to see the contexts in their own piece. In fact, it is a problem with some of the cuts in the municipal sector that they are being made quickly without having thought through them, and without having entered into the major conversion projects. I have learned a lot from many municipal politicians and many who work in the conversion sector. One of the most important things I've learned is that where there's good results in conversion decision-making on resource use. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e426	There will be follow-up questions – Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e429	In the past, the Council of State saw the need for a tightening of the public sector in order to reduce the competitive edge of the industry. In other words, we're talking about jobs. Yes, that's important, and with the budget agreement that the government party now entered into in the fall, the local government sector received NOK 1 billion more. An appointment with the Worker's Party would have given $3 billion more. I now note that the government party was actually very pleased with this budget agreement, which strengthened the local government sector by NOK 1 billion. It's a little handshake for the municipal sector. Does this not mean that the Government and the Council of State are bombing heavily when they put forward their proposals for the state budget now in the fall? We are now recording that there is a massive protest around in the municipal sector related to both education and well-being. In Skien e.g. 60 years' work shall be cut next year. The agreement with the Progress Party does not request better times. The ball gets fewer teachers, but more elephants, and the crossbows are laid down. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e436	It may sound as if 60 years' work is a lot to cut in the municipality of Skien. Mountain municipality outside Bergen, which is a working party-led municipality that has done a very good conversion work, cut over 30 years of work during the course of 2000, i.e. during the labor party government, due to changes in the income system. They did so without making major drastic changes to the service provision for users, precisely because they had a long-term process management for how they used the resources. In a number of municipalities, it is actually possible to make changes that do not necessarily affect the provision of services, if we focus on converting and using, among other things. Our administrative resources improve, create flat structures and improve governance. In some municipalities they have gone a long way and still have problems with it. I think it's strange that the Workers' Party says that with a deal with them we could get NOK 3 billion more to the local government sector. The Labour Party refused to negotiate with the government parties. [[The President clubs.]] They were done, they made demands that it was not possible to meet. [[The President clubs again, harder.]] I'm sorry. The train went.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e443	The president wonder many times how it would have been if the president hadn't followed the clock. Heikki Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e448	In the budget of the municipal minister, it is black and white that in the coming years, growth in the private sector should be higher than that in the public sector. If you read in the national budget, it says it's black and white that over the next five years, it's going to be so that all the oil money we bring into the economy is going to go to tax havens. They shall not go towards a welfare increase in the public sector at all. So we're going to be richer and richer, and the differences between the welfare levels I'm going to have and the welfare levels that are going to be in the municipalities and in the public sector are going to increase. One of the ways in which the Minister recommends improving the efficiency of the public sector is to cut back on mainstream schools, by centralising schools. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State think that parents around the country are going to experience it as a better school offer when they no longer have a school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e453	I know that there are many painful situations associated with the closure of all-round schools. All school leavings lead to change. Sometimes it also leads to better school provision in retrospect. And it turns out that once you've been through such a change, the wounds are healed. Sometimes the distances are so big that it's hard to make changes. In other places, in my opinion, it is actually quite possible that you can do that. The semi-declaration is quite clear on one thing: growth in the public sector must be lower than growth in gross domestic product. Why is that so? Well, that's because it has to. If we do not – in the situation we are in, with the lack of labour in our society – make sure that oil money is used in such a way, the demand for labour will force wages in Norway so high that competitive business disappears. It's for the sake of the whole thing. It is for the sake of Norwegian growth in the years to come that it is important to keep up the growth of public expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e460	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e463	I have a question for the Minister of State. I would like to follow up on the conclusion of the previous question. Unemployment is increasing. Some forecasts are that unemployment will increase dramatically. Enterprises are being laid down, enterprises are being flagged out. This is, as also pointed out by the Council of State, due to a high cost level in Norway — poor business conditions, plus a tax and tax level that requires workers to have high wages in order to meet their costs in relation to home and home. Now there are proposed budgetary constraints for the next year that are likely to lead to greater activity in order to get a job. But what happens when, in addition, the Government has a policy to lead to greater labour immigration of unskilled workers from countries outside the Schengen area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e472	As regards the Norwegian labour market and future needs, there is, in fact, an underlying shortage of labour in Norway. We have a shortage of labour in a number of areas. We also lack unskilled labour. At present, unemployment is increasing, but demographic developments show that there will be a shortage of labour in the years to come. So it's true in all parts of our working life. We are working on issues related to legislation for further liberalisation of labour immigration. One of the areas in which we have liberalised during this year is in relation to the bartender agreement, and the increased use of Russians in the fishing industry, which in many places still bears the mark that we do not get Norwegians or Norwegians to work. There would be a shortage of labour if we had not had this kind of agreement. There are also several other areas where such an extension is relevant. For example, agriculture needs us to define the seasonal labour force beyond what it is today. The government is also working on this. With regard to the method of liberalising unskilled labour, this is a question on which the Government has not yet concluded. However, we have always said that the prerequisite for unskilled workers to be employed in Norway is that labour is first sought in Norway and the EEA region. It must have been tried before an employer is allowed to hire a person from a non-EEA country. This means that in a situation where there is no capacity available, i.e. where the labour market is less tight in Norway, it will automatically make it more difficult for an employer to recruit one from outside the EEA area, because it will actually be available in Norway. That is why the need in the labour market will govern this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e484	I note that the Council of State is now reversing the Government's needs for unskilled labour immigration from outside the EU. I think it is a paradox that the government is still going in that direction, when we know that unemployment among immigrants in Norway is increasing by 20 pst. in the year, within some groups it is 60-70 pst. unemployment. Unemployment may pass 100,000 before we know the word. The EU will be enlarged by a number of countries from 2005, and then we will be free of labour from both Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Poland — and perhaps Romania and Bulgaria will be added. Do the Councils continue to see the need for labour immigration from countries outside these areas? I think that's a big paradox. It must be possible to start re-schooling the people who leave the labour market so that they can take the jobs for which the Council of State points out that there is a shortage of labour, instead of creating greater competition and unemployment in Norway by opening up even more labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e489	We are assessing how the enlargement of the EU will have an impact on the need for labour. There is an uncertainty as to how fast the pace of labour immigration liberalisation should be in Norway. For specialist and skilled workers' immigration, we have liberalised significantly in some areas from the turn of the year. It turns out that from many of the candidate countries to the EU will become members of the EU in a relatively short period of time, most specialists and skilled workers come to Norway. At the same time, I do not think that we should underestimate this long-term trend of labour shortages in Norway, because it is linked to the possibilities of spending more money in the public sector to the areas that many of us are so concerned about. We have to remember that if new workers arriving in Norway in the next few years, i.e. new employment in the labour force, were to be used in the care of the elderly for the next 10–15 years, we would not be able to improve quality, but only have the same offer as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e494	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e497	There's something open about self-responsiveness in this field in the government's policy. State councils are now standing here saying that too much labour is being used in the public sector. The government spends millions of dollars to engage health professionals from other countries to settings in Norway, while several thousand assistants and nurses could have had some incentive to work within that sector. Here are the disabled, here are the elderly who get upset too soon – and there is a huge increase in unemployment among immigrants in Norway. My question is: does the Council not see that there is a context here, and that it should engage even more in order to exploit the available capacity that we have in this field today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e504	The government is working intensively on that question. These include: therefore we have promoted changes in relation to the disability insurance system, with a time-limited disability benefit where there has been a focus on the working line. After all, it has been criticised by a majority in the UK that we should mobilise people to get more out of work by making sure that it wasn't unprofitable – that it wasn't made so high thresholds – if you were a little out of work, to move on to work. I also think that it may be a reflection of those who have been very critical of parts of the arrangement with temporary disability. We work on the issue of coordination between work, social security and social services. The Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget line includes a commitment to more individual follow-up of each long-term unemployed, precisely to motivate them and qualify them into the workforce in order not to be pushed out. If you go through systematically both the draft budget and the legislative proposals in the reforms that the Government is working on, you will see that we are working on that very issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e509	Torbjørn Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e512	I do not think the Council of State answers this question clearly and properly about the need for increased labour migration to Norway at a time when we have increasing unemployment in the country. And I want to remind the Solberg Council of what was said in the proposal for increased labour immigration that she herself promoted two years ago in Stortinget. I'll quote from it: ‘Right-wing believes that there is a need to convert labour immigration with general liberalisation and simplification.’ Of course, the party of progress strongly disagrees with this view. The same proposal from the Right also states that Norway has to import 40000 workers each year for the next 10 years to meet the need for more labour. Where did you get this? The reality is that we have almost 40,000 new job vacancies instead of this year. Times have changed in this area. And let me ask the Council of State Erna Solberg if she would have promoted this proposal today, and whether she plans to promote proposals for increased labour migration again in the near future. Or is it so that Erna Solberg regrets that she ever promoted this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e524	I must be allowed to stress that it is a mistake when Andersen says that it says that we will have 40,000 new each year, in that proposal. So it's not. It says that the Aetat Work Survey showed a shortage of 43,500 jobs in 2000. We haven't said that it means 40,000 more each year. We have from the right in that document not numerically fixed how large that number should be at any time. Because what I just said to Per Sandberg, which is an essential criterion, was also present in the proposal we have made, namely that we should first look for labour in the EU/EEA area before we are allowed to hire someone outside the area. It will therefore depend on the fluctuating needs of Norwegian businesses how many will arrive each year. It would be completely illogical for the Right to have numerically fixed it in a document like that, because that's not the way we think about it. We're actually thinking about getting things that work more in connection with the market. Yes, we are going to propose further types of liberalisation – which I also answered Per Sandberg's main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e531	Sign Eye - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e534	The Council of State is not supposed to be here to say that we lack unskilled labour in Norway. We have 100,000 unemployed. We have 100,000 unemployed, many of them want to get to work, and we have 100,000 part-time employees who want larger jobs. Let's get into those groups and see how much labour you get out of it. That I think will be quite a lot. And in the case of unskilled workers outside the EEA: we have an unemployment rate among immigrants today, which is 10 pst. What is the Government's answer? Well, less Norwegian training. The councils were forced to introduce an introduction program here in the Stortinge in spring. Now it's become the only gratifying thing to solve all the problems of integrating immigrants. That's good, because we know that's a program that works, and hopefully also brings down the high unemployment among immigrants. The Labour Party has put many more labour market measures into the budget for next year, because we know that it also works in relation to this group. But what does the Council of State intend to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e543	We have proposed in the budget no longer to provide Norwegian training to asylum seekers in the period before they have been given a decision. Once they have been given a decision, they will receive intensive Norwegian training to be prepared for integration, if they are to go to the Norwegian community. This is due, inter alia, to: that there is a much smaller proportion of those who come who get a yes, than it was before. So in spring it was 80 pst. negative decisions. Now the positive decisions are between 26 and 28 pst. of the arrival figures. That means that we spend a lot of resources on Norwegian training for people who are not to be integrated. Then I want to say that with regard to the introduction program, what was said is incorrect. The government has said in the Sem statement that we are going to introduce the introduction program, and we have said this in Stortinget. The question was whether we should do this experiment, that is, determine: should we trust that the municipalities can use the law on a voluntary basis, or should we make it mandatory? This government is often a little bit more liberal compared to the idea that the municipalities actually think wisely and would do the same. We had given them a law tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e551	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-04.ana.ud1196e562	There is no record.
