ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e27	The representatives Einar Holstad, Julie Christiansen, Ågot Valle, Silja Ekeland, Hans R. Kjærstad and Per Sandberg, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Jon Olav Alstad, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Ursula Evje from 22 October onwards. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e71	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e77	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meeting on Wednesday and Thursday – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e82	I propose Kjell Engebretsen, Ranveig Frøiland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e87	Kjell Engebertsen, Ranveig Frøiland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen, Ranveig Frøiland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinges meetings on Wednesday and Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e95	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e99	On behalf of Lodve Solholm and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal that hobbyists who have completed and passed a course in the use of pesticides should receive authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e104	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e122	I have reported this interpellation to focus on an important future industry for the coast and for the country. Seafood production is already too high in export revenue. The expected growth in this area is enormous, and a large growth is already expected over the next decade. In order to realise the expected growth in the value added of seafood production, it is necessary to actively research into new species and to increase their utilisation and level of processing. This seems to be a broad consensus on both business operators, politicians and other actors. Since the mid-1990s, systematic and targeted efforts have been made to build up the necessary knowledge and skills to develop a viable, profitable and environmentally friendly shellfish industry in Norway. This work has been done on the basis of what is described in St.meld. No 48 for 1994–95 on public aquaculture policy and the signals given in dealing with it in the United Kingdom. Further strategic plans from both the Ministry of Fisheries, the SND and the Norwegian Research Council have also been used as the basis for this work. Research institutions have been working to develop the necessary knowledge base, and selected shellfish companies, funded by SND’s business development programmes, are working to transform this knowledge into practical shellfish farming. A number of shellfish farms exploit the new competence of their plants. The new breeding actors have a significant need to establish professional exchange venues. The recent work of these economic operators means that they have a great need to share information and professional experience. Thus, since 1994, a specific scale project has contributed to the dissemination of professional information between economic operators and to the organisation of meeting places for economic operators, and the project has contributed as a major precursor to the National Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture Industries in this area. Since few of the new actors have revenues to enable these activities to be financed exclusively by the actors themselves and since this form of networking is linked to the possibility for business operators to exchange and develop, public funding has been provided. The Skating Project and the Land Association of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Industries may and will carry on this central work, but on the condition that public authorities take part in the investments in this work and thus in an important future value creation. The cuts in the instrument have resulted in previous sources of funding that have not supported the Skell project for the year we are in. Now it is not the case that the actors in this industry have not even contributed financial resources to the research and development of the shellfish industry. Since the mid-1990s, a number of players have invested more than 100 million. kr to ensure that shellfish farming can develop into a profitable business in the years to come. I am aware that the Land Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture and the Skell project have an agreement that the technical networking activity of the Skell project can be continued as a project under the auspices of the Landsforening of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Industry. However, this requires secure external financing as this association does not have the option of taking this investment on its own. I am also aware that the actors have applied for support from the Ministry of Fisheries if necessary to secure the business, but they have apparently not received an answer to the application. In any case, the response was not received when this interpellation was delivered. As I see it, the government has changed significantly in the negative direction of the framework conditions for industrial development, making it difficult to get new industries and businesses going around the country. It's e.g. not possible for companies and small enterprises in the shellfish industry to avail themselves of all kinds of favourable tax rules, which are so much discussed by the Government during these days. Such economic operators need public support in a start-up phase. They have no income to receive tax relief, and they cannot, of course, get the drudgery they need at first, until the income comes and before they can have anything to pay taxes or get tax reliefs from. In addition, this applies to a new industry, where, of course, it is more difficult to get started. It requires a great effort to create a powerful industry with solid and profitable enterprises, and it is a good public investment to participate financially in this work. So far it's distributed approx. 500 shellfish farming concessions – as far as I know – that are distributed across all coastal regions of the country, and many enthusiastic and competent professionals have started with shellfish farming in faith in the state as a stable and long-term partner. All these shellfish enterprises continue to operate in the frontier between research and commercial operations and, in particular, public funding for this important research work is the most sought-after. I hope that the Council of State can say something about how his department will assist this industry, so that they can move on with this important building of a forward-looking industry. Norway, with its many good locations, has a high potential in shellfish production. In addition, shellfish industry has an established and growing market in Europe, unlike many other new species. Without public support to develop this industry, it may take a very long time before we get a shelling industry in Norway with some impact. Experience in salmon industry shows that commercialisation of a new species takes 15 to 20 years. The cross-border industry can be a major industry in coastal areas where there is a high need for new jobs. I hope that the will to invest in this important district industry can be increased, so that this great value creation potential can be exploited in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e158	A few years ago, several key research communities and the Norwegian Research Councils presented investigations that showed that there is a large undissolved marine value creation potential. It has led to an increased focus on how public policy instruments should be organised into a comprehensive innovation policy. The policy design and instruments of several departments have an impact on industrial development in the marine sector, such as: regional and district policies. The Ministry of Fisheries's interaction with other departments is therefore important. This is the basis for the creation of the Government Committee for Marine Valuation, which I am in charge of. For the Government, it is important to pursue a policy that allows for the extraction of the significant value creation potential that lies in marine natural resources and that was also pointed to by the interpellant. The marine industry is international and operates in demanding markets. Consumers' awareness of, for example, food quality and food safety is increasing and demands new knowledge from manufacturers. In order to realise the value creation potential and secure companies that can compete internationally, we depend on innovative enterprises. Enterprises collect ideas and impulses for improvements and new developments from a broad range of external actors such as customers, suppliers, competitors, R & D environments, consultants, etc. This says something about the importance of interaction and knowledge transfer, where companies have to appear as demanding customers of knowledge-based solutions. It is not enough to be a critical customer, but our business must also be demanding customers in this interaction, whether we are going to be and remain market leaders. As Mr Arnesen's representative has pointed out, we expect an increase in marine value creation, also based on the cultivation and cultivation of new marine species. To this year the shellfish industry has exported about 1100 tonnes of bluefish to a value of 7 million. kr. Although the Norwegian production potential is significant, there is an unmet need in the European market for shellfish, and we know that the industry is still facing major challenges. However, the establishment of profitable business in new marine species has so far only partially succeeded in Norway. There's several reasons for that. Experience has shown that marine economic development is particularly time consuming. We talk fast about over ten years for the development of a single species. The salmon adventure, which many people talk about, is actually a result of bet 30-40 years ago. We are facing an emerging industry where the risk is high, as the development of knowledge of a biological, technical and production nature is taking place at the same time as the market for products is also developing. R & D needs are high and comprehensive. Specific bottlenecks include the foreseeable production of juveniles and adequate knowledge of market convergence. One issue I am concerned with is the sharing of responsibilities between the private and public sectors to contribute to marine economic development. How does the public best contribute to promoting innovation in the marine industries, we need to ask. It's especially in this context that I'm busy with networks and other types of meeting places. What is a network? I can give more answers to that question, because it includes: depends on the type of development tasks in which the network is involved and the stage in which the enterprise is developing. In common with the networks, they offer meeting places and provide trust between actors to ensure the flow of information. The development of salmon industry is a typical and good example of what networks can do when they are open. In addition to active interaction, they also contribute to mobilising actors. This is important in order to develop common objectives and strategies, identify bottlenecks and clear responsibilities. The experience of our instrumentation, such as the Norwegian Research Council and the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund, is that networks are important and essential for building new industries and stimulating further development in existing industries. So how does public work with the networks? The Ministry of Fisheries has the objective of increasing the knowledge intensity of the marine industries through targeted networks. Through the Tax Fund, as proposed by the Government in next year's budget, we are laying the foundation for increased research and development in enterprises. At the same time, I have pointed out the importance of interaction. Through our direct actions in the NFR and SND, we will help increase the flow of knowledge between the actors. Both NFR and SND consider ongoing applications for — and contribute — funds for networking activities in established industries and industries at an early stage. Networks are also a central element of NFR user-driven projects. Network support needs to be assessed on the basis of its benefits in terms of industrial development. Excessive networks may be rapidly less appropriate for the individual economic operator. Therefore, a network of size and scale is not transferable from one industry to another. It has to be adapted. We then see the importance of having more targeted networks to address concrete challenges, preferably linked to development projects in enterprises. In the 2003 budget, we propose a reinforced effort on cod in farming by fishing research of over 10 million. kr, and an increase by NFR, this in order to follow up the strategy on cod, where networks are also focused. And the interpellant took up not only shells, but all new species. In addition, cod networks are supported by 800000 DKK above the SND budget, as an example. We also propose to continue the marine biotechnology research programme in Tromsø, MABIT, by 5 million. kr. Here the interaction between researchers and other developers is central. This was a program that was planned to be closed by the end of this year. But we're just going on with the reason that Arnesen was also involved, the need for interaction between researchers and developers. In general, however, it is important to point out the responsibilities of the industry itself, through the normal organisational system, in order to operate networks. This also ensures cleanliness in relation to the different types of work of the networks, such as providing business policy advice to management and policy-makers. We see that the public has an important role to play in the start-up phase, precisely to stimulate start-ups. The public must therefore keep under constant review when it is natural that the ordinary organisation apparatus should assume the primary responsibility for operations, such as the Skell project. This has also happened with the Skell project after the representative Arnesen took up his interpellation. I am pleased that the Norwegian Skjellforum is now under the founding of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Association. The Foundation, in close cooperation with the FHL, shall contribute to triggering the nutritional potential of Norwegian shellfish industry. The main focus will be on project coordination, information and peer-reviewing, where the FHL will carry out the more business policy tasks. So the sign project and the realization of this network are now in the process of happening, as Arnesen demanded. A specific programme for the development of the economic development of marine species in farming, NUMARIO, was established in 1997. Networking and dissemination of information were emphasised here, and NUMARIO has supported networks on shellfish, stone bits and halves. Numario is now being completed and evaluated to provide increased knowledge on how to organise the instrument when it aims to develop business within a sector. We would like, among other things: assess the importance of long-term industry networks. And as the Storting is familiar with, the Government is currently evaluating the entire instrument, precisely to focus it more on innovation. At the same time, the public space for action to support the operation of networks is limited by EEA legislation in this area. This means that the public usually has no opportunity to support the operation of networks for more than three years. Substantial support is provided regionally to network marine species in farming. In order to give regions the freedom to meet their own challenges with regional solutions, the county council is now strengthened as a regional development actor. The Government proposes to decentralise significant parts of the public economic instruments for economic development. From next year, the regional level will have a significant influence in this area. Networks are largely about geographic proximity, and we therefore see this as very favourable. In addition, national knowledge networks are also needed. We have therefore proposed a new Marine Innovation Programme of 10 million in the 2003 budget. kr to SND. We focus on breeding new species and general innovative measures, such as networks. Our work on innovation is now focusing on the importance of the business environment in which enterprises exist. We want the marine industry to appear as a demanding customer to the knowledge providers, whom I was in for. At the centre of today is how the public can contribute to improving the interaction of economic operators with external sources of competence through the development of competences, the establishment of meeting places, cooperation forums and networks. I see it as crucial that networks and learning processes are strongly anchored in business, while the public more should have the function of catalyst. An important element in facilitating increased marine value creation is to meet the needs for innovation and networking in our work on the instrument and a forward-looking Research Council. We're working on both of these parts. This is not just about access to public money. It is probably so much about the way in which actors work and adapt to this in the tools system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e202	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Much of what the council said, I can sign on, and I actually said a lot about it in my post. That we have to extract the potential that lies in these new species, which means a lot to settlement and activity along the coast, is the most important thing we have to deal with. It is also true that exports have already started, but they could have been much bigger if you had been a little more offensive in last year's budget to move on. Then you talk about what a network is in such a context. Who will develop these networks? I believe that in the work done in the Skell project, a network has been set up that had a sudden stop after last year's budget. And if there's anyone who can and should be able to develop networks in such industries, it's the actors themselves who are following developments on a daily basis. Then the Council of State shows that funds have been allocated to new species, and he mentions some species in that context. Then my questions are: how much money has been actually gone to secure the Skell project, which got a stop last year? What is given specifically to the shellfish industry to enable it to develop further? I am aware that actors in this year have actually had to go abroad to find help to get on with this work, and that should not be the case. I hope the Council of State can say a little about this, and that here we can have a debate that focuses on this important industry, so that it goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e215	I am pleased that we can see – Arnesen also says – that we are essentially in agreement that this is a great potential for development and for value creation, that this is a district industry, that there is a need for investment both in the development of skills and in the development of networks, and that capital and market knowledge are other important elements in the development of an industry. I think I have a completely different opinion – I think the industry also has – than that there were some sudden stops last year because of the state budget. A development of such an industry as this one has a much longer perspective than from one year to another. I remember that the salmon industry, where the total export now amounts to 30-40 pst., has evolved over 30-40 years. And it was a long period of research and development before we came up with a commercialization. It is also the case that the sector of the shellfish industry, which has been supported by the instrument, is also supported in the future. But there is nothing wrong with the industry seeking external capital, whether it is now in Norway or abroad. This is an international industry operating on international markets and it is an international competence exchanged across borders. And networking is just a development and sharing of knowledge. – So in that way I see nothing wrong with it. Secondly, it is also possible to support and finance parts of the sector’s development and projects through various instruments such as: are financed from the budgets of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Fisheries. Here, SND and the Research Council are key actors. In addition, through what has been done and what is to be done in the future, we primarily want to stimulate innovation and the development of an early phase of the shellfish industry. You can almost get the impression, from what Arnesen's representative says, that the public agency should be involved in taking the whole risk in this industry. That can't be the point, but from the Government's side, we want to stimulate innovation first and foremost. That is why, in the budget now under discussion in the Grand Duchy, we have also proposed a significant extension of the tax FUNN scheme, which will help not only small businesses but all types of enterprises benefit from it. We have seen that the tax FUNN scheme as it was, was not good enough for the marine sector, and I am sure that it will now be a much better instrument. We are proposing a marine innovation programme that will also contribute to development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e228	Norway is now experiencing a very negative trend. Much of our traditional business life wears off, and daily we can read about permits, deflagrations and closures of businesses. Unfortunately, it is the number of unemployed paths. Very many of the jobs lost during these days are located in District Norway, in areas where there are few alternative jobs. Of course, we need to do what we can to take care of existing businesses, but we always need to focus on innovation and innovation. One of the areas where we can create new jobs is within the marine sector. In particular, in times of recession, it is important to keep an eye on the opportunities for creating new jobs. Therefore, we should have an increased focus on these possibilities today. Unfortunately, we have to establish that it is the opposite that happens. The government has weakened the innovation tool. Last year, the government announced a new course – and of course a new government is allowed – but unfortunately, this change in course has made it harder to focus on the questions that the interpellant is addressing today. Few areas had such a drastic transformation as district policy, industrial policy and, not least, the SND framework. The government's cut last year led, among others. to eliminate the full scope of industrial development in the marine sector. Together with the other cuts in the SND, this led to almost total cessation of the development of shellfish nutrition. It is right, as the minister says, that these are things that take time, but it is clear that one will use even longer time to develop the contention if the public should not contribute to such a development. These are fine wordings in the Sem Declarations, which include: states that a ‘will better facilitate businesses and people with a sense of urgency and creativity’ and that a wish for ‘Norway to be an attractive country for investment and for the development of new ideas and businesses’. But that's the opposite of it. Innovation also has become more difficult to launch in the marine sector. It is a mantra from the Government that one should now bet on the general tools. This was, among other things, an argument. was used when the government party broke all its promises for the maritime sector. So one should have a general tool. Of course, it is important to have the general instrument in place, but at the same time one must have targeted measures if one wants to achieve something. I'm pretty sure this is an area where in a few years we can talk about the lost possibilities, if you don't get a completely different bet than what you've had at the moment. I could imagine asking the Minister if he actually believes in the possibilities of getting a growth within, among other things. the contrasting diet without even having a special agent directed specifically at this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e245	I thank the interpellant for the initiative to put this matter on the agenda, while I thought he received an offensive response from the Council of State. I think that you do both yourself, perhaps least, and most of all the future shellfish industry a bear service by focusing and believing that it is at all times public efforts and contributions in the networking that are crucial to the success of this industry. You probably know with yourself that it's not where the shoe presses. I think that you do yourself and the industry a bear service if you think that growth in production and value creation comes of itself, depending on it at all times suggested the investment in the state budget. I think you have to tighten up and imagine the conflicts that lie in the future in this area too, among other things. imagine the major land conflicts that this industry will face in the future and the conflicts that have to be faced in the market. This is an industry that is going to sell -- let's say it carefully -- 90-95 pst. of its output beyond the borders of the country. In a consumer growth market, we also see that where we have our greatest advantage in the world, namely salmon, we lose market shares almost every day that goes. Then you can't, as you try here, choose to look back and talk about the snow that fell last year, all the time we know the challenge is on a completely different arena. I think you also choose to ignore the facts. In fact, in this area, we also see in this year's budget that appropriations for research and development, not least through the Norwegian Research Council, have grown significantly. We all know that the marine sector is one of the priorities of the Norwegian Research Council. I think one also chooses to focus on the negative if one sees that the development of this industry must go hand in hand with the development of salmon industry, hand in hand with the massive investment in cod farming and the continuation of research in the quince sector that we have done over many, many years. It will of course be part of the same actors who will also be involved in future shellfish industry in Norway. This is not to say that this is simple. We need to talk about land conflicts, and we need to talk about market access, which may be the most important question in this context. If one succeeds in getting this Norwegian Skjellforum in place, I am sure that the investor and the tool set up in the further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e254	There's no doubt that everyone in Norway is some of the big potential in the marine sector when it comes to creating values for future generations. But what gives cause for concern is that the biggest obstacle to us being able to exploit the potential that lies there is the concession law we have in this country when it comes to the marine sector. The majority of the political environment, not least the Working Party, is able to make it a land scarcity factor in Norway by having the long-distance coast. And then one actually manages to prevent evolution by saying that one has area scarcity. One should be aware that if one collects all the farms in Norway within a small area, it corresponds to the area covered by the two ferries between Magerholm and Sykkylven in Storfjorden. It's the total area of farming in Norway today. And then the political environment, not least the Workers' Party, is able to make it seem like there's a shortage of land, that we don't have enough land, and then we're just distributing 40 concessions in the farming industry over the next few years – and then it's got a standstill for ten years. Then we haven't set ourselves up the way we should. It doesn't help with one research project after another if we're not willing to open up and give opportunities to those who want to use venture capital. What is the problem here is that the industry does not see the business opportunities when public policy is being pursued, putting obstacles to regulatory obstacles, and not least through fiscal policy. Nor are we offensive enough to create a market for fish in Europe and be willing to see something new there. Then, of course, the industry also has problems going in and finding this so profitable that a user uses risk capital. Then you shouldn't expect the state and the public to go in and be the main actor here. The state's position with R & D funds and seed means is good and good, and it has to be done, but the industry also has to look at the business situation in the future. Then I think that the most important thing that public can do is to facilitate the concession conditions, so that it is possible for those who have the pleasure and the ability to start. Then someone gets a test and a fault, but then the industry goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e259	In recent years, there have been active efforts to develop shellfish farming in Norway. Skeletal cultivation is a major international industry with an annual production of more than 9 mills. tonnes in 1998. Most of the world's shellfish production is cultivated, while the rest is the capture of wild populations. We have good natural intentions along the Norwegian coast to cultivate the most important shell types used in Europe, and we have large natural occurrences of other types of shell. We have a long coastline, we have good locations, and we have favorable temperatures. The potential for shellfish farming in Norway is high. The market potential is also high. The development of the schism mode stands and falls on the resources that are being inserted. Analyst shows that the divisional industry is facing major challenges, both biologically, technologically and, as many people have pointed out, also in a market context. This requires the competence of the nutritionist, the administrator — and also this room — and the R & D institutions that are responsible for discriminating. State councils have previously said in Stortinget that the value creation scenario for the marine industries we are being presented to takes us a long way away. The Council of State has said that the scenario shows what can be fully achieved, but that it says little about what is going on in order for it to become a reality. What is a clear definition of all the scenarios that we know about, for this to be real, is an extensive commitment to research and development. It's a commitment that I thought the government was taking too easy on. One would like to say that research and development will be focused on marine species in relation to shellfish, but that is no longer true. I would therefore encourage the Council of State to respond specifically to the challenges raised by the interpellant here today. I would also like to say that the contributions from the representatives of Solholm and Kristiansen show that the need for research and development in this area is absolutely present. It is not that this is completely unproblematic, as one might get the impression. If I can allow myself a small page run, because it is likely long before we discuss differences again in this room, unfortunately, I will mention the debate that has been in the last days in relation to what goes under the notion of 'Norwegian poison fjords'. The government has no plan to clean up these fjords. These are locations for future schism, and here an absolute plan should be put on your feet to get a knowledge of how to get a clean-up. There is also an important framework for the development of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e272	Fish and fish products are Norway’s main exports of oil and gas. The fisheries and aquaculture industry provides us with good income and contributes to activity and housing along the coast. Aquaculture, if we pursue a policy of innovation and growth in this industry, can become our most important export industry in the future. We are now on the threshold of what becomes a maritime adventure, with several new fish species in commercial breeding and growth in shellfish production in several species. The exploitation and processing of natural resources is the basis for a large proportion of Norwegian business, and it is the main contribution to employment and housing in the districts. New technologies, combined with local insight and experience, also provide significant potential for many resource-based industries. I am therefore pleased that the Co-operation Administration is pursuing an innovation and research policy that allows the significant value creation potential that lies in marine and other natural resources to be extracted. Unlike petroleum, the aquaculture industry represents renewable resources if properly managed. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the work on creating growth in the aquaculture industry is based on the idea of sustainability. Environmental considerations must be a characteristic of the Norwegian aquaculture industry. Shielding plants produce a biomass in an ecologically good way, which has many possible uses, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t human feed material for animal feed shells and, where appropriate, input for soil improver feed source for special chemical products This testifies to a good use of resources. Aquaculture products are interesting not only for food production. The biological material that cannot be used as food may prove to be very important for many other purposes. But all of this requires that the nation and industry invest in knowledge and research in the marine sector. That is why I am pleased that the Ministry of Fisheries has promoted research as one of its main initiatives in its draft budget for next year. There is a clear and clear commitment from the Government. In particular, the Government’s proposal to establish a national marine biobank in Tromsø is joyous, allowing Norway to monitor and systematise its marine occurrences. The biobank will play a major role in future research and industrial development. There should be broad political agreement in this Chamber on a strong and clear commitment to the fisheries and aquaculture industry as a future engine in the Norwegian economy. In order to do so, research efforts will need to be strengthened. At the same time, we must ensure that the industry plays a role in the future and is based on the principle of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e300	There are probably few — if at all some — areas in which Norway has so good natural conditions to become one of the world’s leading nations as in the marine sector, and all the analyses that have been made in relation to what we will live on after oil, as it is said, show that this sector is likely to be the most important growth area in the future. Today's debate reveals that from this point on, too, there is a wide disparity between what is going on in order for this sector to develop. Of course, tax is not immaterial, and market access is definitely not immaterial for the development of the marine sector. But I'm going to think that the expansion of tax incentives has only helped to spread limited pleasure in the management of Pan Fish in the last few weeks. I also believe that we must recognise that with the fluctuations to which this industry is exposed, with the challenges it faces, and with the long-termity required in relation to the development of new species, neither tax relief nor market access will be enough to produce the new products and the new types of farming. In my opinion, industry neutrality, where capital is to go where it provides the most return and tax relief, will not result. It is also necessary to focus on the industries that you want to grow, on the part of the authorities. Without a determined commitment from the authorities, Norway would not have been one of the world’s leading oil nations today, Ireland would not have been one of the leading ICTs, and Finland would not have had its Nokia without the country’s being targeted and committed to the industries and industries that they wanted to develop, and where they saw that they had natural advantages. That's why it's sad to see that the industry that can become our leading growth industry is now being treated as voiced as it does on the part of the Government in terms of its willingness to bet on innovation. The Research Council has contributed approximately to the current farming industry. NOK 11⁄2 billion to get to where we are now, with a breeding industry that is currently up and going commercially. SND has contributed at least as much just to development and commercialisation. In this area, state involvement has been crucial. I agree with the Minister for Fisheries that it is necessary to think in the long term, that there is also a need to recognise that there is a high risk associated with this, and that there is still a great need for research. But then it's not enough to be busy with networks. The cuts in the SND do not allow us to develop the networks that the Minister for Fisheries wants. It is also not good enough when cut in the allocation to the SND, which significantly weakens efforts in these areas. There must be a completely different targeted effort on the part of the authorities, and the Central Party intends to continue to be a driver for this to happen. That's the only way we can grow in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e312	The councils describe the unsolved opportunities we have in the marine industry. The representative Solholm describes the area needs of the farming industry today. I will not go in and discuss the description he gives. He compares that need with the area needs of a specific ferry. For me, who has some background in the marine system, it seems that the ferry needs a new autopilot. Governments use many fine words to describe the genuine commitment of this government to this type of research and development. He also describes the need for a division of responsibilities between industry and the public. We agree on that. I want to say that I really feel that the division of responsibilities has been quite a bit twisted lately. The industry is experiencing a completely different situation than the one I hear being described from the Storting Chair. I really think the Storting should listen more to the industry than to use the industry in a political debate. I experience what I hear here from the pulpit, not being in harmony with the realities of the industry. What the farming industry experiences is that responsibility is being shifted more and more towards it. What will happen to the development of the industry in Norway will be done by industry and paid by industry. There is no doubt that it can be demonstrated that Norway is a slowdown in research and development in relation to other countries that are comparable to this, and we are also a slowdown in marine research. I'm going to describe the differences in reality as I experience it and as the industry experiences it, with two concrete examples. Despite all the fine words and claims of increased investment in the 2003 budget, there is a total zero growth in marine research in Norway, which is the reality of the industry. It's probably like some items have been increased, but then you've reorganized and some items have been reduced, so the sum is zero. In relation to the oil industry, where you have a so-called zero vision that everyone agrees on, I doubt that everyone agrees on the government's zero vision of this type of research. As of last year, we introduced an export levy on the fishing industry to finance the industry’s equity in order to increase its investment in research and development. The industry assumed that these funds should be the industry's equity to free up and stimulate increased investment. What we are experiencing now, after a year and a half and two years of this, is unfortunately what we feared, that where R & D funds are being used, that is to say, over this FHF fund, other sources of funding are going out. I feel the last thing that is contrary to the assumptions, and I want to ask the Council of State what he will do to try to help fulfill the assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e333	The council said in its speech that there was no sudden stoppage for this industry, and until that I can say that you can call it what you want, but the shellfish industry has reacted strongly to the fact that the funds contained in these programmes were lost at last year's budget. That's why this interpellation has come. I thought maybe when that interpellation got over the summer waiting to be answered, maybe you should look at this and put some money into it. That is precisely why we have this debate. The industry has reacted strongly to the fact that they did not get on with the work they were doing, because of the deterioration. I believe, of course, that the industry should take its share of the cost of building up the industry, and that private capital should be collected, and I also said that in my post. I actually showed that it's been done, that it's been badly penetrated, but it has to be based on the economic potential of these companies. The problem is that in the absence of public funds, this gives a signal effect which also weakens the availability of private capital to such a new and relatively uncertain industry before research has been completed. In this way, I fully agree with the examples referred to by the representative, Mr Enoxen, from other countries and from other industries. Then I just want to comment on what the Progress Party's Solholm says about in a way to leave everything free and without control when it comes to concessions. We're talking about large areas here, and I guess I'll let myself say that I don't believe anything special about the area description given by Solholm. This is going to happen inside fjords along the whole coast, and then it's important that the facilities are located so that everyone can stand behind the industry and that there are no conflicts. I think this actually works well today, and I haven't heard any signals about anything else from the industry. I think this has been a good debate, and I see the signals from Stortinget as good for this industry. Therefore, this development of the industry will be closely followed by more than me, I have the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e342	There's been an interesting debate, I agree with the interpellant, and the time goes fast when you only have one hour. The representative Akselsen opened up saying that business is struggling. The marine sector and the fishing industry are export-oriented, and it is clear that it is precisely those who have problems when exchange rate developments and interest rate developments are the same. The main contribution we can make in the development of the marine sector is therefore to have the tight budget that businesses themselves are asking for. The working party may, during the autumn, contribute to the implementation of a tight budget in the Stortinget. It will be an important, yes the most important, handbill for the development of the marine sector. Then the head of the nutrition committee also asks if I have faith in growth in the shellfish industry. Yes, I do, and the potential is great, as several of the participants in the debate have pointed out. There are large areas we can exploit, there is a lot of knowledge transferred from traditional fishing and farming, the coast has room for a large production. Actually, it's probably just the imagination that sets limits. One small example: now that we know that there are significant amounts of energy in the waste water from Snow White and the production of Melkøya, we can think about what we could use that energy and that heat to in the development of, for example, shellfish industry or farming of other species. There is no doubt that there is a potential, but we have to go up some boundaries in terms of public responsibility and private responsibility. The main responsibility lies with the industry, while the public can contribute instruments at an early stage and to innovation. Knowledge, entrepreneurial spirit, capital, market and networks are important. That's why we're also supporting the last one. But I want to warn you that we politicians get so problem-oriented that we talk into a negative perception of the shellfish industry and the marine sector, we need to look more at the possibilities. The government wants Norway to be an attractive country for investment and for the development of new ideas and activities. And in the Sem Declaration, we emphasise the desire – and we follow it up in the budget – to pursue a policy that makes it possible to extract the significant value creation potential that lies in marine natural resources. Through cross-sectoral and cross-ministerial efforts, the Government aims to facilitate industry's release of the potential for value creation in the marine sector. Solholm took concessions as an obstacle to development. On the part of the Government, we have stated clearly in the Sem Declaration that for salmon and trout, we want to continue the concession system – it also has something to do with the market – while for other species, we are committed to freedom of establishment as far as the environment, health and safety are concerned. In the case of Enoxen and tax, I just want to remind you of the TaxFUNN. As we put it up now, the enterprises that are not in the tax position for full deduction will receive a grant equal to the tax deduction for which they are in the tax position. [[The President clubs.]] Otherwise, I can't, President, answer any more questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-22.ana.ud2132e361	No, you don't. Then we have finished dealing with case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
