ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e30	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Wednesday and Thursday – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e35	I suggest Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e40	Ranveig Frøiland is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative Karl-Anton Swensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e45	On behalf of the Coastal Party, I would like to make a proposal to adjust the fuel charges according to the price development of crude oil in order to put a ceiling on prices and thereby provide more predictable framework conditions for transport users and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e50	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e53	I'm going to make suggestions on the appointment of a war children's commission for the further preparation of a national war children's brawl.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e58	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e81	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Einar Steensnæs, Torild Skogsholm and Kristin Krohn Devold will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e90	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport. The Directorate of Roads has recommended that we in Norway allow vehicle combinations that measure approx. 25 meters and weighing 60 tons, on some sections. This is a sharp increase in both length and weight, especially in length. Experience shows that heavy goods vehicles are involved in approx. every four traffic accidents. Many of these hatches are very serious, many are actually deadlocks, and they happen in connection with pastimes. The Labour Party's advice is that, in the light of road safety considerations, we must say no to this. Will the Council of State follow this Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e101	For this government, road safety is very important. Of course, when it comes to issues like this, road safety will also be an important element of the assessments that we have to make. The Road Directorate has submitted a proposal to my department, which proposes to grant a limited authorisation for the use of such vehicle combinations. There has been a broad consultation of this proposal. The purpose of this authorisation, if any, is to facilitate, inter alia: the cost to business of transport. Authorisation has been granted in some other countries for this type of vehicle combination. The hearing held by the Road Directorate in this case has been quite large and extensive. That's about. 100 hearing bodies that have had the opportunity to make recordings. I will now go through both the letter that has come from the Directorate of Roads, with the proposal that they want to go further, and the consultations that have been carried out. It is also natural for me to listen to the recordings I get from the Storting in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e110	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am happy that she regards road safety as an important element. As I have understood the hearing authorities, no one doubts that these car combinations are more dangerous in relation to road safety. We also see some other negative aspects, even though parts of business see something positive, and the negative thing is that it can lead to a poor district profile and give some centralisation effect. It is mainly the road safety that we are concerned about in the Labour Party, that we run along the roads, and children who walk along the roads – and wake up for the sake of the cause – should not be sucked away from the trailers. I run on the roads myself and hit trailers, and when I know the suction that is now on the road with trailers that are 6.5 meters shorter, I really have to say that I hope that the Council of State will find to say no. There must be very heavy arguments to expose people to major hazards on the Norwegian road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e117	I notice, of course, the opinion of the representative of Ausdal Starrfeld. Both roads have been recorded in terms of road safety, including: calculations have been made to indicate that fewer combinations of vehicles will be allowed on the road. At the same time, we all know, as the representative here points out, that the experience of the road safety situation is important and proper to include in this picture and in these decisions that need to be taken. So I take with me the views that the representative here makes, and I want to make a decision on this, fairly quickly. But I want to go through the views that have come from all sides, and want to look carefully at the assessments that the Road Directorate has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e122	There will be follow-up questions – Heidi Sørensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e125	It is a fact that the limited sections where the Directorate of Road proposes to drive these very long trails are exactly the same routes where the railway can compete on the freight. This means that the proposal will also have a significant negative environmental impact. Will the Council of State take into account that we want to transfer more goods to the railway, on the basis of which she is to assess this, in addition to assessing road safety? There is also reason to note that the EU does not allow these trails either, and that only Finland and Sweden have been exempted. So what will the Council of State take into account when making these assessments? Are environmental considerations being taken into account, and is road safety being placed in the high-seat?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e132	There are many considerations that should be included in those assessments. It concerns both accessibility, transport costs, environment, not least, and road safety. Now it turned out from the analyses that have been carried out that the impact on the environment can be eliminated in several ways. If you fill up these vehicle combinations in a reasonable way and take advantage of the efficiency that can lie there, it could in itself mean less emissions. For me, it is important that we have environmentally friendly transport, not least on the freight side, but I see that there may be several aspects to this matter. It is not necessarily that the environment serves it, but it can be beneficial that such car combinations are on the road rather than have more short ones. The consideration of alternative forms of transport which are at least as good, or more environmentally friendly, I must also take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e141	Sigrun Eng – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e144	So far, the Council of State has not told us about its view or its view of the long train trains. But does the Council of State see that it seems to be a distortion of competition? It is a state that has not been called upon to take such transport. There are only a few selected sections that can take these types of cars. Safety must be taken into account in such an understated industry, where income margins are low. This must be another blow to the business community in District Norway. I want to give the Council a new opportunity to give a clear answer as to how it actually behaves to the long 25 metres wagon trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e149	Now, as I was about to do, it's been a process in the Road Directorate in relation to this. There has been a broad consultation round. This consultation round wanted me to be conducted, and there have been a lot of hearing replies. They I want to go through properly. That is why I am not going to give an answer today, because I want to spend some time on it – not for long, but I want to spend some time. Competition is important in this context. Some of the background that this proposal appeared, as I understand it, was among other things. the conditions of competition in the Nordic region, and they could argue for these vehicle combinations. But I also see, as the representative of Eng here points out, that there may be factors in the internal competition situation in Norway that could be affected by this. There's also something I'm going to assess before I decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e156	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e159	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy a question. It's war in the Middle East. One of the consequences of this war is that the oil price is rising. The oil price today is over $26 a.m. barrel, and that means that the money flows into the Norwegian state treasury in increasing floods. The Norwegian contribution to the Palestinian territories is estimated at 100 million. kr per. years, informed Jan Petersen SV’s storage group for some time ago. The added value due to the high oil price is estimated to be 100 million. kr per. the day of the Norwegian Treasury. It is clear that the main responsibility for rebuilding the Palestinian territories must rest on Israel – it is Israel that is now systematically operating and destroying infrastructure – but at the same time it also has a special responsibility on Norway and other countries to help rebuild Palestine. My question to the Minister of Oil and Energy is: Will Norway also, as the leader of the donor country group, take the initiative to use part of Norway's added value now to rebuild infrastructure as the embodiment of the Israeli military power?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e166	With regard to Norway’s contribution in the Middle East, both in relation to trying to get the parties to negotiate around a negotiating table and also in relation to the reconstruction of what is being destroyed by the war that is now taking place – and also the humanitarian aid that is obviously necessary – I refer to what both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have said. That's the government's overall view. The situation in the Middle East obviously affects the prices, we see that. As regards my responsibility as Minister of Oil and Energy, I would like to point out that the Norwegian decision on 17 December last was based on three points: firstly, it was a unilateral decision. Secondly, it was a decision that had been taken without formalised cooperation either with OPEC or with countries outside OPEC. And thirdly, this decision could be lifted at any time, should it prove that the situation on the market so permits. The Government does not intend to use oil regulatory measures as a policy instrument. It is the market situation that will govern our decision in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e173	I record that the oil minister does not answer the question. SV has supported the limitation of oil production that the Government has implemented, and we will also come back to these questions if the Government wants to. But it's not my business today. My concern is that Norway has a role to play. I appreciate the fact that both Jan Petersen and Prime Minister Bondevik are getting increasingly sharp in the tone of Israel, because that is necessary. We also see that the whole Western world is getting sharper and sharper in tone, like the rest of the world. At the same time, we have moral responsibility. Because we're a profiter on this as the oil price rises, among other things. Because there's a war in the Middle East. This means that we have an additional moral responsibility, both because we lead the donor country group and because Norway has traditionally had a role to play in the Middle East. To give a signal that there will be more to contribute than what Norway is doing today – Jan Petersen has informed about this. One hundred million. kr in a year to Palestine – well and good, but our profits are estimated to be 100 million. kr per. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Would not a signal from the Norwegian Government that we want to contribute more to the reconstruction of Palestine be a wise and correct contribution to such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e182	I fully agree that it is natural for Norway, with the special and good contact network we have established in the Middle East with both parties, to enter into a strong commitment in the areas that the representative Djupedal now mentions. But I have nothing to add to what both Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs have said. It is the members of the government who have a particular constitutional responsibility for these matters that Djupedal addresses. This is the government's overall view, and that's of course my view as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e187	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e190	As already mentioned, the Government, together with others, took part in the harvest. OPEC and Russia production restrictions on Norwegian base to push up oil prices. The party protested against these restrictions at the time, because of the world economic situation and not least because this would hit the weakest economies hardest. In the press in the last few days, we have been informed that the Government is considering lifting the production restrictions, and the IEA says that they recommend Norway to do so, according to the Evening Post. At the same time, we could read on TV 2's text TV two days ago that the Council of State had concluded an agreement with its Russian colleague on further limitations. Will the Council of State confirm or disclaim the conclusion of such an agreement, or will it now take reasonable steps to remove these restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e195	I can confirm that such an agreement has been concluded to which reference is made. There is a misunderstanding, and corrective statements have also been sent to the Business and Finance Department that had these statements, probably built on the production of other media. This is, as I said, a unilateral decision made by the Norwegian government without formalized cooperation with anyone. With regard to the possibility of lifting the production restrictions, there is a continuing assessment by the Government. We see that the oil price is very high. Probably at least a few dollars is a war premium in relation to the situation in the Middle East, but we also see that the market is very volatile. Today we see that the oil price has been reduced by half a dollar again. So it goes up and down depending on the political conditions. Should the oil price, on the other hand, stick to an unacceptable high level, this is of course a basis for the Government to reconsider its decision on production cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e203	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e206	The IEA recommends opening up the cranes and increasing oil production as a result of the loss of Iraq’s production, thus reducing the oil price. In that case, this would be a mere statement of sympathy to Israel. In addition, there are other good arguments for a high oil price. In fact, the international price of oil is too low based on the impact of both production and consumption on the environment. In addition, a high oil price will make alternatives to oil more competitive, and new renewable energy sources will facilitate compliance with the Kyoto Protocol. Do the Councils see these political dimensions in relation to a high oil price?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e213	Yes. But it is not right that the government wants to use oil market regulation as a political weapon. I have not at all expressed myself in that direction. I also said in an earlier response to the representative, Djupedal, that the Norwegian government's decision to regulate the oil market rests on the three main pillars to which I referred. So there are no political dimensions in this. On the other hand, it would be a political act if one were now to maintain these production regulations regardless of how pricing would be in the market. It could have appeared yesterday by VG that because one would not favour one of the parties – in this case Israel – the Norwegian government would maintain the production cuts. This is not the policy of the Norwegian Government in this area. We want to avoid extreme price estimates, whether in the case of low oil prices, which have significant negative consequences, or high oil prices, which can also have significant negative consequences. It is only this that will govern the Norwegian Government's decision in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e220	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e223	I have one more question – not surprisingly – the Minister of Defence. Last Friday the government promoted the so-called implementation proposition. Conductors in the largest newspapers in the country have described the proposition by words such as ‘pure’ and ‘pure’. On the day after 9 April, I would also like to remind you that last year's Hjørres national meeting referred to the Workers' Party's similar proposition as a modern version of the 1930s 'uses used by rifles' policy. In the proposal, the Government proposes to provide funds for a four-year conversion period 2002–2005. This planning period is in accordance with the decision of the Storting. Then it becomes very strange, and I think it is alarming, that the Ministry of Defence has started work on a so-called long-term document in 2004 at the same time and without consultation with the Stortinget. Of the job formulations for the work, there are, among other things: to continue the work of saving peace operations in the defence sector and to facilitate further modernisation of the defence strength structure in line with, inter alia, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. the requirements for design in NATO. So we couldn't trust the Sem declaration. The question is then: can we rely on the Council's proposal for a framework for the four-year period and the actual work of the department to change the planning period?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e234	I perceive it to you that the representative Width's main concern was the work started on the next planning period. It is openly mentioned in the proposed implementation proposal that the Ministry remains open to push forward the next scheduled period of one year. There's one thing we can discuss with the committee, because here the Storting has the full opportunity to look at the possibility or continue with the same four-year cycles that we have today. It is quite natural that, although we are now at the beginning of this four-year period, a long-term investigation is being carried out to clarify what we may propose for the next four-year period. Both investments in defence and the structures we're going to operate on require such a long-term nature that we have projects in the Ministry of Defence that extend over both four years, eight, ten, twenty, yes, twenty-five years. There is no attempt to keep Storting's decision from last year for this four-year period – I kept saying – separate from what we are actually working on to the ordinary. It is simply a natural consequence that such long-term work begins early on in the period we are in. With regard to the proposed implementation proposal, I would like to remind you that what was the main issue at our national meeting last year was to secure a brigade presence in Trøndelag, and that was to ensure an MTB structure. It was the two main issues that emerged clearly from the country's resolution, and both of these two main issues, I believe, are well taken care of in the implementation proposal presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e243	I think it is remarkable that during this planning period a new proposition is being worked on, which is not according to the Storting decision. Int. S. No 121 for 1994-95 and subsequent long-term documents state that four-year long-term proposals should be promoted, and that is what the Government is now trying to circumvent. I would like the Council of State to confirm or demand that this long-term document contain further cuts in defence. In that case, how should the defence personnel deal with it? When we ask questions about the defence, will we then meet that we will come back to this proposition? It is also stated in the mission statement that you want to present this document for a year that is not an election year. Can the Council of State justify that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e252	Firstly, I want to make it quite clear that it is not the Ministry of Defence's goal to change the four-year planning cycle of Defence. We think having a four-year planning cycle is right. We might think that for the implementation of the structural changes taken every four years, it would have been beneficial to have the collapse decision one year earlier, i.e. the entire four-year cycle was pushed forward for a year, so that the same size that made the decision was also allowed to be included in the first follow-up year of the new plan period. We think that could be useful for a lot of reasons. I would like to emphasise again that it is the Storting that together with the Government determines which four-year cycles we are going to apply. We have no plans to remove the four-year cycle. At the same time, of course, it is necessary to look at a wide range of options for modernising the structure in place of each new four-year cycle in the planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e259	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e262	I think it sounds very interesting that the Storting should decide for the next planning period in 2004, and I would like to remind you that it was because it was election year, that the Right was unable to enter into a defence policy settlement with, among other things. Work party and the Stoltenberg government last year. Otherwise, the right eraser is not the only party that goes into adult education when it comes to government, but the jam has had an effect on the right. I also believe after listening to Width that it could be okay if the Advance Party had received that adult training. It's probably what the newspaper wrote yesterday, that reality is getting stronger on the inside of the government building than in the opposition situation on the Lion's Hill. Last year, the Right Workers' Party called the modernisation of the defence of the used rifle policy. I will raise myself above it and not call the Right Defense Proposition that is now presented, for the policy of the broken promises, but ask the Council of State if she is now prepared to cooperate with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e271	Firstly, I thank you for seeing it as a positive opportunity to accelerate the next four-year period of one year. This will, of course, not change any of the content we are now presenting for 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. That just means that 2005 will be the first year of the next period. It gives the Stortinget and the Committee the opportunity to conclude when dealing with the proposition. To the next point, about adult education, I would say the following: When it was the rhetorical right had last spring, it was primarily around the national meeting time, at the time the Workers' Party had promoted its proposition. Through the work of the Stortinget following the presentation of the proposal, the Workers' Party and the Right came close significantly. This led, among other things, to: that an MTB structure not included in the Government’s proposal came into play during the deliberations. It also meant that Brigade 12 from the Trendelag that had been taken out came in again. This meant that my predecessor Godal said in Stortinget that he was pleased that, in particular, the Right Party and the Workers' Party, through cooperation in the Committee, had reached an agreement on the vast majority of things he presented, which was adopted in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e279	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e282	No matter how many fine words the Council of State uses, she cannot explain the fact that the Right on a number of occasions before they came into government was critical of the defense proposition that the then Workers' Party government presented. It is also a fact that before this government was formed, there was a significant communication between the three parties and the Progress Party. One of the key questions raised by the Progress Party was precisely the defence and government's willingness to finance the structure. What we are now seeing is that that will is no longer present. My question to the Council of State is: Does she not realize that the party of the Advancement Party feels cheated on this issue, when one of the prerequisites for the formation of government and our willingness to say yes to the formation of government was just in the statements of the Government, in writing, that one would ensure that the financing of the adopted defence structure would happen? So now we see that this is not the case, and I want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e287	I shall be quite clear on one point: the Sem Declaration states that the Government is to finance the structure adopted by the Stortinget. This is not in line with what we have presented, because it would cost NOK 30.9 billion, and what we have presented costs NOK 29.5 billion. That's a perfectly correct description. That was a basis on which the Progress Party was based, i.e. the Progress Party interpreted it as full funding. My challenge as Minister of Defense after I joined has been to get a practical solution for the Defense. There's a gap between NOK 27.7 billion, which was presented by the previous government to the Defense, and the cost that was calculated approximately at the same time to NOK 30.9 billion. The solution I have managed to achieve is an increase of approx. 1.8 billion kroner a year in the four-year period – increased appropriations, while I have had to propose to go down somewhat on the structure. As far as further cooperation with the Advancement Party is concerned, I hope we can use the time until 19 June to reach an agreement as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e294	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e297	When I think back on Right's rhetoric about these questions, and the Council of State's own statements as late as in the oral question in November, I have to say that not the Council of State, but the Party Right should consider an apology to the Workers' Party for some of the expressions used during last year. It is not that there is a lack of economic opportunity that is the cause of what has now been done. It's a conscious priority. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is now a priority to train soldiers for international operations and to give priority to the country-based national defence. Priority is also given to reducing safety, not least at sea in the northern regions. It is a defence that is less focused on maritime areas, less focused on North Norway and less focused on national defence. Like Mr Width, I must ask the Council of States: is there any reason at all to trust the Right in Defence Policy hereafter, or is it the case that the Right's own Defence Policy spokesman said that this is a clear breach of promises and that it is just as good to recognise it as it was last time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e306	To recognize first of all that what we have presented is not 30.9 billion kroner, we are quite clear, and full funding of the Storting decision would cost 30.9 billion kroner. However, what I do not agree with Mr Arnstad's representative is that what we have presented is a significant down-priority of defence and defence of maritime areas in North Norway. On the contrary. Within the framework we have presented, we have been given full upgrades of Mtbs in the "Hauk" class and investments in new Mtbs in the "Skjold" class. We have purchased new helicopters for both the Coast Guard and the frigates, and we say that the presence of the Naval Defense in the marine areas of the north is to be increased. I haven't changed Storting's decision that Olav protection should be a base. We have said that this base should be included under Håkonswert in order to better coordinate the Mtb business. That's not the down-priority of the Naval Defense's presence in the North. The effort we have on the Heimevertet does not imply a reduction in the defense of the land.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e313	Per Roar Bredvold – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e316	In the United Kingdom of 27 March 2002, following the contents of St.prp. No 55 became known, we could read an interview with a previous defense stop from the right government party, namely Ingvald Godal, who said the following: ‘Rights have capitulated’. ‘Now only Frp is holding the scanner’. And he went on to say, ‘If the Government does not grant money in accordance with the decision of the Storting last year, this will become a danger.’ The Council of State Party entered the election campaign with the future of Defence as one of the fanatics. It was also one of the taboos during the formation of government, and the Progress Party supported this formation, among others. because of promises about the future of defence. Many of us feel weakened when it comes to predictability of the defence mission and objectives, and the future of civil and military personnel is now uncertain. Does the Council of State see these signals, and does the Council of State realize that for many of us, what was adopted on 13 June 2001 – less than a year ago here in Stortinget – was just going to give the Defense enough money for activity, now got a shot for the bow?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e331	I understand that all those who hoped for NOK 30.9 billion are disappointed. At the same time, I would not agree that this is essential for the future of defence. We are making a clear increase in defence appropriations, to the highest level since the fall of the Berlin Wall. We do this at the same time as we move funds from operation to investment. At the end of the period, we get an investment rate of 29, against 23 pst. today. These are the two main requirements for NATO member countries imposed by the NATO leadership: increased transition from operation to investment in order to reduce the technology gap towards the United States and to increase the real defence appropriations. We're doing both of these. In relation to having a competent defense, that's the height of the new NATO, we're stuck on it, and that's the quality of what we're offering. Disappointing the fact that not everything has come along is understandable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e336	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e339	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: Every year there are many breeds on the Norwegian road, both stone, soil and snow. In addition to the disadvantages caused by the connected road, the road users fear race and racial hazards. The loss of human life in the rattlesnake provides the basis for such fear. Racism is therefore both about saving human lives, creating security in people's everyday lives and preventing race from leading to a closed path. Following the tragic rasulukka in Hardanger, and also after the meeting with the National Racial Protection Group, the Minister of Transport in the media has expressed an understanding of the need for increased efforts to ensure racial security. What will the Council of States do to ensure that the expressed understanding not only becomes empty words, but also results in action? For example, the Council of State may: intend to create a mandatory race protection escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e349	Traffic safety is important for this government. I've said that many times in this room, and that also applies to the aspect of racial protection. There are many who experience their everyday life difficult because there is a danger to race. There's been a lot of work going on in many environments, to put it that way, in relation to this commitment. In 1999, an action plan on racial protection was presented, which provided for the use of DKK 2 billion for racial protection measures up to 2007. That's this plan we're working on within the racial protection area. The revised national budget will take stock of the state of play in relation to this action plan. I think it's important that we have an commitment to this. This year we're spending about 400 million. kr to various racial protection measures. This is important because we see at regular intervals that race is raging, and – what is worse – that there is life in racial accidents. That is why I think it is important that we give priority to racial protection. We do that, and now, as I say, we're going to bring a proposal to the Stortinget that shows the status of racial protection work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e358	I thank you for your answer. What's quite clear is that planar is enough of that. Governments referred to the National Racial Security Plan. People who have a high racial risk have plans for racial protection. They've given priority to the projects. The national racial protection group has pointed to over 1700 projects that should be racist. They've also calculated that to secure these projects, you'll need $15 billion. So it's going to be a little defensive when the council says that one should go through the plans you have. The plans are there. The priorities are there. What is missing is action. This also means that a person can ask questions about both the construction and the business community in the districts to live with the danger that they are constantly facing. So I want to ask the Council of State to be more specific about what will happen, except that one will go through plans that are all there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e365	I want to see it as an important task all the time to make sure that we are aware of the race challenge we have around the country. We are today. One problem we had last year was that there were no plans that were so concrete that we were able to use all the money we had for last year. We have now transferred that money to the current year. This year the plans are in place. So we can use this amount. It is quite right that the National Race Insurance Group has provided an overview of projects totalling NOK 15 billion. It says a little bit about the challenges we have. The fatal accident that occurred not long ago was even outside these projects. This means that overall in our country we have a great need for racial protection. But we also have other major road safety challenges. There are residents in other parts of the country who do not have racial challenges but who also live uncertain days because of the road safety picture where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e372	There will be follow-up questions – Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e375	We are concerned about road safety today. The Labour Party and the Center Party have asked each other their questions, and I know that the Centre Party has agreed with me when it concerns the wagon train, and I agree with the Center Party that racial protection is important. Then I think it is disappointing that we should be answered that we should get a status. Don't the council have an intention to do something else? Making up the status does not mean a life. Ras is dangerous in many ways. We have a road in Rogaland, between Bjerkreim and Byrkedal, as a geologist from the Road Directorate said was one of the worst things he'd seen. It's connected, and it's going to be connected nine to ten months a year if we don't do anything. Is it acceptable that national roads are connected for months and maybe years, or is the Council of State open to admitting extra money in situations like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e382	This Racial Protection Action Plan, which we are talking about, is based on assessments made by the Storting. This isn't something that's made without goals and meaning. It's been focused on racial protection earlier in this room, and that's what this plan is based on. Therefore, it is important that we show that we are following this plan. In particular, I would like to point out that it is important to follow the priorities of the different municipalities in relation to the other national road network, and not to take other projects ahead, as is actually the case to a large extent when it comes to prioritising the use of funds. Then one takes a chance, like a chance, that there will suddenly be extraordinary means of racial protection. I understand that this can be tempting, but if you in the different county municipalities think anything about this, you have to follow the priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e387	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e390	For parents who are worried about sending their kids through a racially dangerous area, and for business leaders who consider moving their business because they are unsure whether their transports are coming, the Council does not think that there is a work going on in many environments. Work needs to be done on the roads to improve the raspling of distances. They're free people. There is no equipment available. There are race protection plans in the current state. There were messages from Eidfjord about race before Easter, from Årdal yesterday, and in Bjerkreim and Byrkedal they have been told that the highway can only be open when it's good weather. In its time, the Storting agreed to a joint effort for those states that had many roads that still had gravel cover. It was an improvement that they got asphalt. Is the Council willing to follow up with an extra effort for those states that have a razed road?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e397	We have to focus a lot on racial protection, but I cannot close my eyes because about 300 people are killed on Norwegian roads every year. We have to make an effort in terms of road safety where we know that there is race, but also where we know that there are many common traffic accidents. We have examples that we have used funds to repair roads to help improve the road safety picture and that it has helped. As far as race is concerned, there is often talk of areas where there are not so many people, but the everyday life of these people is marked by uncertain solutions to school transport and what it should be. Yes, such things we must take inwards. What the representative here is asking is whether I can promise today what we are going to do in the budget. Of course, I can't advance what's going to be in a budget proposal, but I'm going to focus on working in relation to racial protection and in relation to road safety in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e404	Geir-Ketil Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e407	I would like to point out that, in the context of the treatment of the State budget, the Storting clearly stated in its own note that both as a security problem and as a welfare problem, racial danger can be a contributing cause of relocation from the districts and the centralisation of business. In addition, the Stortinget Government asked the Government to come back to the revised national budget with a briefing on how to implement the Racial Security Action Plan. In Stortinget, the focus has been on, and it has been clear, that race protection would be promoted and prioritised. It is expected that the Government will follow this up. I would like to show that within the divided framework – the national road framework – where the Council of State indicates that county councils may prioritise other things, it is also an ear-marked post for racial protection. And based on the leadership that Stortinget has given, I'm going to ask the State Council if she can signal that you want to bet more on racial protection in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e415	I want to do my part to focus on racial protection in the future, but it means that the county councils also do their priorities in relation to the other national road network. It does not matter what I say about it if this is not followed up locally. That is why I think this debate is timely, because this is precisely what is being put into focus. I'm assuming that the different county councils also put this in focus. I see that this could be a threat to deportation in the districts. It is important that we make a joint commitment to this, but then all the agencies and all the levels of government must agree on this commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e420	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e423	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. The Bondevik government has proposed to cut out the entire operating aid of SEK 28 million. kr to the Voluntary Shooter Service. There are 929 shooter teams and 850 shooting paths all over the country, and 400 of the tracks are used by Homeland Security. The shooter services have 170 000 members, of whom 28 000 are under the age of 21. Does the Council of State think that the value of the gunners' laws is irrelevant to defence and defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e432	No, the Minister of Defense doesn't think so. The representative of Halvorsen is quite right in saying that the volunteer shooter is very positive. It is positive that as many as possible in Norway have an active relationship with the use of weapons, and that we have people in reserve who master the use of firearms, also associated with the defence of the country. But when that's said, it's been a major challenge for us to give priority to the most important things for the future defence. At the same time, it is clear that the Voluntary Shooting Service, with 170 000 members, is a voluntary organisation similar to many other non-governmental organisations. When the defence budget does not contain posts in support of other non-governmental organisations, we have found that, in principle, support for the voluntary shooters’ services should be suspended from 2003. I would also like to add that it is right, as the representative Halvorsen says, that there are 170,000 members. If we divide the sum that we're proposing to take away from 2003 - 28 million. kr per year – for the 170 000 members, it will be 150 kr per year. Member. So it's not a dramatic sum if you distribute it to this huge mass of members. I hope, of course, that the volunteer shooter will be able to maintain his activity and form part of the important competence we have in Norway in shooting, along with hunters, HV, members of gun clubs, etc., who do not receive the same support as the shooters. I would also like to add that the Defense will continue to support the Defense Service indirectly by choosing the Chief of Defense as one of the two priority forces that receive the Defense Support in the form of a team, which helps to enable these events to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e443	I thank you for your answer. I maintain my main conclusion that the use of money for the shooter's service is a good defence case. Because in a country with so many weapons, it is important to have weapons knowledge and culture. I find the department's priorities strange when we know that a major evaluation, which has just been completed, showed that the volunteer shooter is the organisation that has the greatest impact on the defence's overall activity. What, then, is the reason why the Minister of Defence will now try this work that the Defence itself has started?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e452	It is not the defence minister's intention to oversee the work of others, on the contrary, in dialogue with the leadership of the defence, we have come up with the structural elements that we feel we can take out without directly affecting the defence capability. We believe that maintaining the highest possible level of investment in the army, sea, air and home security, as well as implementing the modernisation processes adopted, is the primary task of the defence, while supporting voluntary organisations is a secondary task which should preferably be handled today by budgets other than the defence budget. That being said, I am aware of the historical tradition of the shooters. It was created in 1893, with strong involvement of Stortinget. But I would also like to add that there is a lot that has changed in Norwegian defence since 1893, also related to which structural elements are most important for Norwegian defence today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e459	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e462	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. I'm referring to a series that's gone to the VG. Last Saturday it says: «VG examines: Moneylocks», and that 60 people will get a bridge with a price tag of well over 100 million. kr. Not that these people don't deserve a bridge, they do enough. But when the government spends so little money on road construction, I'll have the Council's view on whether she thinks there's a reasonable use of the small means versus what she's always standing for, that she'll provide racial protection, she'll provide road safety, and she's got a vision of zero killed. Isn't it better to bet on the traffic routes where there are many accidents, as on E18, and especially E6 through Eastfold and E6 through the Gudbrand valley, where we have many traffic damage, and many have been killed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e469	With regard to the specific project that was referred to here, it is a project that I do not have on my table, and that I have therefore not dealt with. It is such that priorities of funds at large are placed in this room. In each year's budget, funds are allocated mainly. And as I pointed out in relation to another question that it is important to talk about racial protection, that the individual municipalities are also consistent when prioritizing projects, it is this: if it is the case that a county municipality wants to give priority to a project in front of racial protection, then there is one thing we have to deal with. I think it is important that we prioritise good projects in this way that there are projects that involve reduced transport costs both for business and for individuals, and that transport solutions create a good environment. In some districts it may be important to implement important bridge and tunnel solutions or what they should be. I have problems commenting on this specific project, because I have not gone into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e476	I think it is rather eye-catching that the Council of State now says that such a large road project is worth over 100 million. kr is not her table. It must be completely new in the context of the Council of State. I thought that all roads were the Council's table and domain, and did not leave entirely to others. But that's okay. So the Council of State also says that it's the states that prioritise. Yes, but it's the Storting, the Government and the State Council that distribute the money to the states, and there are five states that are very vulnerable to traffic accidents, among others. Eastfold, Uppland and Hedmark, who then get too little because they have many accidents. Will she go in and prioritize the states where there are most traffic accidents, or will she continue to give money to those who have made good progress in road safety, and otherwise just let it scour and go – this is not my table?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e483	Now I didn't say my table. I said ‘on my table’, and there is a significant difference. It's not on my desk. Of course, all transportation projects are part of my table. As far as road safety is concerned, there is an area where I have a lot of focus, which I intend to focus on, and which I work with every day. I have previously signaled that precisely because of the road safety picture, I want to accelerate the development of E6 in Eastfold. I am constantly working on this. We see it in terms of plans, we see it in terms of funding, and we want to speed up because of the road safety picture, that it is an important route for the country as such. In this way, we want to signal that road safety is important, and this concrete project is an important project for the nation as such, also in terms of accessibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e494	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e497	The transport policy that we are experiencing in practice today, with amounts in the hundreds of millions of district projects, has hardly any value. If rural policy is to be pursued, it is necessary to select the projects in a country or in a region with a high value for money. And then to this with traffic safety. I'm eastfolding and I've been through the last ten years when we've had over 60 deaths on the E6, Norway's most trafficked road. If we don't get up speed now, we're going to get 30 new road drops before this road is realized as a four-field highway. Does the Council not understand that re-prioritisation of the means of roads must be a priority, so that we release so many road drops in Norway in time to come? And will she not take a clear distance from the policy pursued by these bridges, the tunnels and the roads in the districts, which have zero value?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e504	I just presented the priority in relation to the E6 in Eastfold, and I continue to do so. And when it's asked whether I'm taking a break from being in the districts, I don't – without going into the actual project. We need to use the whole country. We want people to want to live throughout the country. That is why we are implementing transport policy and transport measures around the country. I think that's right. However, it is also important that, when making transport priorities, we look at the benefits-costs of the projects. That's what I intend to do in the future, too, but I also intend to look at the impact of finding good solutions across the country. And road safety is still important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e511	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e514	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. Well under half of the male averages — i.e. well below one quarter of the total coals of all 19-year-olds – are called up for first-time service. In practice, if you have a friend of four 19-year-olds leaving high school, Kari goes to Blindern, Per goes to Trondheim to study, Lise goes to a folk high school, and the fourth person is called into protective duty. The question is: How unfair does Nils or Per feel about this? In addition, many fall off along the way. What does the government do to get the best recruits? And what kind of compensation schemes — competence, points, delecums, etc. – could the Council of State consider considering strengthening the protection and recruitment obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e523	I am pleased with this question, because it goes right into a challenge that I have taken very seriously – not least after visiting the three war schools. How do we take care of those who choose the defence as a career path, as a route of education, or who at least implement the duty of protection, and their opportunities in the further education system? How do we give them a bonus for bet? Here I am happy to inform you that I, together with Minister of Research and Education Kristin Klemet, have increased the pace of getting a clarification around, among other things. This is because it will provide credits for studies, and also that the subjects taken at the war school will be counted in a later civil education. This I think is very important. If you ignore the girls and look at the boys, in the future, it'll probably be so that about half of them start the first time. Then it's very important that it's the right half – the upper – that we really want in terms of competence and commitment. Then it must also be profitable, if not directly economic, so at least profitable in relation to a later civil career. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to say that I do not believe that all the figures given by the representative, Mr Nybakk, for how many people are implementing are entirely in line with the background figures I have received. It is still the case today that approx. 60 pst. of the boys coals meet the first day of the service, but then a part falls from the en route. 100 pst. receive a call, and approx. 60 pst. appearing on the first day. So in the course of the service, the number is reduced. But the main question's intention, how to make sure to focus more on rewarding those who actually choose this way, is a challenge I'm concerned with. And here I hope that the Education Committee will also contribute when there is a specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e534	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The last thing she said, I can join in so far. It might also be interesting to look at the female part of the 19-year-olds in the context of this. I understand it so that despite the figures mentioned by the Council of State Krohn Devold, further cuts are planned in the number of persons liable for protection. Then it might be a little interesting to challenge the Council of State on the Right said during the treatment of the defence reform last year. At that time, the Right was with, among other things, The Christian People’s Party notes that ‘the principle of the general obligation of protection will be seriously undermined by the Government’ – and at the time it was the Workers’ Party government – ‘the conversion plan for Defence is implemented’. Now I think that in this case, too, the Labour Party and the current Council of Defense can look at this issue in a context and in cooperation, so that we can give incentives to those who actually implement the duty of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e543	It is from my point of view a clear willingness to give both credits and other incentives to those who carry out the duty of protection. In terms of the level of protection, last year the Stortinget said it should be about 50 pst. That is also the policy of this government. The concrete reduction in the level of protection obligations carried out during this four-year period — a reduction from about 60 pst. the first day of the meeting to approximately 50 pst. the first day of the meeting – due to the conversions. The measure is temporary. One reason is that the defence during this conversion period has a surplus of competence. Many soldiers have been rolled without connection to any department. These can be transferred for a period of time to the defence sectors, thus reducing the need for first-time service. But this measure is therefore intended to be temporary during the conversion period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e550	There will be follow-up questions – Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e553	The Progress Party is very concerned that the number of young people who are serving the duty of protection is being reduced from year to year. And when the Government also proposes to reduce it another 10 pst., it makes the Advance Party very skeptical. It is important that as many as possible should be protected. It may be a thought to shorten the protection obligation, but so that at least as much as possible implement this obligation. The party of progress is afraid the government with its proposals will erode the duty of protection and the defence of the people. And as far as the defence of the people is concerned, the Progress Party is also skeptical about the removal of the support for the Voluntary Shooting Service. They do good youth work and thus increase their defence, defence and total defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e562	I share the interest of the Advance Party in having a first-time service that includes as much as possible. That is why I say again: I believe that about half of the boys are the level we are at, not least after the introduction of some kind of voluntary first-time service in Norway, as one can ask for exemption and rather seek community service. I also ask for understanding that during this four-year period it is temporary some purely practical challenges. One is that we need to build new garrisons in order to be able to move guardians from one place to another. We need, among other things: to release the Guards of Homeland Protection, and, as I said, we have a surplus of competence that allows this competence to be temporarily transferred to the defence sectors and thus reduce the need for first-time service. But the long-term solution lies in Homeland Security, because as the Naval Defense, Air Force and Army become smaller units with more emphasis on rapid operation and international service, Homeland Security may be the turntable that can ensure that half of the boys carry out the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e570	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e573	In the opinion of the SV, it is important to maintain a general duty of protection and to provide the most targeted and sensible service, whatever the form of service, to the vulnerable, in order to maintain a broad population's willingness to take care of land and people in a situation of crisis or war. A broad majority of the Grand Duchy has asked the Government to impose a third category of protection obligations. In St. prp. No 55 informs the Government that the Government does not want to complete this investigation work. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Government do to implement the decision of the majority of the population on a full investigation into a third category of protection obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e580	First of all, I would like to remind you that this implementation proposal has now been presented to the Committee and is being discussed there. Many of the detailed questions that have been raised in the Chamber here during the spontaneous Question Time must naturally find their solution through the committee work. In the case of a third category of protection obligations, to which the Ministry has been asked to look, there have been some fundamental objections relating to such a service, including: related to international conventions, because it may be perceived as some form of coercion when a decoupled it from the protection obligation of the Defence itself. So there's been some practical convention problems here. But this is a question that you can take time on in the committee to see if there are other alternative solutions than those that were outlined last time the Storting had this to deal with. I share at least SV's view, that as many of the boys as possible should have some kind of duty, whether it be defence, community service or other alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e587	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e592	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Åslaug Haga to the Prime Minister, is answered by the Minister of Justice. Question 2, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 11, from the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Education and Research, is taken up by the representative Signe Øye. Question 12, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Social Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from Mr Karl-Anton Swensen's representative to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 1. Question 15, from the representative Ivar Østberg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. Questions 17 and 18, from the representatives of Marit Arnstad and Odd Roger Enoksen to the Minister for Defence respectively, have been withdrawn. Question 21, from the representative of Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e621	This question, from the representative of Åslaug Haga to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e624	I allow myself to ask the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister of Justice: ‘The UN Convention on Biological Diversity is on the agenda in The Hague from 9 to 17. ==References== Patent rights and ownership of natural genetic resources will be central. Luxembourg recently demanded renegotiation of the EU Patent Directive for ethical reasons. Will the Bondevik Government support this requirement in order to help correct the very unfortunate contradiction between international legislation, represented by the Convention on Biodiversity, and regional legislation, represented by the EU Patent Directive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e633	It is well known that the EU directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions, the so-called patent directive, has been controversial in many camps. Both ethical and environmental issues have been raised in the debate, both nationally and internationally. Government parties have different views on the directive, and they have for the most part announced that they will come to terms with the matter, both in the Government and in the Stortinget. Furthermore, the Directive has been considered to be problematic in relation to the Convention on Biodiversity, in particular the Convention’s rules on the distribution of yields from genetic material back to the State of origin. This was also pointed out in the Norwegian contribution to the European Court of Justice, where Norway supported the Netherlands’ attempts to get the Directive to be ratified. The Court found that there is no direct conflict between the Patent Directive and the Biodiversity Convention. This view will also be taken by Norway. However, the Patent Directive limits the types of national measures that we can apply to comply with the Biodiversity Convention. I stress that the Biodiversity Commission is considering possible measures to achieve the objectives of the Biodiversity Convention in the field of patenting, for example. the issue of dividend distribution. I also believe it is important to continue the Norwegian bridge builder's role in the field internationally. When the Government is going to deal with the Patent Directive, we will also look closely at the ethical issues raised by Luxembourg. The Government is aware that in Luxembourg Parliament there has been a call for amendments to the Patent Directive. The Luxembourg Government has not yet made any concrete demands on this, but is, as we understand, in dialogue with other Member States on the issue. The representative of Haga is probably also aware that Germany and France have requested clarifications relating to Article 5 of the Directive on human genetic material. This is linked, for example, to: for human genes to be patented only if the function of the gene has been identified and the patent protection is limited to the application as explained in the patent application. These are also issues that the Government will carefully consider when examining the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement. Ethical aspects of biotechnology are to be assessed by the European Panel on Ethics in Science and New Technologies under the Commission, according to the Directive. The group consists of independent experts. In examining the incorporation of the Patent Directive by the Government, the Government will consider the possibility of involving Norwegian experts in this group. Not all aspects of this matter have been dealt with in the Government. When this is the case, the Government will bring the matter before the Storting and present the various aspects of the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e655	I thank you for your answer. The opposition to the Patent Directive has been an important issue – definitely for the Christian People's Party, but also for the Left. It's at least given expression to it. If Norway now incorporates this Directive into Norwegian law, Norway, with the Christian People's Party and the Left in government, will be at the forefront of integration among EU and EEA countries. So there are only five countries that have so far accepted the directive, and we are well aware that Luxembourg is considering reopening the matter. After Luxembourg has started this process, the Christian People's Party and the Left have, in my opinion, strangled the straw they need within the Government to bring about a new process, even in relation to their partner, the Right. Or is it that the Right is so dominant in government that the Christian People's Party and the Left do not have the opportunity to contribute to a new review of the directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e666	The representative asks a question that she herself has almost chosen to answer, so I will not try to contribute to the answer she herself has formulated. I will only deal with the answer I have given myself, namely that the government is reviewing the matter and will present it to the Stortinget with the different sides when you are going to do so. Then, of course, we have an obligation to look at all aspects of the case, including those affected by the representative's original questions, and those raised in my reply, in relation to what is now happening on the part of Luxembourg and other EU countries. When those questions come up, the Storting will get it done. At the same time, we will also do as the government of Stoltenberg, which initiated an official group to look at measures in the event of inclusion, look at any objections that might arise in relation to the Patent Directive. Several of the measures related to the distribution of dividends will also be discussed by the Biomangfoldlov committee, which the government of Stoltenberg set up in 2001. These are also aspects of the case that will arise when the case on the Patent Directive is brought before the Storting at the time the Government has completed its proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e673	I am very pleased that the Government is taking time to look carefully at various aspects of the issues related to the directive. For the Centre Party, there is no doubt that there is a conflict between the Patent Directive and the Biodiversity Convention. The Patent Directive involves gene robbery in conjunction with the Biodiversity Convention. In the past, Norway has clearly stated this, and has also argued that since Norway supported the Dutch case in the context of judicial proceedings, regardless of what the European Court of Justice has said, there is a contradiction here. I understand that the Minister of Justice is also following me a long way from that. If the Patent Directive were to be adopted and incorporated into Norwegian law, the Minister of Justice would actually be in a state of conflict with the law. Does this mean that in Norway in the future we will be able to have only the schizophrenic justice ministers, or how in the world can we deal with such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e680	Although I'm a social worker at education, I'm not going to try to get involved in on-board diagnostics. In parliamentary life it is such that the diagnosis of politicians is made by parliamentarians, and it is expressed in well-known forms in the Stortinge, among others. by asking questions, as is currently happening, and also by other means. What I want to confirm is that when a case has many aspects, you are actually obliged, regardless of the government, but at least when I am sitting there, to do the proceedings thoroughly and properly. Of the questions raised by the representative, we are familiar with what has been raised by the Luxembourg initiative, and we will follow it in the same way that we will follow what is also true of Germany and France. Then, the various aspects, including what the Biomangfold committee will look at, will be assessed when the matter is presented to the Stortinget in due time. Then it's free for everyone to define what kind of mental state you're in when you get there. For my part, I can say the following: the positions I take and stand for, I stand by with open vision when it's relevant, and then it's the free debate that determines what kind of state I am in both political and other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e687	Then we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e694	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Maritime Directorate has put in place special rules on the installation of so-called dry-skinned evacuation equipment on existing high-speed passenger craft. Until now, it has not been possible to obtain type-approved equipment from any of the world's equipment manufacturers who meet the requirements of the Maritime Directorate and are suitable for these vessels. The Maritime Directorate has set 30 June as the final date for installation. Will the Council of State take the initiative to postpone the deadline?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e703	Following the accident of the passenger catamaran MS ‘Sleipner’ on 26 November 1999, the ship’s life-saving appliances, including evacuation systems, became tragically focused. As a result of the accident, regulatory changes were made in the Maritime Directorate, in which parts of Chapter 8 of the International Code for High-Speed Craft were to apply not only to new ships but also to existing ships. This means that in cases where the height of the evacuation exceeds 1,5 metres, marine evacuation systems or equivalent solutions shall also be installed on existing high-speed craft. The evacuation system is aimed at dry-skinned evacuation, as it is called. That is, the evacuation is carried out in such a way that the occupants get into the life-raft without risk of landing in the sea. The amendments were adopted on 22 December 2000 after consultation with the relevant bodies. The time limit for the implementation of the measures was linked to the annual certificate date of each ship within the period from 1 April 2001 to 31. ==References== I have been informed by the Maritime Directorate that only a handful of vessels have completed their installation within the deadline, and that the reasons for this include: has been the discovery by the Maritime Directorate of several existing type-approved evacuation systems. Therefore, shipping companies have had to take time to find alternative solutions from other suppliers. Furthermore, part of the available marine evacuation systems is produced for a larger type of vessel than the group of domestic vessels concerned. This implies the need for changes and adaptations. Many companies are reluctant to choose non-type-approved solutions, partly because such solutions have occurred previously and partly because they need to be implemented through a more comprehensive testing programme, which involves higher costs. Due to the problems encountered in the installation of new evacuation equipment, last November, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs postponed the deadline, which meant that installation would be carried out on all vessels by the end of 2002. According to Gabrielsen, he should have said ‘by the end of June 2002.’ Several vessels and suppliers are now in the process of installing such life-saving equipment and are working to obtain satisfactory solutions. I am sure that the shipping companies and suppliers, in consultation with the Maritime Directorate, will be able to implement this. If it appears that it is not possible to put this in place within the prescribed time limit, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs will have to re-assess the need and requirement for further deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e716	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As far as I have gained experience, it has come to light that Koppernæs has received a type-approved equipment. However, if it is only the equipment currently type-approved to be installed on 60 speedboats, it will take two years for them to deliver this. The problem here is whether you should be forced to use one supplier or whether you could wait until the autumn. Several of the suppliers then said that they might want equipment ready, so that they could get equipment that might be adapted to their vessel. Is there currently only one supplier with type-approved equipment convenient for the Minister of Industry? It will put unnecessary pressure on shipping companies to contract equipment from only one manufacturer. I think that's very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e728	I very much agree with Swensen's starting point, that when it comes to the acquisition of goods and services, competition is important. It applies in all areas. It is an important part of the government's policy that we have a competitive situation, so that we get optimal goods at a reasonable price. It also applies to the installations to be made on these ships. That is why, as I say, a review of this deadline will be carried out, inter alia. in the light of the feedback that some equipment suppliers have now been asked to provide to the Maritime Directorate. And it's clear that if there's any sign that within a reasonable time there may be talk of getting alternatives up, there will be significant moments in assessing whether to postpone this. There is no good situation to be in that the entire Norwegian fleet has to buy these goods one special place, if that is so that we can get a competitor – or two or three – on our legs in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e733	I thank you again for the answer from the Minister of Industry. I understand that this deadline, set at 30 June, has been extended to ‘by the end of 2002,’ and that – if I understood the Minister of Industry correctly – a further extension will be considered to bring in the elements of competition, if it is not possible to achieve it in 2002. I see it as extremely unfortunate if you were to be forced to install equipment from only one supplier, equipment that is hardly as suitable for all vessels. I would see it as an advantage if the Minister of Industry took these signals and wanted to press for real competition in the delivery of this equipment, as well as for it to happen within a realistic time frame, so that we have the opportunity to take care of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e742	It is clear that there are many considerations to be taken into account by one and the same decision. It has to do with safety at sea and the safety of passengers. It has to do with having realistic timescales for shipping companies to comply with public requirements and with competition for supplies imposed by public authorities on shipping companies. For certain cross-cutting reasons, after receiving feedback from the suppliers concerned, the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs will review whether the deadline set is reasonable and realistic. But as I said, it's important both to ensure that one has the right level of safety on ships for those passengers who travel at all times, and that what we do in relation to public orders is realistic. And nothing delights the Minister of Industry or the Government more than breathing in the neck of the Stortinget to ensure that we have competition in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e760	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e767	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: ‘We continue to read in the newspapers that many commuters in the districts are dismayed by the tightening of the diet and driving allowance that has been announced. In the context of the government’s reduction of the fuel-based freight balancing subsidy, this is a district-enemying policy that will affect both individuals, municipalities and industry, including in Hedmark. What does the Government intend to do for commuters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e776	As from 1 April of this year, some changes have been made to the travel regulations for domestic travel managed by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. These changes result from the annual negotiations between the State and the main employee-side associations. The travel regulatory applies initially only to government employees, but many private companies also use the regulation. So they're doing it on a voluntary basis. The objective of the changes that have been implemented is mainly simplification and clean-up, but also involves some tightening by reducing the rate of compensation for the use of own cars. Furthermore, restrictions were introduced in the rules on duty-free driving compensation for professional driving as from 1 January 2002. These changes have no effect on commuting between home and work. commuters are people who, for work reasons, have to stay away from home. Under the tax law, commuters are deducted from additional costs due to absence from home. This provision has not been amended. Alternatively, commuters may receive compensation or benefits in kind free of tax from the employer as far as the right to deduct the same costs is concerned. These provisions have not been amended either. As of 2001, some changes were made to the provisions on the tax residence of commuters. These changes include, inter alia,: that it has been easier for single commuters to obtain commuting status even when cooking is possible at the place of residence. As regards the fuel delivery balancing system, it was removed from 1 January 2002. Moreover, the allocation has been steadily down the stairs by changing governments over several years. The reason for this was among other reasons. that the scheme had a limited price-balancing effect, according to a review by the Competition Authority. A proposal to introduce a self-financing freight balancing system was addressed by the Stortinget yesterday. The proposal did not receive a majority. Among other things, evidence that the additional costs of such a scheme will not reflect the benefits that the scheme may have. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Finance has initiated a dialogue with the oil companies on the issue of the price of fuel for dealers in different parts of the country. Fuel charges are of importance for all road transport, not least for enterprises and households in the districts. The government will point out that fuel charges have been reduced in recent years. From the first half of 2000 until now, excise duties on petrol have been reduced by around 1 kr per person. liters. For diesel, the tax reduction is slightly higher. On an annual basis, these tax reductions contribute to reducing the country’s revenue by DKK 3 billion. In this way, commuters who drive a lot of cars have achieved a great deal of savings. For 2002, tax relief has been implemented, and the Government aims at several reliefs in the coming years. We will give priority to general reductions in the tax burden that benefit large groups of taxpayers. Such general relief will also benefit commuters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e793	It's this term 'a certain tightening' for the commuters that, of course, strikes out very individually for the different groups. In addition to the fact that the commuters have the disadvantage of having to spend a lot of time in a car, the deductibility for some has actually become significantly worse. And it's the way in our society that more and more people have to commute to get to work at all, and it's about both weekly and daily commuting. TØI actually calculated that it costs between NOK 4.50 and NOK 5 per person. km to have a car, and in addition, as I mentioned, the load comes with the time they use. I would also like to stress that it is possible to use public transport in central Europe. It's not in Hedmark, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e802	I am referring to the fact that the changes agreed between government employees' organisations and their employers on travel compensation are only for government employees. Whether you want to use the tariff or not is a relationship between the employer of private enterprises and their employees. The tax provisions for commuters have not changed in a negative direction, either under this or under the previous government — rather, on the contrary, the provisions have been simplified. It – between us said – the «boiling plate», which was an unnecessary provision in its time, and on which there has been a lot of debate, it has now been removed, and it has also become easier for lone commuters to get the necessary deductions. Then you're concerned with commuters, you can certainly say that they haven't gotten any deterioration. On the contrary, they have achieved the improvements that all benefit from the reduction in petrol prices. I can probably add, and it's about general and not just commuters, but mainly a lot of others, that the reimbursement rules based on travel and absence from work have been quite complicated. That is why we have taken an initiative to clarify the simplification of the rules. A working group has been set up between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Administration with a view to simplifying these provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e809	I think that's absolutely necessary. I want to mention an example from my county. In the past, one could drive 9 000 km for a compensation of 3.20 kroner. Only then had a tax on it that exceeded NOK 2.60. Now all the driving compensation over 4000 km is taxable for what exceeds NOK 2.05. In addition, an employer’s fee is payable for all amounts above NOK 2.05. Våler municipality in Hedmark has the distribution of food to the elderly and sick, but has no remuneration for it except for the driving allowance. It is clear that for the municipality this is a situation that is not easy to deal with in everyday life. There's such an outcome that people say it's not a nice thing to live in District Norway, and that's not the Government's intention, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e816	No, it is so absolutely not! But this supplementary question was not about commuters. The rules on tax-free driving compensation for professional driving were amended by the previous government in its draft budget, with which the questioner will be well aware. They were not changed by this government. It has been a real tightening, but it does not apply to commuters, as I said in my initial answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e826	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘In my question to the Minister of Finance in the ordinary Question Time of 13 March this year concerning property taxes on power plants, the Minister of Finance stated: ‘Without going into the Municipality of Kvinesdal, it can be said that sometimes the budget allocation of the municipalities has a greater impact on both this type of tax revenue and other income than on realistic forecasts.’ What does the Council of State put in this?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e835	As I pointed out in my answer in the Question Time to which the representative of Klungland refers, the department of Ot.prp applied. No 47 for 1999-2000 that the total property tax on electricity production plants would be reduced by about 15 pst. from 2000 to 2001 as a result of the new valuation rules. The majority of the Storting accepted such a decline in the income of the Power Municipalities. The figures received by the Ministry from the Tax Directorate in retrospect show that the overall reduction in income to the Power Municipalities was roughly in this order of magnitude. As the Ministry has explained several times on the occasion of the case, the change in the property tax of individual municipalities would vary depending on the profitability of the individual power plant. The revised national budget in 2001 included: said: ‘Since the new valuation rules are based to a greater extent than before on the profitability of power generation plants, it is expected that some municipalities will receive a reduction of more than 15 p.p., especially in periods of very low power prices. Some municipalities will also receive increased income from property taxes.» Despite this, the government proposed a special allocation of 25 million. kr to power stations which received a substantial reduction in the income from property taxes resulting from the new system. So you could ask for a temporary supplement. In order to qualify for the grant, it was provided that: «The reduction in the income from property taxes on power plants must be significantly greater than the average reduction of 15 pst.»... «in order to receive grants, and any grant will cover only parts of the proceeds.» These were the premises. The size agreed with the proposal, both on an overall allocation of 25 million. kr and any compensation on the premises currently mentioned. Nevertheless, I still receive letters from some municipalities pointing out that they have reason to believe that they will receive 15 pst. reduction in their property tax income and that the Storting has assumed that no municipality will have a loss in income greater than this average of 15 pst. That is what I intended to do when I assumed that, in some cases, the budget allocation of the municipalities is more marked by wishful thinking than by realistic forecasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e856	I thank you for the answer, although it was not really an answer to my question. The Minister of Finance stated in the Questionnaire to which I referred that for this type of tax income and for other income, the budget estimate is more marked by wishful thinking than by realistic forecasts. I hope that I can get an answer to this, because we know that there are local politicians around Norway who have problems getting their budgets into port. As far as the Kvinesdal municipality is concerned, it is true that for the last year the situation was the same. Then the Municipality of Kvinesdal got compensation, and they got their budget approved by the county. Will the Minister for Finance follow up on the compensation? Does he think that the County of West Agder is also more concerned with wishful thinking than with realistic forecasts in relation to the municipal budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e863	There could probably be a lot of talk about the general tendency to maybe base certain estimates on wishful thinking, but since this question concerned income from the valuation of power plants, property taxes, I concentrated my answer on it. I believe that in the opinions of this and previous governments in the budget documents and in the decisions of the Stortingen, guidance is good enough to realistically predict expected power. It is based on this that I have answered the question, and I have nothing to add to the answer. What the County Council of West Agder had to say on this specific matter, I am not asked about. It's not under my department, and I can't answer that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e870	The power plant tax has been treated over a longer period of time in Stortinget, precisely because the Storing has taken into account assumptions that have been shown not to hit. In fact, I believe that this was up to treatment for the first time in 1995 or 1996, and then it was said by Stortinget that no municipality would lose on the conversion that was made. After the LVK and the municipalities were shown that this would actually happen, Stortinget postponed this until they decided that the municipalities would not lose more than 15 pst. But then it is that the Municipality of Kvinesdal has lost 60-70 pst. of their tax income. To transfer it to the state level, it would mean for the finance minister that he had to cut about. $40 billion in this year's government budget. Does the Minister of Finance not see the unfairness of the situation in which the Municipality of Kvinesdal has arisen? Will he follow up on beauties or compensation for the Municipality of Kvinesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e879	As I pointed out in my last reply, I base my actions on the Storting decision, as well as Mr. Klungland has been involved. The decision of the majority does not give rise to any compensation beyond the agreed amount and beyond the agreed premises, which I quoted. There is no proposal for any special scheme for the municipality of Kvinesdal. The municipality must abide by the general guidelines adopted by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e890	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘There are plans to centralise plant processing in Plant Research. One of the research environments that are planned to be affected is Planteforsk Holt Research Center in Tromsø. At the same time, the University of Tromsø is in the process of developing a new study in Arctic agriculture, and this is planned to take place in cooperation with, among others. Plant research Holt research center. Will the Council of State take action in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e899	The 2002 State budget refers to the development of the company Norsk Kornforedling A/S – now called Graminor – in plant processing in Norway. The State of the Ministry of Agriculture is one of several shareholders in Graminor AS. In addition to cereals, Graminor AS will extend its activities from 2002 to include plant processing of a number of other plant crops. An extension of Graminor’s business area takes place in close cooperation with all stakeholders – including Planteforsk, who have become a member of the company. It's just as the representative Konglevoll says, Graminor's aim is to concentrate his non-local processing activities on the Mjøs region. However, research and development tasks requiring adaptation to specific climatic conditions will continue to take place locally. It is a very small part of the business that is currently taking place at Holt, which will be affected by the establishment of Graminor. However, plant research could become an important provider of research and development services to Graminor. For Plant research's station in Tromsø, Holt, a future collaboration with Graminor, as I see it, could lead to increased opportunities and not inconveniences. Planteforsk Holt's cooperation with the University of Tromsø is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e914	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I noticed that the Council of State said that R & D tasks requiring adaptation to specific climatic conditions will continue to take place locally. The question is what this will mean more specifically. Norway is a long-term country, where agriculture operates under different geographical and biological conditions. Therefore, plant research and agricultural development research should also be conducted decentralised. Good agricultural policy and good research policy can be reconciled with good rural policy. But in this case, there is now uncertainty in the different research environments around the country. Among other things, there is concern that the new Graminor will give priority to research that is profitable on the basis of a short-term economic assessment, but not research on, for example: Multer that you run with at Holt. My first follow-up question to the Council of State is whether to initiate a good dialogue with the established environments. And: Will the Council of State aim not to weaken decentralised plant research, but to strengthen it on the contrary?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e923	I am first told that we will continue to conduct extensive plant research in Norway, fortunately. We need that because we have special circumstances that make us need to acquire our own knowledge. That's why we need a big investment in plant research spread all over the country, so that we capture all the local knowledge and have the opportunity to carry out the research that's going on. Then there is always a shortage of research resources, which means that one must give priority to important projects. But it would be totally wrong for Norwegian agriculture, which is built on clear policy assumptions, whether there should only be purely economic criteria on the basis of which to prioritise in research and what to demand of so-called R & D services. It is crucial that we be able to develop plant varieties – very often we talk about different grasses, among others. – which is adapted to Nordic conditions, which means that we need the research activities at Holt. I basically agree with the values underlying what the representative here is asking about, and I will contribute to that being the situation in the future. With that, I'm not saying that there's no need to streamline and get more out of research money within Plant Research, but we need to spread across the country and in local environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e930	I would like to thank you again for your answer. At least it is reassuring that we agree on the values on which this should be based. But as my main question shows, this is a matter that has consequences in addition to the individual workplaces and research environments involved. Researchers all over the country participate in cooperation in their region. In Tromsø, the university is now working, after there has been a case in Stortinget, to establish a new study in Arctic agriculture. This will be done in cooperation with, inter alia: Plant research at Holt. The council replied very briefly in its first answer that Planteforsk's cooperation with the University of Tromsø is firm. But it would be very unfortunate for the University of Tromsø if you now create an uncertainty, and in worst cases, the established, but still quite vulnerable, research environment that is at Holt, which is to be one of the environments on which to build this study. Will the Council of State therefore pay particular attention to this issue in the further work? I asked if the Council of State would like to have a good dialogue with the environment, and I hope he can answer that. And will the Council of State also continue to work to establish a study in Arctic agriculture at the University of Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e939	I have and will continue to have a good dialogue with these environments. I was in Tromsø last night and met primary producers who were concerned about the very question that the representative here raises. It's important and crucial. It may not be in so many areas that Nordic agriculture differs from the other issues we have, but in some areas it does. That's where it's crucial that we make sure that quality is incorporated into what's going on locally. Not least, there is a situation where part of the professional environments in primary production, but also the knowledge around it, are so small that they cannot become smaller. I will promise the representative that I will have my attention directed towards the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e947	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘State forest funds are allocated by state to the establishment of a forest and outdoor portal on the Internet. Private NORSKOG, which has previously established the portal «skoginfo.no», covers the marketing of hunting, fishing and land, etc. Forests are exempt from VAT on the marketing of hunting and fishing. What will the Council of State do to prevent State Forest from using the Community funds for setting up which have a negative impact on private operators?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e956	State Forest SF aims to create values based on its resources and to establish business activities on this basis. The organisation of outdoor activities is an important factor in the health and quality of life of the population. State forest’s work on setting up an open-air transmission channel, called iNatur, is a recognition that it is important to use new channels for nature and outdoor experiences and is the result of years of thorough analysis of the need for a digital service in this area. Statskog, the Norwegian Tourist Association, the Norwegian Mountain Government Association and the Norwegian Hunter and Fishery Association carried out this analysis together. The initiative-makers have met only positive responses from the operators and users, and also from the specialist authorities in the field: the Ministry of the Environment and the Directorate for Nature Management. In a pilot study of 700 respondents, users’ responses show that the nature of the Internet site is a very forward-looking and interesting offer to those interested in outdoor life. iNatur AS is now established and developing an online digital service to improve the availability of recreational, hunting and fishing services in Norway. iNatur shall be a market and service channel for all providers of open-air, hunting and fishing products and shall live on commissions of traded products on the portal. The service shall be provided, inter alia: booking and sale of cabins, hunting and fishing licenses. Digital map information and map sales are also an essential service. Statskog’s board has had a thorough treatment prior to the formation of iNatur, and considered the formation of this company as one of the most important and most relevant bets for Statskog. State forest thus enters and provides loans on commercial terms to iNatur AS. iNatur will go wide-ranging during the construction of the portal and invite all providers and their stakeholder organisations to use the service. It is also relevant to open up more participants in the company. Already in the pre-project, several organisations and large private operators were invited to assess the service. As the country’s largest landowner, state forest is a large provider of outdoor products and should not be cut off from the use of new instruments to disseminate these offers. The initiative of the enterprise, together with other key actors in outdoor life in Norway, has a high social value. The aim is to inspire and facilitate the use of nature by new generations. Synergy of this initiative can be a positive contribution to strengthening local nutrient development. On the basis of this briefing, I find no reason to intervene with Statskog's plans to establish a forest and land portal on the Internet. Nor can I see that this establishment has a negative impact on private operators, but on the contrary it provides the public with an expanded offer in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e973	I thank the Council of State for the answer, an answer that I am surprised to hear. The fact that State forest, or state, is now going to engage in new speculative business when there is a good private offer is difficult to understand. The portal to NORSKOG is well established, has 400 to 500 visitors daily and provides free advertising. The costs are borne by equipment suppliers. Several have tried in this market, but have failed, and there is a widespread perception that there is no room for more than one operator on this market. I find it hard to understand the argument from the Council of State. Does the Council really believe that it is acceptable for the State to enter into competition with private business in an area where there is actually room for only one operator and where the offer to sellers and buyers of the service today is free and open to all?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e978	I am absolutely convinced that the many users – and there are quite a few in this country who are users of everything we can offer for outdoors, also for the sake of the state – are happy that there are several providers here, including channels to provide services. I'm absolutely sure it's the users who serve that there are more who can channel these possibilities. We know that the purpose and tasks that the Storting has given to Statskog are precisely to use the large areas that the state owns through Statskog. They shall facilitate access to hunting, fishing and outdoor life for the people at a reasonable price. I therefore think this, as I have stated, is a good measure, and cannot understand that it should be problematic for others who offer a competing channel to send their things on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e983	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. It is, of course, possible, as the Council of State mentions, for Statskog to go in and make use of the services of the portal that already exists. What is heard by the experts in this area is that the funds that are now being established in this company where the State is a dominant player are so large that private individuals will not be able at all to go in with that kind of capital to make the corporate economic accounting equivalent. It is not to be overlooked that there are great opportunities for the private portal, which is already established and which works well, to be uncompetitive now, not on a real basis, but by injection of substantial state capital. How does the Council of State view this in line with the programme of the Left towards small businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e990	In the programme of the Left, there is a great deal of work to be done on competition between different providers, enabling users to choose and get the best possible offer. I'm not so sure if the consequences are as dramatic as the questioner here expresses. I think we could try from both sides to encourage these two actors to make links between the portals, which means that whoever finds out about one can also find out about the other and thus get a variety of different outdoor offers to choose from. I remember a very parallel situation like the representative Hedstrøm and I have been away in the past, namely when the Norwegian Tourist Council established a similar channel, also with significant public efforts. As far as I can remember, this was very strongly supported by the representative Hedstrøm. But then there were also some private actors who said no: this is dangerous for us, the situation has changed. When a lot of people get involved, there's an increase in traffic, and I think that's what everybody makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1000	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘According to VG 4 April, Professor of Agricultural Economics at the Norwegian Agricultural School Normann Anesland believes that Norwegian farmers are burdened with an agricultural bureaucracy of around 10 000 bureaucrats to manage and manage around 150 different grant schemes. According to Achesland, this has a price tag of $5 billion a year. Do the Council of State agree with these claims, and what will the Council of State do, if any, to simplify the system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1009	I do not agree with the allegations made by Professor Normann Aanesland in the newspaper article in VG 4 April. At the end of 2001, there was a total of approx. 2 800 years' work in the state agricultural management. Of these, approx. 1 350 years' work in the agricultural administration. In addition, the municipal agricultural administration comes with approx. 1000 annual works. This group is well known as agricultural bureaucrats, which then account for about half of the population. 2 350 years' worth of work. In addition, the government and municipal food administration will be approx. 1 400 years' worth of work. Thus, the total number of employees in the food and agricultural sector is 3,800 annual works, rather than 10,000 annual works, as VG wrote. Of course, the number of persons employed in the agricultural administration is linked to the number and arrangement of grant schemes. Simplification and targeting of economic instruments are being pursued. The contracting parties started a simplification process in the agricultural settlement in 2001. The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research was commissioned to make proposals for simplification and targeting of the economic instruments of agricultural policy. The report is available and will provide the parties with a basis for assessing simplifications and changes in the use of the instrument in the agricultural negotiations of the year and the coming years. This will in the long term reduce the number of annual works. In addition, the Stortinget decided to reorganise the public food management through the budget procedure in the autumn of 2001. The reorganisation involves bringing together the State Food Safety Authority, the State Agricultural Authority, the State Animal Health Authority and the Food Safety Authority, which are currently carried out by the municipal food surveillance authorities, into one State oversight. This process is well under way by the Ministry, and there are concrete objectives for improving efficiency at the current level of supervision. However, in the field of food, there has been an extension of the control and surveillance tasks that are likely to continue. Similarly, concrete efficiency targets have been set in the implementation of changes in the rights of landslides. Other measures that may be mentioned include strengthening local democracy, improving the efficiency of ICT use, i.e.: online information and electronic processing. In addition to purely improving the efficiency of the administration as measured by the number of employees, I am very concerned with the interests of citizens in meeting with the public administration. Therefore, user-friendliness, delegation and effective information are equally important considerations, which are taken into account in the reviews mentioned above and in the work done by the Government in task-sharing and delegation to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1024	I thank the Minister for the answer. It's obviously a big crack from what the Minister of Agriculture says, compared to the information the World Gang brings to its readers. I think that it would then be necessary that this information also be given to the public, so that this comes to people both for the eye and for the ear. I could imagine asking a question in addition to the Minister of Agriculture: how will the Minister of Agriculture communicate this to the Norwegian people? It is easy to create a picture of the farmer as unfree and of the fact that Norwegian agriculture is much more expensive than it needs to be, as it says in the world. There is a need for a communication that tells what is real, which I perceive the Minister of Agriculture has now described to me. What does the Minister of Agriculture want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1033	I share the opinion that the representative here expresses. Let me first say that it's possible to have two realistic thoughts in your head at the same time. On the one hand, we need to keep getting better, we need to keep trying to have less bureaucracy around agriculture, do things more efficiently, apply new technology, as I've been about. And we do. On the other hand, the debate on Norwegian agriculture and the so-called enormous bureaucracy and complexity, which is in a way cultivated around Norwegian agriculture, must take place on a realistic basis. This is not so complicated, and it is not so extensive. It's happened a lot in the right direction over many years, and we're going to keep going. But it is very important that no myths about bureaucracy and the difficulty of agriculture are created here that damage agriculture. It does not deserve Norwegian agriculture. For this reason, it will be important for us in the future – but also rather focused – to try to find out what the actual situation is, not least about the major simplification tasks we are now engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1040	Finally, I just want to say that the Minister of Agriculture seems to have a good hand with this problem. At the end of the article, Aanesland says: ‘The political focus today is on the size of the overall transfers. I think it would have been better if you had seen more about how the arrangements are and how they work." I experience the Council's answers so that's exactly what you're doing, both looking at how it works, and simplifying and making this work even better. I would like a confirmatory answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1050	Yeah, and that's what we're doing. We have a lot of projects that are going in the direction of simplification. I would also like to say that I very much agree with many of the basic values that my old teacher at the Agricultural University, Professor Anesland – who is a libertarian, and he may have managed to transfer some of those qualities as well – here is an expression of the respect that the farmer is self-employed and must have the freedom to be capable and earn money on being capable. We must never have a framework and a regulatory framework for agricultural policy that will prevent the skilled farmers from being competent and successful in doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1060	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question: ‘Oslo Police Association has requested the World Bank ABCDE conference in Oslo to be cancelled in June. The association believes it would be ‘naïve’ to believe that the demonstrations against the meeting can take place without violence and destruction. Do the Council of States share this view, and what will he do to facilitate the exercise of their democratic right to peaceful protests against the meeting by opponents of the World Bank policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1069	For example, when major international conferences are to be closed and public places are to be used. demonstrations, conflicts may arise between, inter alia. freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and other vested interests. The conflicts and dilemmas concern, inter alia: consideration of public order and lawful movement. This is why the police law provides that those who wish to use a public place for demonstration should give prior notice to the police. With regard to the concrete June conference, I would like to stress that this is not a political summit, which looks like headlines in the media seem to give the impression, but rather a research conference. The conference was held for the first time in France in 1999. The aim of the conference is to create a European platform in the debate on development issues, as a European alternative and counterbalance to the American conference held in Washington each year. The conference will be a forum for exchange of views between highly qualified researchers, politicians and representatives of civil society from Europe and from poor countries in the south. The main theme of the conference will be poverty reduction. Discussions on various issues related to this will seek advice and guidance from leading researchers on how to become more effective in the fight against poverty. If any demonstration could cause serious disturbance to public order or legitimate movement, or the way in which this is done is contrary to law, the police will either choose to intervene with regulatory measures or, ultimately, prohibit the demonstration. Police may otherwise lay down conditions for winding-up in order to prevent unrest and infringement, including ensuring that participants in demonstrations do not carry items that are suitable to threaten or cause harm. But – and that is what the representative’s main point – it is a police task to ensure that legal events can be implemented. However, it is also known from abroad that at international conferences or meetings there may be illegalities, or that initially very legitimate and very peaceful demonstrations occur species for the exercise of violence and harm. This must be taken into account by the police when planning security arrangements. Of course, the planning of any conference of such a nature also includes the provision of intelligence and experience material from similar events. This planning will continue until the start of the event. As Minister of Justice, I assume that the police in their planning assumptions both look to the fundamental right of citizens to express their opinions and to what is necessary in order to avert and possibly combat illegalities or situations that could pose a serious threat to public order. The details of the operational assessment have not been completed. For the implementation of the event and the work of the police, I do not want to comment on the arrangement in addition to this. But I want to add: everyone who is a follower of peaceful demonstrations should contribute themselves. Not least, it is important that those to whom I perceive the representative is aiming, even acting in such a way that there will be no doubt that some demonstrations are such. We know, of course, that civil and non-governmental organisations that are disciplined prevent a lot of unrest and a lot of disorder. The most important preventive element for any demonstration is that serious organizers of demonstrations establish such a norm and morality that all provocatives are actually out of play.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1091	I thank you for your answer. I want to go into the last thing that the Council of State said, precisely the prevention work. In my opinion, it is obvious that the police too must have a responsibility. We have now seen through several media releases that the Oslo Police have notified some very strict measures to deal with the situation, i.e. issues of increased arrest capacity, large stocks of pepper spray and extra forces. Even putting the Schengen Agreement out of play in order to introduce border controls has been discussed. Experience from major demonstrations in Europe in recent years suggests that this type of action does not work. If Oslo Centre is to be filled with insurrection police, it is more likely that it provides room for both sides of the city than it creates a peaceful climate for democratic opinions. What happened last year in Gothenburg was, in my opinion, a good example of this, where the unrest escalated after a number of police operations that were severely criticised by many teams. If the goal is to avoid unrest, I would like to ask the Council of State a question as to whether he thinks it is wise for the police to warn so clearly that they expect this to end in trouble.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1102	Like everyone else who is about to do difficult tasks, the police have to make a balance between what is responsible and what is normal, and what – I was saying – is to avoid naivety in relation to how individuals can act. I explained that in my answer. And that's how it's going to be planned for the event that's now going to take place. I have said that I will not come back to the details of it. But I would like to say that one thing is how you act on the part of the police and society, and I am politically responsible for it, but the other is how civil society itself acts. And I have to repeat: I think anyone who plans a demonstration in any context has to think about how to act. Let me take an example from the last few days. So it's possible with civil discipline when Bishop Steelset sees an agreement broken by a demonstration in connection with the Middle East conflict. The bishop stops. So the organizers go in and remove the one that troubles it all, because you want order and respect for the free speech. I can assure the representative that I will, of course, note and take into account all such constructive contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1111	I thank you again for the answer. I want to get hold of the last thing the Council of State says, because the impression that is being spread is that the police may not have been so good at gripping the kind of constructive contribution. So you've characterised those who are going to demonstrate, as travelling professional demonstrators, and despite the fact that there's very little evidence that this is going to be demonstrations with a lot of international protesters, the danger of atrocities for millions of dollars, etc. We know that those behind the event are organisations like the Church's Emergency Youth Organization, Nature and Youth and other organisations that have signaled that they want a strict non-violent line. I wonder if the Council of State agrees that it may be problematic that the police, in the way they have now done, express themselves and characterise political organisations and political events in a way that is unfavorable to them. And does the Council of State agree that it is now necessary for the police to engage in dialogue with the organizers of the demonstrations in order to achieve a solution that is good for all parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1120	I am not familiar with the fact that the police on a general basis have characterized peaceful demonstrators as stated here. But it is a fact that in Europe there have been travelling provocators, and there is an incredible amount of damage that can be done by travelling provocators. Police have an obligation to take it into account in any current situation. But what I said, and the police are of course deeply interested in, is that you always have to have a dialogue with people who want to act seriously, who will act properly and legally in connection with their civil rights being respected. But at the same time, the police need to be prepared for those who are looking beyond this. And what we've learned from some peaceful demonstrations, for example. in Gothenburg – and there is a lot to learn from Gothenburg – was the arrival of people who did not at all care about the peaceful organizers, to say the public. You didn't just sit outside the police, you sat outside the peaceful. Therefore, I now deliberately used a peaceful marking in front of the Stortinget in connection with the Middle East situation to mark how a demonstration management can actually contribute to creating order. Then the police's work becomes infinitely easy. But in order to ensure an open event, Norwegian police also have an obligation not to be naive. And I want to maintain the balance in the responsibility I have for these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1128	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: «BKK Net and some others are now offering account invoices. This helps many customers to avoid payment problems in the winter half when the power consumption is highest. This is a problem that several social services have pointed out. In a letter to BKK, the NVE pointed out that the offer is contrary to the measurement, settlement, etc. regulations. Does the Council of State believe that it is right for the authorities to prevent the transmission system companies from offering customers a form of payment that can help make it easier for customers to pay the electricity bill?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1137	There has been a broad political consensus that it is important to facilitate more efficient energy use and increased energy savings. The NVE regulation on measurement, billing and billing requires network companies to bill customers with expected annual electricity consumption above 8000 kWh at least every three months in arrears and on the basis of actual consumption. This requirement was introduced from 1 April 1999. In addition, the invoice from the network operators shall include a graphical comparison between the consumption of the year during the period and consumption during the same period of the previous year. The purpose of these requirements is to raise consumer awareness of their power consumption and its cost and thereby motivate consumers to use energy more efficiently. However, the demand for post-invoicing after actual consumption does not apply to small household customers, i.e. customers with expected annual power consumption below 8000 kWh can be billed in an account. For some customers with poor paying ability, higher electricity bills in the winter can be a problem. The NVE regulation therefore allows the network company to offer customers with payment problems other means of billing, e.g. a account. However, this is an exception system based on the individual assessment of the individual customer by the transmission company. In the specific case referred to here, the NVE has now ordered the BKK to cancel all of the account billing contracts that are not based on an individual assessment of the customer’s ability to pay. Since the Ministry of Oil and Energy is the Board of Appeal for this decision and the appeal period is not over, I cannot go further into the facts of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1150	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Of course, it is important to facilitate more efficient energy use and increase energy savings, but I don't think this has anything to do with payment methods. I believe that customers understand that if an increase in power consumption will also increase the cost of the power company, then the bill – when it comes – will increase. As the NVE's regulation opens up so that you can have an account payment on an individual basis, I thought this should have been done in a simpler way. It seems very bureaucratic if you want to assess the ability to pay customers. Then my conclusion is that either there must be something wrong with the practice of the legislation, or there must be something wrong with the legislation. Then my question is: if the NVE's interpretation is correct, could it be that the Council of State is taking the initiative to amend the regulations so that the BKK can continue its practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1161	I would like to stress that the regulations are based on customers being billed in arrears and in line with actual consumption, but that at individual discretion it may be opening up to invoice an account. It is this NVE has intervened against BKK, and the provisions of the regulations are in line with the Storting’s own views. The last time Enova was established, it was emphasised that it was important to facilitate more efficient energy use and increased energy saving. And it is obvious that this way of billing has provided the customer with a better overview of their own power consumption, but a billing account – for which it is opening – should be done on an individual basis. It is also according to these criteria that the ministry will assess this complaint.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1166	I find it very strange if Stortinget has meant that a network company should prevent customers from offering a payment form that can help make it easier for customers to pay the electricity bill. My point is also that if one is to assess the individual customer individually to see if he has a payment problem, it may mean that some customers might hesitate to ask for an account arrangement, even if it would have been economically reasonable for them. It will also be bureaucratic, cumbersome and labour-intensive to enter into an economic assessment of the individual customer. My question is still the same. I understand to the extent that the Council of State will not respond to it, but I hope that if this is the case, I think that I should take the initiative to review them again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1175	I do not want to go further into the complaint case in question, but on a general basis I agree with the questioner that all reasonable ways of arranging the relationship between the payer and the Internet company should be possible. But the important thing is that the network companies relate to what are the actual regulations today, and in relation to that, the NVE has intervened. It is also on the basis that the ministry has to assess this complaint.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1184	‘All gas fields contain radon. Radon has a short life cycle and is transformed into radioactive lead, deposited in piping systems and in natural gas handling equipment. Such radioactive provisions may pose a risk to workers. Several European countries are in the process of introducing maximum levels of radioactivity in natural gas. Have measurements been made in relation to the Snow White field to ensure that the gas does not give rise to radioactive waste – or is it in conflict with future European limit values?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1191	As regards the issues of radioactivity related to petroleum production, it is important to distinguish between three different issues: firstly, natural radioactive substances which can be disposed of as solids in the production equipment, secondly, radioactivity in water produced and final radioactivity in natural gas itself. I guess the representative Sørensen here is asking if there are naturally occurring radioactive nuclei like uranium, radium or radon in the natural gas from the Snow White field, that is, the last issue. However, I would also like to address the other two issues. Measurements of natural radioactivity, including radon, are made routinely when logging in search wells and during the production phase. This type of measurement was made in the Snow White field between 1981 and 1986. There are a total of 20 samples showing very low levels of normal radioactivity. The main reason for the low values of radon measured in the Snow White field can be explained by the fact that the reservoir consists of pure sandstones, a rock that most likely forms radon. As mentioned in the question, radon is degraded via several daughter products to lead-210. This substance has been detected in some installations after long production as a thin coating on the inside of production pipes and transport lines near the platform. Measurements on Norwegian continental shelf have shown very low values. In the case of the Snow White field, it is assumed that this field will not be a contributor to increased stocks of low-radioactive waste in the form of lead-210 contaminated pipes. In the case of low-radioactive deposits in general, Norway follows limit values set for EU Member States. Only small amounts of water produced from the production of gas on snow-white are expected and therefore radioactivity will be very low in this context. I would like to stress that it is important for industry and the authorities to have control and overview of the radioactive content of different production processes, including petroleum production, in order to ensure health, the environment and safety. However, as far as this particular matter is concerned, I believe that the risk of significant or problematic radioactive occurrences is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1206	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. The Council of State noted that Norway complied with the provisional maximum levels set by the EU in relation to this problem. I would like to ask the Council of State if he considers introducing Norwegian regulations on the maximum level of radioactive contamination in, for example. steel gas and surface contamination. And what levels of radioactivity does the Council of State think it appropriate for workers to be allowed to weld on or do other work on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1213	I would like to stress that it is very important that one has control of the radiation doses to which the workers on the Norwegian base are exposed and that they are kept safe below the limit which could in some way pose a health hazard. In my view, the EU's standards for this are satisfactory for us. Of course, if a Norwegian assessment were to deviate from the EU's own assessments, it is important for us to look at this, but we have no indications. In the case of radon in natural gas, which the queryer picks up, I can mention that a typical value for such radiation is 10 to 50 becquerel per. cubic meters. In the case of radon in dwellings, which is a known problem, not least in the East, the action limit for health reasons for comparison will be 200 becquerel per year. cubic meters. So, in my view, we have reassuring conditions in terms of the measurements made in the North Sea and the preparatory measurements made in the Snow White field. Of course, we'll follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1220	If I understand correctly, he thinks that the EU's provisional limit values are good enough for Norway, but that it should be further assessed whether it should be deviated in certain cases. Now we're not per. the date bound by this common EU legislation. Would it not have been okay if we had a legislation from Norway to ensure that we also have limit values for radon in natural gas? This will not least be important in relation to the after-treatment of piping systems and, where appropriate, gas ships when they expire and which could then cause a non-negligible waste problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1225	Once again, I would like to stress that the Government is very concerned about protecting the environment from radioactive contamination. This is not least the case in the sector for which I am responsible, where the Government, with the Minister for the Environment as the Minister for Environmental Protection responsible, presented the Government's view of this, among other things. in St. reported. No 12 for 2001-2002 Clean and rich seas, which will be dealt with by the Storting in a very short time. At least in the light of the measurements and assessments made by the Government regarding the offshore activity, I would like to stress that the situation in terms of radioactivity does not mean that special measures are triggered. We believe that the natural gas at Snow White will not give rise to radioactive waste in such a quantity that it would indicate health conditions that should have special attention, and that the measurements for the Snow White field are clearly below the limits considered to be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1235	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Education and Research, will be raised by the representative Signe Øye.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1238	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘In the 2002 State budget, additional funds were provided to municipalities to make travel and residence in camp schools free of charge from the autumn. Now we get messages from a lot of people that the municipalities are cutting for camp school stays. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all children receive free camp schooling during primary school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1247	The Education Act, which entered into force in the autumn of 1999, does not entitle primary school students to camp school stays or municipalities to arrange camp schools, but it opens up the possibility that part of the education may be given as camp school training. Section 2-3 of the Training Act states, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘A part of the period of instruction according to § 2-2 may be used for subjects and activities which the school and its students are well equipped, for clay school training and for training at other schools or at a workplace outside the school.’ L97 emphasises the use of outdoor and leisure activities in the context of ordinary education, where camp school can be an alternative. Thus, municipalities are relatively free to choose outdoor activities. In examining the 2002 State budget, Stortinget took the following decision: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to amend the training law so that the free principle in primary school is implemented.’ In a short time, I will put forward an odelstningsproposition that follows up the Storting's decision. In addition, 25 million were added to the 2002 State budget. DKK in the free income of municipalities, so that municipalities are able to cover the costs of teaching students in primary schools from the autumn of 2002. The measure has a full-year effect of 60 million. kr. As about 60,000 students go to camp each year, the investment will compensate the municipalities for about NOK 1000 per year. students who receive a camp school offer. In the spring of 2000, ECON carried out a survey of the different cost components related to camp school. ECON estimated that the student’s share in a camp-school stay on average was NOK 880 in 1998. Converted to 2002 crowns, the proportion on average becomes NOK 1000. The funds put into the framework should therefore be sufficient to cover the expenditure previously incurred by the students. In addition to this money, municipalities receive earmarked funds to cover the costs of teaching at the camp school. In 2002, this earmarked grant is close to 30 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1266	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now, when the Council of State says ‘in a short time’, it's very dependent on what you put in the concept of a short time. When Stortinget decided to grant these additional appropriations to the municipalities, it was a clear premise that it would benefit the children, and it was already announced at the time that changes to the training law were needed to ensure free camproom stays. Therefore, it is important that the Council of State can now confirm that when we talk about a short period of time, it is meant to be very short, so that the municipalities are clearly told that camp schools from the autumn should be free, and that the municipalities cannot have the argument that here we stop some camp schools, because this costs extra money for the municipalities, because Stortinget's intention was completely clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1273	Without giving any exact date, I can confirm that «in a short time» is now in ours, so this is very close. But I would like to say that regardless of the matter that we are going to put forward, the funds that are now made available to the municipalities are a very good argument on the part of the parents in order that it is not necessary to require excesses. But just to clarify: the school budget year is in a way an aberrant fiscal year. What we have allocated for 2002 is therefore valid from the 2002–03 school year, and that is why the amount is only 25 million. So it's going to be $60 million. kr in one year. I have even seen some cases from the newspapers where there is a discussion about this in the municipalities. Even where there is a discussion between parents and school and school level, the school budget actually confirms that from the coming school years they intend to do this without self-esteem, in the light of the allocation made by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1282	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very important that you now get the information that the Council of State now provides, that there is no doubt that the camp schools should be free from charge even from the fall. This is going to cost $60 million. kr on an annual basis – also in 2003. Then I feel that when the Council of State now says that the law will be amended, it is that the Government with the Council of State will put in $60 million. kr in the budget for 2003, so that we do not allow this matter to become a repeat in the Storting, as it has been for quite a long time, and that the appropriations are in place when the State budget comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1289	We have not finalised the budget, nor is it normal to withdraw from the budget. But let me put it this way: when the Ministry of Finance grants a first year measure, in this case a grant of 25 million. kr, then the ministry is doing very well to calculate that the full-year effect of it is 60 million. kr. So in light of that, I think we can assume that this is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1304	This question has been raised. Question 13 has already been answered. Question 14 is from Geir-Ketil Hansen to the Minister for Transport. The questioner does not seem to be present at the moment, and we move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1322	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1328	This question, addressed to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1331	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Blue Cross in Fredrikstad, which is to provide a low threshold for drug users, has been denied its application to the House Bank for loans to 30 nursing homes. This means that the project cannot be realised within a realistic cost framework. What will the Council of State do to increase the funds of the House Bank for such purposes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1340	Applications for loans for nursing homes are referred to the Kommunalbanken or other credit institutions, so I assume that the question concerns an application for a start-up grant under the Mental Health Plan from the municipality of Fredrikstad. This application was rejected by the House Bank because, within this year’s framework, there is no scope for projects of this size. The year's framework for the Plan of Ascension is limited in relation to the application we now have to Husbanken. Of the 440 nursing homes, 24 are set off for Eastfold, five of them for Fredrikstad. The framework is, as the Minister of Health informed in the Questionnaire on 6 March, distributed among the counties, among others. on the basis of population. The limited framework requires strict priority to be given to municipalities and projects. The project in question in Fredrikstad, according to what the House Bank has stated, can also be assessed under the Husbank's investment in housing for the homeless. The Blue Cross in Fredrikstad has therefore sent a new application, this time on housing grants for the construction of the relevant dwellings. The application is now for treatment at Husbanken, and I cannot therefore comment on the outcome of this treatment. The Husbank will assess this project in relation to other applications for the homeless group that the bank is dealing with. In general, housing offers for homeless top priority in the Husbank, but also here the application entry is large, and priorities are needed. The region office of the House Bank East, where Eastfold belongs, had 31.4 million before the weekend. kr in housing grants, while the project in question in Fredrikstad has applied for more than 26 million. kr in housing allowances. In the context of the fight against poverty, the Government is reviewing housing needs, among other things. for drug users in this country. Contributing to poverty reduction is a key task in the years to come. In this context, the Government will assess the need for new housing and service measures for drug users and, where appropriate, increase the framework of the HBSB loan and grant schemes to the relevant user groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1349	I thank you for the answer and hope that the House Bank's assessment of the application for funds from another pot will end up with a positive response. As of today, I know that the answer has not come. Moreover, I would just like to point out that the consequences of this government cutting down on the loan framework in the House Bank by NOK 2 billion in relation to the draft budget of the previous government are now being seen. Then it's not surprising that you get into trouble. The second is that one might need to consider a breakdown by project and not by population in the counties, so that unnecessary delays do not occur in municipalities that have the projects ready, while there may be unused funds in counties that have not yet received the projects. I hope that the Government will come up with a proposal for an increased framework, possibly a new distribution key, in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1358	First, I would like to say that I agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen that when it is now sought from a new pot, it is natural to await the outcome of that treatment. I also understand Mr. Svein Roald Hansen's wish to be able to increase the frames of the House Bank in the future, or to see the states in the context, as the representative has described. In addition to stressing the commitment of the municipal minister, namely to assess the need for new housing and service measures for drug users, including possibly increasing the framework of the Husbank loan grant schemes, I will also communicate to the municipal minister the wish to see the counties in the context, so as to avoid the existence of unused funds in one state, while there is an unmet need in another.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1365	We then go back to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1372	‘After the air carriers have coordinated their services in North Norway, the link between Bardufoss and Bodø has been closed. It means a weakened flight connection internally in the county. Will the Government contribute to ensuring the connection to the aeroplane by submitting a tender?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1379	During the summer 2002 traffic programme, airlines have chosen to close Bardufoss-Bodø links. The companies have made a commercial assessment and believe that there is not enough local travel needs on the route. Companies are free to make such changes. In the same change of route, Bardufoss has been given an increased route offer from one to three direct routes to Oslo. Since over 80 pst. of those who traveled by plane from Bardufoss in 2001 were going to Oslo or elsewhere out of Oslo, that means that a large majority of travellers have received an air service that is better than their needs. The Bardufoss region has good road connections along the E6 northwards to Tromsø and southwards to Harstad/Narvik, from which there is an air connection further to Bodø. The driving time from Bardufoss to Tromsø is about two hours, and the company NOR-WAY Bus Express runs the route. As Minister of Transport, I believe it is important to ensure that the overall transport standard is adequately respected in all parts of the country. This does not mean that it is necessarily appropriate to use public funds to maintain unprofitable routes operated by airlines, at least not as this would be likely to be at the expense of other aviation purposes. State intervention in the aviation market must be based on an overall assessment of the transport standard in each region.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1390	I understand the answer to that question that the Council of State will not contribute to the route offer being offered. Bardufoss airport serves eight-ten municipalities in Inner Troms. It is stated that there were between 25 and 30 travellers daily between Bodø and Bardufoss – that means approx. 10,000 travellers a year. I'm pointing out that it's not very long since Braathens stopped flying on Røros for commercial reasons. Then the route was immediately submitted for tender, and Mr. Onkøe got it. So I'll ask the Council of State to look at the example of Røros. I would also ask the Council of State to look at the possibility of a route between Bardufoss/Evenes and Bodø. The Nordic counties have given priority to Evenes–Bodø. It should be a route that could provide a good passenger base. So I want to ask the Council of State again if she wants to look at the moments that I've taken up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1403	On such questions, of course, I consider these kinds of issues. And in the case of e.g. Røros, the traffic base there, as far as I remember, is much larger than that between Bodø and Bardufoss. I understand that the travelers on this route think that their offer is reduced – it is not gone, but it is reduced in the sense that they are using more travel time. I can see that. But if we simultaneously look at the transport standard and compare it with the offer in other parts of the country – let's take this area – it means an increased travel time to/from the airport similar to, for example. from the Nesodden to the Gardermoen. This journey time is a challenge many face daily. Therefore, I have come to the conclusion that it will not now be appropriate to include the Bodø-Bardufoss route in a tendering procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1412	I record that the Council of State will not be involved in an effort – so the route offer in North Norway will be reduced. It is important to maintain internal communication opportunities, not least for regional policy reasons. Røros has a train offer in addition to an air connection, but it was nevertheless found appropriate to submit a tender. I think that was also true. I believe that the Council of State should have made some effort to maintain this connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1421	I can assure you that the Council of State is very concerned about these questions. I consider, of course, in this context whether such a route should be offered. I have come to the conclusion that this is not going to be offered, based on the reasoning I have now expressed. I would also like to say that the representative is completely wrong when he says that the route offer in the country is getting worse because of this. 80 pst. by the travellers, this offer from Braathens will improve as it 80 pst. shall proceed to Oslo or further from Oslo and now receive a direct flight and thus save transport costs by releasing a stopover. I want to constantly review the flight offer when such things happen. Here I have come to the conclusion that there is no basis for this route to be tendered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1432	Let's move on to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1458	These questions have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1465	«In Stavanger Aftenblad 21 March this year, it is said that soldiers who have been in international defence service almost twice as often have «environmental disorders» as most people. What will the Council of State do to improve the health of Norwegian soldiers in international service, and what follow-up can those who have served international service expect from the Defence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1472	I can assure the representative Lund that I take issues relating to health, the environment and safety very seriously, and especially focused on staff who have been in service in international operations. The background to the question is the results of the first part of a major, not completed health survey of personnel who have served internationally since 1990. The study is divided into three – a survey, a register study and a medical examination. The results of this survey are presented in Stavanger Aftenblad. The health survey report is expected to be available in October this year. Once the study has been completed, it will be handed over to the Ministry, which will assess the need for any new follow-up action. The Health Survey was launched as one of several actions following the so-called uranium case, as my predecessor, State Councillor Bjørn Tore Godal, presented in Stortinget on 18 January 2001, followed by a debate on 27 February 2001. At the same time, the Ministry of Defence decided that, as a permanent scheme, an adequate health study should also be offered one year after dimitration. This Decision is under implementation. The 1993 UNIFIL study focused on international operations and health. As a result, a number of measures have been taken for military personnel in international operations. These include a wide range of measures in both selection, pre-deployment training, follow-up during the service, health follow-up at the dissection and follow-up after graduation. I would like to stress that the measures are under continuous evaluation and improvement. There are currently two studies to monitor the health of veterans who have been particularly exposed to traumatic situations. As part of the study, we also ask the veterans how they evaluate the follow-up of the defense. The results of these studies will be available in May, and it will provide us with an opportunity for further improvements. Whether in the context of physical damage or mental sensitivities prevention or treatment, I am concerned that personnel taking up the challenge of international service should have the security of good health follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1491	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Thousands of Norwegian men and women have served in international operations. We're gonna be proud of that. They have participated in operations and assignments that have been dangerous. For this they deserve both praise and respect. Of course, service in international operations carries risks, but for that very reason it is very important that crews know the risks they face in the short and long term. This does not apply at least to the health status of personnel following the mission carried out. I therefore expect the Council of State and the Government to take this seriously and to help create maximum security among the servants, and keep the Storting informed about this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1500	I want to confirm that we should of course keep Stortinget informed. The studies I referred to in my main response will result from this, and then we have an opportunity to inform the Storting both about the results of the survey and about the practical measures taken as a natural consequence of it. I also agree with the representative's clear emphasis that when we now have a significant number of Norwegian personnel abroad at risk, it is to have a serious action plan related to the time before departure, during the service and afterwards to be absolutely sure that the health follow-up is good, crucial for the job we have to do to our people outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1510	‘Research in many countries shows that brominated flame retardants have several of the same hazardous properties as, for example, PCBs. [[BFH]] The Dutch government is now in front of other EU countries and introduces a ban on a widespread, brominated flame retardant [[TBBPA]] Will the Council of State take action to support the Dutch initiative?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1517	Brominated flame retardants are serious pollutants. They are little degradable in nature, they are collected in the food chain and can have a number of harmful effects on health and the environment. As the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik points out, these chemical substances have properties comparable to the more well-known pollutant PCBs. Research in Norway has recently shown that the levels of brominated flame retardants in blood and breast milk in the Nordics have increased sharply in the last 20 years. Although levels are not currently dangerously high, this development is of great concern. Reducing the use and release of brominated flame retardants is therefore a priority task for the Government. They are included in the list of priority substances with a national target to significantly reduce emissions of brominated flame retardants by 2010. I'm very concerned that the goal is to be achieved. Work is being done to reduce and stop emissions of brominated flame retardants both internationally and nationally. Work in the EU framework is particularly important as Norway is linked to EU chemicals legislation through the EEA Agreement. Brominated flame retardants are a group of substances containing many different substances. TBBPA denotes one of the most used of these. The Netherlands has not imposed a ban on TBPA, but on a variant of this substance called TBPA bis, commonly referred to as FR-720. The substance is used in small quantities on the European market, including: to fire-proof kitchen fans and discharge pipes made of plastic. As the SFT is aware, the substance is not used on the Norwegian market, but it cannot be excluded that it can be found in imported finished products. The Netherlands has indicated the precautionary principle as the basis for its national ban, as knowledge of the health and environmental properties of the substance is lacking. A requirement for such knowledge to exist before a chemical substance can be placed on the market is an important element of the chemical legislation under preparation in the EU. However, the Netherlands has applied such a requirement under current legislation and the EU Commission therefore contests the Dutch ban. Initially, I am in favour of the Dutch national ban, and in the channels in which Norway participates in the EU, we should influence the treatment towards keeping the ban in the Netherlands. In my opinion, it is very unfortunate to allow the increased use of ‘new’ variants of brominated flame retardants that have so far been poorly used and that we do not have sufficient knowledge of. Whether there is a basis for an equivalent Norwegian ban is currently more uncertain, as it may appear that the substance in question is not used in Norway. During this month I will receive from the SFT a proposal for an action plan to reduce emissions of brominated flame retardants. This proposal will provide a starting point for deciding the means to avoid or reduce emissions of both the so-called FR-720 prohibited by the Netherlands and other brominated flame retardants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1532	An important source of brominated flame retardants is electronic waste products. The so-called EE Regulation has long been one of Norway's best-kept secrets. The obligation to accept discarded products from sellers has been little known, and customers have been little informed about the right to return discarded products. What kind of improvements in waste treatment does the Minister see the need to reduce the emissions of BFH from electrical and electronic products?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1537	In the action plan that I will receive from the State Pollution Control Agency, it will also be an element of disposal of any products containing these substances, which is what we are going to prevent. Research results now show increasing levels of brominated flame retardants in the environment and its own bodies and confirm the importance of continued extensive research and monitoring in the field of environmental toxicity. In relation to discarding, experience in other areas, in relation to other pollutants, and how to do so, inter alia. have affected Norwegian fjords, showing that it is difficult and very expensive to clean up once severe pollutants have first been released into the wild.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1542	It is commendable that the minister showed an commitment to the matter in relation to brominated flame retardants, and we are very pleased that the plan that was also announced earlier will soon be available. But I would like to think that the minister could come up with a closer timing of when this plan will be in place to reduce the emissions of this dangerous toxin, when all the research has shown that the concentration in both blood and breast milk has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1547	As I also said in my main response to the representative Vaggen Malvik, we will work through our channels to enable the Netherlands to keep its ban. We will work to ensure that the EU directive under preparation is as offensive as possible in relation to limiting and preferably not allowing the use of brominated flame retardants, at least not the most environmentally damaging. So during this month, I will receive from the SFT a proposal for an action plan to reduce emissions. When I get the action plan on my table, we will work on it and try to implement it as quickly as possible. Because it's right, as the representative Vaggen Malvik says, we see a accumulation of these substances also in breast milk and in the human body. We have to take this seriously, and we're doing it, as opposed to what was done in the 1950s and 1960s when it was about PCB.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1564	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1570	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Many low-radioactive waste from the oil industry is currently temporarily stored several places along our coast. Among other things, in the context of the dismantling of platforms, more of this type of waste is identified. SIM Industry believes they can use a method where one achieves 98 pst. volume reduction of the waste. The remaining waste will then have a higher radiation value. The Institute of Energy Technology refuses to store the residual waste permanently in the Himdalen. Will the State Council contribute to finding permanent solutions for such waste?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1579	In the oil industry, deposits are formed in pipes and other manufacturing equipment, also known as scale, which may contain concentrated naturally occurring radioactive substances such as 226 radium and 214 lead. If the waste contains more than 10 becquerel per. grams of these substances are defined as low-radioactive waste. In the context of an investigation into possible solutions for the final disposal of low-radioactive waste — LRA — from oil and gas production, it was concluded that there was a need for a landfill for the LRA on land. The reason for this is that the reinjection of LRA already transported to the country is considered dumping and is therefore incompatible with Norway’s international legal obligations, although there is a slightly different practice in different countries. Pending a permanent deposit option, between 200 and 300 tonnes of LRA are currently temporarily and securely stored on oil bases along the Norwegian coast. The temporary permission to store the LRA in this way is given by the Straw liver. It has been pointed out that the provisional authorisations will cease when a permanent alternative exists. There are several initiatives in terms of final landfilling and/or LRA clean-up. Of these, I would like to mention the planned landfill of low-radioactive waste in Sokndal, Rogaland, where an impact assessment has been carried out under the Planning and Building Act. The investigation has been approved by the straw supplier as the responsible authority. The measure will also need to be regulated under the Radiation Protection Act in the form of an operating authorisation. The straw supplier has not yet received an application for an operating permit, but will, during the examination of any application, require the installation to hold guarantees ensuring the long-term operation and liability of the landfill. The straw supplier considers the planned landfill in Sokndal to be a good alternative to a permanent and sound solution to the scale problem. Recently, the straw supplier has received enquiries from various actors regarding the possibility of using the national low and medium-radioactive waste facility in the Himdalen for the disposal of the LRA. One of the actors is the SIM Industry, which was owned by the representative Brustad, who believes to have a technology for concentration of LRA by volume reduction of 90-99 p.m. However, the straw supplier has not received a written explanation for this technology, nor is it aware that such documentation is available. The Institute of Energy Technology – IFE – has a concession to operate the plant in the Himdalen, given by government decisions. The concession specifies that deposits containing natural radioactivity from the petroleum activity shall not be placed in the Himdalen. The concessionaire has the possibility to apply for a change of the current concession with a view to opening the use of the Himdalen as a deposit for the LRA. Such an application will need to be dealt with in detail first by the Straw Delivery as a contracting authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1594	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I think it is good that positive signals are given in relation to the need to find permanent storage facilities. But I'll say it in a way that here I think it's important that it happens at a fast pace. I believe it is important that a country such as Norway, which has criticised the Minister for the Environment, Børge Brende, for example. England in relation to Sellafield, also celebrating for its own door and as quickly as possible ensuring that we get permanent storage facilities for this type of waste, which has gradually become a quite big problem, and does not seem to decrease either in the future. What's a little unclear to me, however, is whether the Council of State thinks it's Sokndal who's most suitable here, or whether the Council of State thinks it's actually the Himdalen, or what the Council of State thinks, and not least at what rate the Council of State thinks it is. And the next is that I'm a little surprised that the method I used from Stord is not known for the Straw liver, but of course I'll bring it back to the company. I have understood that it has been known both for Straw Delivery and also for the Institute of Energy Technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1601	As I explained, we keep scales, i.e. low-radioactive products or waste, around at different landfills in the country. We should find a permanent and good solution for this. Unlike the United Kingdom, we store this on land. In fact, the United Kingdom is also talking about driving this out to sea again, which we believe is contrary to the international legal obligations we have undertaken within, among other things. different environmental conventions. So in relation to that, I think both the previous government and this government have a good conscience. We will try to find a good solution, but it is not possible for me here today to decide on a project that the straw supplier said yesterday that they have not been presented, nor have they received an application in relation to it. I spoke to them in person yesterday. These are difficult issues, which they have to go through carefully before considering such measures. Because here's the straw liver's core competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1608	I'll bring this back to the company at Stord, as I have been and visited. I think personally at least this sounds very interesting, sail if I am not a professional. What I have also noted is that Bellona supports this method and is also doing well for it. But I will take this back, so that we can make contact with the Straw Delivery, which the Straw Delivery says has not been. It is good that the Minister for the Environment also agrees that a permanent storage site for this waste is needed, which is now kept in different locations along the coast. But can I just ask again: When does the Council of State think that such a storage site should be up to date? What will the Council of State do to advance this work, and where does the Council of State think the most appropriate place to store it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1615	As I said in my first answer, this low-radioactive waste is currently temporarily and securely stored on oil bases along the Norwegian coast, which is then again approved by Straw Delivery. It is true, as it is also pointed out, that at least one needs an operating permit and an approval of the straw supplier, and the straw supplier has not received any written explanation for this technology and is not aware that such documentation is available. In relation to a permanent solution, we are now in contact with the oil industry, where Statoil has assumed a responsibility to continue working on the project in Sokndal for storage. It's one of the options that exists. Then there are other ideas that the representative Brustad thinks you should go through, and it goes without saying that if you want to analyse the other initiatives, where you have not received any applications, you have to have time to do so before you make a final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1625	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘A wolf couple in the Østerdalen takes over 40 moose during the winter months. The grey mountain couple that lives in Åmot and Rendalen are two glaring animals. The animals are equipped with transmitters and thus the researchers have reached the “kill rate” of the animals. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate that the wolf couple should kill so much elk and thus shift the ecological balance, in addition to the unrest they also create in the local population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1634	First, I would like to stress that both predators and the harvested game are part of the biodiversity in Norway. I would also like to point out that the good deer populations are the result of close cooperation between management and rightholders. The wolf's take-out of deer game is little when you see the region as a whole. In Hedmark's case, the wolf's tax on deer game in the last few years represents only a few percent of the hunters' annual hunts, also while there were two large family groups of wolves in this county. The take-off of the wolf in a cervid stock is part of the framework conditions that must be taken into account when determining the cervid quota, in line with other framework conditions, such as: those who are killed on the road and on the railway. Although the wolf’s take-off of deer game in Hedmark is small in total, I am aware that some rightholders are strongly affected by the fact that their allowances need to be greatly reduced. In addition, renting out both large and small game hunting can be difficult because hunters are skeptical about dropping their dogs into areas with wolves. After discussions with the NORSKOG and the Forest Geyser Association, a pilot project was launched in the autumn of 2001 with State rental of hunting rights in wolf areas. The Directorate for Nature Management is now evaluating this experiment. When the evaluation is available, I will assess whether this is an action to be continued in areas with family groups of wolves. The ratio between predators and harvested game will also be determined in the context of a new report of predators, which will be presented to the Storting during the next year. I understand that some people feel disturbed when large predators establish themselves in new areas. I believe that this fear can be allayed, among other things. by developing local knowledge of the individual predatory species. This is why the Ministry of the Environment has launched locally managed projects to increase knowledge of the large predators of the population. For the time being, this concerns Stor-Elvdal, Eidskog, Aurskog-Høland and Våler municipalities. The feedback we have received shows that the municipalities have consistently positive experience with these projects. On this basis, I will continue these projects in selected municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1647	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was comprehensive and informative on a general basis. But it doesn't answer to how much of the deer stock it's right to accept is lost because of the predators. The Councils of State respond, inter alia, to:«The withdrawal of the wolf from a cervid stock is part of the framework conditions that must be taken into account when determining the cervid quota.» Thus, the Council of State answers that the predators are no. 1, and then get the others to come later. At least that's not how I want it to be, so I'd like the Council to say something about it. Governments also say that the wolf’s tax represents ‘only a few percent’ in Hedmark. Hedmark is a large group, but for the areas affected, this is a major problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1654	I also said in my answer that some areas are more affected than others, but, as I also emphasised, for Hedmarks, the wolf's tax on deer game represents a few percent of the hunter's annual hunts. That's a little bit in relation to what's common to deer game. What I've been assigned by the Storting is to manage a relatively difficult area. The Storting has decided that we should have viable large predators in Norway, such as the king eagle, wolf, bear, gloupe and yerv, and when these predators are part of our biodiversity, it is clear that buffs in the outland, and also elk and deer, become part of the food supply for these groups. So let's try to make the best of this. We're trying to keep the number of predators within a proper frame. It's also the way that they have to be viable. There are difficult balances, but I have to admit that I find them difficult to see right here, because the wolf's tax only accounts for a few percent in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1665	For those who are not in it, the problem may be small, but for those who are in this area, the problem is big. It's about harvesting what nature can give, and it's also a district profile on this. Of course, I am aware that some compensation is given to those who have buffs that are affected by this, but the exploitation of e.g. hunting, recreation and all this that gives ring-effects are said little about it. We also want some predators – so that is said – but it must not be such that a small area, here a small area of Hedmark, should bear the heavy burden of having these. And that might be where the problem lies. As for the ecological balance, I now took this example of 40 elks. How many moose are there in total in this area, I can't say, but exactly these 40 are a significant number. And it's clear that once this ecological balance has been shifted and there's nothing much more deer game, the predators travel your dish. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1676	When it comes to being in the middle of it, I really feel a little like that, too! It is not one day without me answering questions related to the predatory situation. And I understand that, because those who have predators close to themselves, this feels like a big challenge. What we're trying to do is take remedial action. We have compensation arrangements. We have also been involved in renting hunting grounds that have been particularly hard hit by this, and we need an evaluation of this. But at the same time, we have to be clear that the wolf's taxation of deer game is very small in Hedmark as a whole in relation to what is taken out by ordinary hunting – that's a couple of percent – so we have to have the proportions clear to us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1685	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-10.ana.ud1277e1696	There is no record.
