ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e65	The representative, André Kukkestad, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund. For the state of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie. For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ola T. Heggem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e90	The President proposes that two presidents be elected for the Stortinges meetings this week – and considers it to be adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e95	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e100	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e108	The representative of Sylvia Brustad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e111	I would like to suggest that we facilitate the provision of two-way communications to electricity customers across the country between electricity customers, electricity suppliers and network companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e117	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e131	This case has its background in the fact that in January the Swedish Social Security Fund applied for a temporary exemption to sit with a responsible loan. An exemption was applied for because the regulations of the Swedish Social Security Fund do not explicitly allow the Swedish Social Security Fund to invest in responsible loans. It is Section 5 of the Regulation that regulates the financial instruments in which the Swedish Social Security Fund can invest. It was in connection with the restructuring of the debt in Kværner that the People's Security Fund was sitting with a responsible loan – a restructuring on which the fund felt it necessary to be involved. It is the Stortinget that, according to the popular protection laws, provides information on the Swedish Social Security Fund, and the Ministry of Finance considers that the Government does not have jurisdiction or authority to grant a derogation in cases such as this. The Ministry of Finance therefore proposes that the regulations of the People's Security Fund Section 9 be amended in such a way that the King may derogate from Section 5 in such specific cases. A co-consultant committee believes that Kværner-saka shows that the Government should be empowered to grant exemptions in such specific cases, and that the Stortinget will be briefed on the use of powers at first opportunity. The Committee therefore agrees with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e142	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2924]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e158	Document No 8:91 on the differentiation of the annual tax on motor vehicles affects one of several dilemmas of the tax system. The proposers refer to the legislation for the payment of the annual tax and point out that in some cases this means that the owner of the vehicle pays the annual tax for a longer period than the vehicle is registered. The problem arises from de-registration or wreckage, where the annual fee is not adapted precisely to the period of time during which the vehicle is actually registered and in use. However, today's system has a certain degree of periodicity, by paying half a year's fee for vehicles registered during the second half of the year, by not paying an annual fee if the vehicle has been wrecked before the due date of 15 March and by paying half a year's fee if the vehicle has been delivered for wreckage between 15 March and 1 July. The starting point is that the annual tax is a purely fiscal charge, i.e. the revenue from the levy goes directly to the treasury without any designation. The charge is not intended as a compensation for the use of the road network and does not take into account whether the vehicle is used in a small or large way. Furthermore, the charge does not take into account the different environmental characteristics, safety characteristics or other characteristics of different vehicles. Before 1978, a periodisation scheme was in force for monthly fee payments. But this system was replaced by the system we have today, including: as part of the simplification of the charging administration. That's about. 2,5 million chargeable vehicles in Norway. The annual fee is well known among the audience and has existed for many years. A differentiation would complicate the charging system. Reference is also made to the fact that a conversion as proposed will cause the loss of revenue to the State. If the conversion is to be nominally neutral, the annual fee must be increased for all. So there are good reasons to be cautious about changes in terms of those who pay the annual tax today. The Ministry of Finance, in its letter to the Committee, points out that the Ministry has the annual fee to assess. Differentiation of the annual fee so that the fee is paid for the time when the vehicle is registered is part of this assessment. Another option is to print the fee in several futures. The Ministry of Finance states that in the further follow-up of this work a balance will be made in the interests of a more flexible regulatory framework, in favour of those liable to charge, against the desire to avoid increased red tape and increased public expenditure. On the basis of the response given by the Ministry, the majority of the Finance Committee asks the Ministry to return in an appropriate form to the Stortinget with a briefing on the status of the assessment of the annual fee when it is available. It is therefore not appropriate to join a proposal which actively asks for changes to the annual vehicle tax system. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to a mistake in the setting. It is not a majority of the members of the Committee who support the proposed text, as indicated on page 2. A minority have made a different proposal in the vote, which I suppose will be explained. On behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I would like to raise the proposal that Document No. 8:91 is appended to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e186	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to, as well as made a correction in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e189	This proposal is reflected in a successive series of proposals which should preferably be dealt with in the context of the State budget so that it can be seen in a coherent manner. Now the car charges are under assessment, and the government will make a proposal for changes to the one-off fee in the state budget for next year. Similarly, the Minister of Finance, in his letter to the Committee, to which the rapporteur of the matter referred, informed that the annual tax is under assessment and that a change in the way that fees are paid for the time when the vehicle is registered is among the things under consideration. On the part of the Labour Party, we believe this is a matter that should be dealt with on the basis of such a broader assessment, and we will await the Government's proposals in this way. Therefore, on this background, let me fix a problem in the setting. In the event of an incursion from our side, the Workers' Party has come in with SV, the Center Party and the Coastal Party in the note proposing a system of geographical differentiation of the annual fee. I would therefore like to inform you that, in the vote, the Labour Party will not support this proposal, which is also the committee's recommendation in the vote. On the other hand, we will support the proposal of the three government parties that document No. 8:91 shall be annexed to the minutes, and shall request the President to pay attention to them in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e196	That's what's going to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e199	Before 1978, we had a system of monthly calculation of the annual fee and reimbursement if the vehicle was separated in the year of the fee. The current system where a full charge is paid if the vehicle is registered on 1 January and where it has to be delivered for hijacking by 15 March at the latest in order to obtain an exemption from the fee is clearly a simplification of the charging administration, but at the same time provides more unreasonable results. In particular, this applies to motorcycles and some types of cars used only in summer but also to vehicles separated for different reasons during the year without being chastised. This is confirmed in so far as the letter from the Minister of Finance of 19 April 2002. During the committee discussion, the proposal was supported only by the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. However, the Financial Committee considered an exactly equivalent proposal in the spring of 2000. At that time, the proposal was also supported by the Right, where the current Minister of Finance, the representative of the Grand Duchy, Per-Kristian Foss, was the head of the fractional division, and in a joint comment by the Progress Party, the Right, and the representative Steinar Bastesen, are as follows: ‘These members do not see that the conversion of the annual fee to a fee paid for that part of the year in which the vehicle is registered will result in administrative costs such that they cannot justify such conversion. These members would point out that a conversion of the system to the time of registration of the vehicle is to be seen as paying the owners for the months or quarters of the year in which the vehicle is registered. These members expect the Government to make estimates of administrative costs in relation to whether the payment is to be made monthly or quarterly, or whether it is to be paid as today and refunded upon application, and return to Stortinget with such an assessment.’;» When I read the letter of 19 April from Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss, it struck me that this I have read before. And I did. The letter from former Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen of 2 May 2000, which was rejected by the Right-wing Party, and the letter from Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss of 19 April 2002 are almost identical in word, with exactly the same argument. I must admit that I was cautiously optimistic about receiving support from the Minister of Finance this time, in the context of the joint statement two years ago. It's strange that Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss today believes the opposite of what he meant two years ago, and exactly what the Labour Finance Minister meant that time. I have at least not registered that something has happened that would indicate such a turnaround, other than that Per-Kristian Foss has moved into Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's office. It might not have been unreasonable if someone from the Right had said something about the background for this 180 degree reverse operation. We cannot support the proposal for a geographical differentiation. Finally, I would like to address the proposal by the Progress Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e217	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e220	As regards Document No: The 8-proposal that is now under consideration, I can join in with what has been said by the Workers' Party spokesman. We come back to the reality of the content of it. I have until today believed that the Workers' Party and the Centre agreed that we should get an investigation into a differentiation of the car fee, so that the car service in the districts could be cheaper than today. It is a pity that the Workers' Party here has changed its mind. Car maintenance is expensive, but it is considerably more expensive in the districts. When we are not able to put in place a system for resampling cargo or for resampling fuel prices, this is an option for differentiating the annual tax. A differentiation – at least as we have thought – will lead to lower charges and lower car prices in Norway. This is a proposal for a strong reduction in taxes and charges that I thought the Progress Party was concerned about. I had thought that there could be an agreement at least to have this matter resolved. I am sorry that it has not been possible this time, but the Central Party will follow up the theme later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e229	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2925]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e245	The Financial Committee has examined Document No. 8:99, proposal by Gjermund Hageseter on profit tax in common conditions. The background to the proposal is that participants in a joint venture operating, according to the tax law §§ 10-40 to 10-45, are to be regarded as a partnership and that this provision also applies to some other cooperatives where the use of the joint venture is directed towards others other than the joint ventures themselves. The logical consequence of this is that, in special cases, in the dissolution of the joint, one can be taxed without actually having made any real sale itself. The proposer sees it as unreasonable and unpredictable that one can be taxed before the sale has been made, and suggests that the law be amended in such a way that this type of situation cannot arise. The majority of the Committee in this case has been concerned with the importance and justification of the distinction between so-called net equation and gross equation of joint ventures in existing tax legislation and that certain joint ventures are treated in the same way as net like companies, while others are gross. The general rule in the Tax Act is that joint ventures that are close to the corporate form in scale and activity are net-liked to prevent borderline problems such as: that partnerships of partnerships are taxed. It is in such circumstances that one can have the fiscal positions pointed out by the proposer in his proposal. However, it is also important to point out and clarify that today’s tax regimes are such that the use of the joint venture is essential for the likeness and taxation of the joint venture. The net equation rules – which may result in the profit tax on which the proposal is based – therefore do not apply where the joint operation is used only by the joint ventures themselves. It is therefore that the net or gross equation of joint ventures depends on a specific assessment by the tax authorities on a case-by-case basis. The use of the joint venture is therefore essential for the assessment, as the Minister of Finance also points out in the letter to the committee attached to the nomination. The tax law already provides a basis for exempting specific groups from the rules on net equation, and the Minister of Finance has also clarified in his reply to the Committee, pointing out that there may be grounds to consider the practice of the common relationship for which this net equation is to be applied. Amendments to this legislation and to its practice can be implemented without legislative changes, and it is in the light that a majority of the Committee agrees with a remark to ask the Ministry to return to the Grand Duchy with an indication of the changes which it will make in its practice. The tax provisions for joint ventures in the Tax Act are not immediately comparable with those in company law, as the minority notes. And when the minority indicates as a dangerous way to remedy the situation that taxpayers themselves are to determine the tax rules applicable in relation to this type of complex transactions between owners of joint ventures, there is reason to strongly warn against it. In fact, it would be a new principle in tax law that taxpayers themselves make assessments of tax rules in complex ownership relationships with a binding effect on their own taxation. In this respect, the majority view appears to be that the Stortinge is presented with an indication of the changes to be made to the existing legislation and that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol, as a more appropriate approach to the problem described in this Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e266	The Progress Party is committed to getting a simpler and more prudent tax system than what we have today. We want a tax system where you can use resources to create values – not for tax planning. We also want a tax system where taxation is only done on gain. That's exactly what this is all about. Here we simply have a tax rule that causes taxes to be imposed without the employee receiving any kind of compensation or financial gain. Let me give you an example: a company has a value of 10 million. kr. A own 99 pst., and B own 1 pst. B wants to sell out, and A wants to buy this share for what it's worth, so $100,000. Of course, then it makes sense that B has to tax the gain, of the sum of $100,000 that he gets for his share. Most people will understand that. But what's not logical is that A, which has not sold anything, but only bought a share of $100,000, and which hasn't been richer in any way, has to tax its share of $9.9 million. kr. So this is a tax that can quickly go into both 2 and 2.5 million. kr, depending on the entry value, which is imposed without having sold anything by the company and without having received a single penny in advance. This is unimaginable. And it'll be even more unreasonable when we know that it's quite possible to adapt to these tax rules. If A, instead of buying the share itself, creates a limited liability company that is wholly owned by A, and lets the limited liability company buy that share, then one will skip taxing on its share of 9.9 million. kr. That's what's unimaginable in this, that one has a rule that's complicated, hard to know, but that one can easily adapt if one has resources to it and if one knows the rule. If one has 99 pst. of the axles of a limited liability company, and one buys the last percentage, so that does not lead to any kind of taxation of the 99 pst. one already has. I find it hard to understand that the government party wants to defend this clearly unimaginable tax rule. This is also a rule which can lead to large costs of adaptation and which is also difficult to understand. The Minister of Finance writes to the Committee in his letter that it is important to make good use of the tax rules governing such arrangements. That's right, of course. But I have received specific examples in this case that show that even business lawyers do not know the rule. It is a businessman who has contacted a lawyer to get help in a sales process, and one has not been informed about this very special rule. Obviously, when this rule is so complicated and peculiar that business lawyers don't know it, it's obviously hard for most people to know about it. Therefore, a change to the tax law at this point will make the tax law more transparent and less complicated. One will then get a fairer rule by only being taxed when you have received a gain, and it will allow taxpayers to spend their resources on value creation and less on tax planning. In the light of this review, I will re-examine the Progress Party and the proposals of the Coastal Party from the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e283	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2925]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e301	The background to this case is a proposal from Morten Lund, Odd Roger Enoxsen, Synnøve Konglevoll, Torny Pedersen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Olav Grundar Ballo, Per Erik Monsen and Kenneth Svendsen that energy supplied from alternative energy sources such as district heating, biofuels and heat pumps in the VAT law is treated equally to electricity to avoid distortions of competition in Finnmark, Troms and Nordland. A joint committee agrees with the desire for a level playing field, both on the basis of principles and on the basis of the fact that distortions of competition lead, inter alia, to distortions of competition. district heating, which would be profitable under equal conditions of competition, will be displaced for the benefit of electricity. A majority of the Committee, the Labour Party members, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party believe that equal conditions of competition can best be achieved by granting the same exemption from VAT granted for electricity, and asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget without delay the necessary legislative proposals to ensure this. The minority, the members of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, want the Government to assess the best way to ensure a level playing field, by also assessing other instruments, and to ask the Government to come back to the Storting with a proposal to that effect. I would like to make this suggestion from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e316	The representative of May Britt Vihovde has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e319	It is no secret that the Progress Party is not particularly enthusiastic about all the geographically conditional special arrangements introduced by the Storting over time. And it might seem like we're involved here in expanding a system that we're actually opposed to. What has been most important to us in this matter is the principle of non-discrimination. It would be totally unreasonable for the development of otherwise competitive district heating to stop due to the competitive advantage of a competing energy source. It is therefore the principle of equal conditions of competition that has been of crucial importance to us in the assessment of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e326	This is a very small matter in proceeds, but it is an important matter. The Committee agrees that alternative energy sources should not be discriminated against. That is the case today in North Norway, where electricity sales are exempt from VAT. Eliminating this discrimination can be made simple, by exempting VAT from the sale of heat from new renewable energy sources, or by making it very complicated, by requiring all installations to apply for annual subsidies equivalent to the VAT of Enova or others. The last option is complicated, it's unpredictable and it will lead to no one caring about expanding the energy facilities that we want to expand. The Norwegian District Heating Association has worked a long time to obtain such a VAT exemption, and they recommend the solution that the majority is now in favour of. I think it is nice that the majority have held together through the treatment. Now it's important that the government come quickly with the bill that's been called for. This is about eliminating discrimination. There is no need for a Brussels trip to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e337	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2925]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e353	Document No 8:108 concerns a proposal from Karl-Anton Swensen to adjust the fuel charges according to the price evolution of crude oil in order to raise prices and thereby provide more predictable framework conditions for transport users and businesses. The Committee is divided into a majority who propose that the proposal be rejected, and a minority, the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, who, at the Committee's reading, have put forward a two-point proposal, in line with the intentions set out in Document No. 8:108. I assume that the majority will present their views, and will concentrate my contribution on the proposal of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. Norway is completely at the top of the world in terms of excise duties on fuel, and it is not obvious that this should be the case. Compared to most other countries, Norway has large travel distances and a very widespread population, which has been a wild policy. In most parts of the country, the population is totally dependent on the private car, both in terms of work and private life. In most places, the population base is far too low to allow a collective offer to replace the private car. The high excise duties, together with other high taxes on cars and motor vehicles, increase the distance costs for those who choose to live in scattered areas and cannot be called other than poor district policies. Children’s families also have no reason to be satisfied. Even in urban areas, we do not have a public transport service that covers the transport needs of families with children. When you are going to bring and pick up children in several different places in addition to getting to work, the private car is a precious necessity. Of course, high charges are also a major problem for business. The long distance from markets of Norwegian producers means that their transport costs are far higher than those of competitors in other countries. The majority point to the suspension for several reasons in order to maintain the high rates of excise duty. It is pointed out that fuel taxes are important revenue items in the budget and that, therefore, it would create uncertainty about the country’s revenue and budgetary uncertainty to allow these revenues to fluctuate with the crude oil price. This must obviously be wrong. The proposal is exactly the opposite. When revenue from the oil sector increases, charges fall, and vice versa. This proposal will, of course, help stabilise the country's incomes, which fluctuate sharply in the event of large oil price changes. When the crude oil price rises, fuel prices increase and thus VAT revenue. Thus, the state receives both bag and bag, while consumers pay for both the increased crude oil price and the increased fee. The proposal of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party would contribute to a somewhat more stable state revenue at a slightly lower level, to the joy of consumers and industry that would get lower and relatively stable fuel prices. I note that the majority also claims that it is necessary to maintain the high level of charges because the consumer is in principle to pay the costs of car use on society, and that the Minister of Finance, by letter of 25 April, refers to the social costs, without taking into account the crucial importance of access to fast and light transport for the value creation of the country. It's going to be a completely unreasonable and incorrect way of thinking about it. My claim is that the car’s contribution to the value creation is so large that an account where the car’s positive contribution was included would show that the car pays for itself, even if we removed all car-related taxes. In addition, fuel taxes are, in fact, fiscal charges that are not earmarked for road construction, maintenance, racial protection, accident reduction measures or environmental improvement measures, but simply finance a wide range of other things on which the bulk of the population wants to spend money. I want to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e372	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e375	The politically interesting thing about this proposal must be that the Progress Party, which largely believes in what the market can do for us in most areas, is behind a proposal which, in principle – well, at least in practice – does not imply a maximum price, but a price floor on petrol and diesel, and which is designed so that what we have to have of competition in this market will disappear. For oil companies and refuelling stations there will be a good proposal, so they will not deal with this competition for customers. That, in addition, we will have a public bureaucracy that at least does not get smaller – as the Progress Party usually wants – but that gets more to do is also interesting. And now, if you're worried that most businesses and people are going to have a tighter economy because the price is rising on things you're dependent on, then you should rarely get to the payroll we've had, right that concern against the risk of interest rate rises after the summer vacation than against the prices of petrol. Then there are completely different measures and instruments to eliminate competition in the petrol market and to shift costs to the state. It may need to be done in the revised national budget and it remains to be seen whether the parties behind the proposal will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e382	The Financial Committee has examined the proposal to adjust fuel taxes to international crude oil prices. The cooperation parties and the majority of the Committee believe that such tax regulation will lead to high administrative costs which will help to increase the price of fuel for consumers. It will also impose additional administrative costs on the customs office. One of the purposes of the fuel tax is to praise the social costs that the car imposes on society. Socio-economic costs do not decrease as the price of oil increases. These costs will be approximately stable, irrespective of fuel prices. A fundamental prerequisite for a functioning market economy is that prices are changed by a change in supply and demand. A system of policy-specific prices will largely eliminate the signaling effect of prices to providers and consumers on changing market conditions. Price is an important instrument to ensure efficient use of resources. In this respect, the charging system proposed here would be very unfortunate and would involve a system that is very far from market economy thinking. It is also necessary to point out that fuel taxes are an important item of revenue in the budget. Allowing these charges to fluctuate with the oil price would create uncertainty about the income of the country and create unforeseeable budgetary constraints. The majority also show that fuel taxes have been adjusted in several budgetary procedures when there have been socio-economic reasons for doing so. This is considered to be a more efficient and predictable way of adjusting the fuel price. So if fuel taxes are to be reduced, it is simply most appropriate to take this into account in the annual tax decisions in the State budget. A charging system that adjusts fuel charges to reflect price developments in crude oil will hamper competition. Competition is an important element in reducing fuel prices to consumers. There are many reasons not to interfere with the scheme proposed by the proposers here. We therefore propose that Document No. 8:108 is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e401	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2926]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e417	We have a proposal from the representatives of Inger Enger and Morten Lund to legislate for gender-neutral pension schemes. After the proposal was put forward, there was a communication to the Stortinget that in August the Government will promote a proposal on gender neutrality in the pension scheme, and the Committee therefore chooses not to address the issues in the proposal at present, but to come back to them during the work on the alert proposal. The Committee's attitude will be that the proposal should be annexed to the Protocol. However, I would like to add for my own part that I think that the proposers address a most topical issue, to which SV has focused in all pension matters in the last few years, unfortunately without having received multiple views. Pension issues are important in achieving gender equality, and SV will place great emphasis on finding schemes that do not discriminate between women and men as pensioners, nor will it lead to female labour being more expensive than men. We see, of course, that women should receive the same pension benefits as men, and that there should of course be no difference between the pension contribution. When it's possible to legislate gender-neutral premiums in the United States, it should also be possible in Norway. The proposers also indicate that our neighbouring country Denmark has legalized gender neutrality in certain pension schemes. I'm glad that one of the government parties, the Christian People's Party, in former pension cases has had a great deal of commitment to gender-neutral contributions, and we expect that it is those who win this case internally in the government, so that the case when it comes to us to the house, actually has a proposal to legislate this. As I see it, I have great expectations for the Government's announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e430	Women make an average of 60 pst. of what men serve. It's a huge loss record for society, I mean, and it's unnecessary, and it's an unfair situation. Only some of this difference is due to the fact that there is no equal pay for equal work. One reason is that more people are in part-time, another is that more people choose typical women's girls where they are low-paid, and a third is that there are fewer women with management salaries — and that which belongs to executives' salaries. I believe that today's theme, the higher pension premium on women's employment, may mean more than the premium difference would suggest. 600 employers were asked by KLP in a survey whether they believe that the extra premium is paid by others who employ people, and 37 pst. answered yes to the question. Far fewer admitted that they did it themselves. 14 pst. they themselves put great emphasis on that question. I do not think employers know the pension costs in detail in all employment. Age also counts. But I think the gender difference means something. I just want to mention one example: if two 30-year-olds, a man and a woman, are to be guaranteed a life-long old-age pension of NOK 30 000 a year from the age of 67, then the extra premium for women is 27 pst. If the 50 years at the time of this agreement are concluded, the premium for women is 20 pst. The proposal to legislate gender-neutral pension schemes has also been put forward in order to prevent the opposite from happening, that the CLP public sector average calculation system is simply to be banned. It would be a big step in the wrong direction. In Denmark, it has been decreed that the premium calculation should be gender-neutral for certain schemes, in the United States as well. I think that's an argument for us to do that too. Here in Norway, the case now seems to have stopped against a wall of goodwill. Now, in this round, we didn't know what the parties here stand for, but the government has informed us that it's coming to Stortinget with one thing. In the newspaper yesterday, there was an article that showed that the working party women are strongly in favour of the scheme. Christian People's Party is positive, SV is positive and the Center Party is positive. So during August, we hear if the Christian People's Party has won this case internally in the Government. The private proposal of the Central Party was promoted because we wanted this treatment now. We did not know about the initiative of the Government. I do not know if our proposal triggered the letter. Today, I would like to mention that the Centre Party will take further initiatives to eliminate unfair discrimination in the labour market. When examining the revised national budget, we will propose the setting up of a public body to investigate measures for real equality between women and men in the labour market. When I mention it now, there's an invitation to other parties to join such a proposal, or maybe the government can get the Biggest in the bargain with an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e447	When promoting a Document No. Eight proposals, I think, require a certain minimum of expertise. The last speaker stated that he did not know about the initiative of the Government. This is not a government initiative. It is actually an initiative from the Stortinget. The size has asked for a sample to be set up to look at gender neutrality opportunities in occupational pension schemes. Naturally, this happened in the context of the treatment of occupational pensions. There's often context in the Big One's doing -- so here too. The committee was set up. It was named after the Kvidal Committee, after the leader of the sample. Governments tend to do it the way you follow up selections. So also does this government. That's why there's a process in this. Some issues are such that they require more than one media initiative. They actually require an investigation. The Stortinget has previously come to an end unanimously. Therefore came the Government with this initiative, as was mentioned as; we follow up what the Storting has asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e454	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2926]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e474	What this interpellation is about is whether the state should have special advantages in relation to others when money is to be collected. While private creditors have to limit themselves to a reminder fee of 52 kroner and 12 pst. interest on late payment per year. years, the country may charge a sky-high fee in some areas if the claim is not paid precisely on the due date. This applies mainly to three areas. That is the annual fee for the motor vehicle, where an additional fee of 250 kroner is charged. An additional charge for late payment of the licence fee is set at 15 pst. of broadcasting fees. And when it applies for late payment to the State Loan Fund, a 260 kroner in charge will be paid on a first-time inquiry and 360 kroner in charge on a second-time inquiry. Unlike private individuals, who only charge a reminder fee when a real reminder is made, the State may charge their fee if one is only one day late for payment, without any reminders being made. I have got the distribution section here at Stortinget to calculate how much this surcharge will be converted into annual interest if one pays one day too late. The number I want to read up here. In the case of the TV licence, the surcharge constitutes an annual interest rate of 5,470 p.m., when it relates to the annual fee for an ordinary family car of 4,028 p.m., and upon a payment of NOK 5000 to the Treasury, the annual interest rate is 1,898 p.m. Even if the annual rate of charge is lower, the more late one is, it must be assumed that these are government interest rates. It does not, of course, make it any better for the state to be a merciless money collector. The time limits shall be met. I have also received an e-mail from a social security institution that had a little problem paying the annual fee on exactly the 15th. He asked for a postponement to the 20th, because then there was a social security payment. The answer was bastant no. I also know an example where a person asked for a two-day deferral of the student loan payment until the salary came into the account. The answer was just as bastantly no. It seems that the state is of the opinion that those who do not pay have poor payment standards and are therefore to be punished. And if someone comes up with good reasons for their payment problems, they won't be listened to. If you have a weak economy and increasing payment problems, it's not better if you are exposed to the government's money collectors and the fees that come with it. Many suggest that the millions that the government accepts these fees, most of which are paid by those who already have the worst economy. The fees may therefore contribute to the worsening of the already weak economy of some. I find it hard to see the only good reason why it makes sense to keep up with these special rules. On the basis of this, it is my clear belief that this outdated scheme of special advantages to the State in the event of a collection of funds should be discontinued as soon as possible, so that the State must comply with the same rules as those applicable to private creditors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e491	This interpellance concerns two general issues relating to the recovery of certain public requirements. The first concerns my view of the fact that the additional charges in the case of non-payment of certain public claims are much higher than in the private sector. The second concerns my view that the charging rules are often practised more stringently in the public sector. I'll try to answer the questions in turn and in order. The general rule is that the debt collection law and the associated regulations govern what a creditor may charge a debtor for the costs of recovering a claim. The starting point is that, as the representative Hagesets points out, the creditor may charge up to NOK 52 for reminder fee and debt collection notice. For subsequent steps in the collection work – which is not the subject here – the second sentence applies. The collection agency law applies when the claims due are recovered, unless otherwise determined by law or law. The law applies both within and outside public activities. That the collection agency law applies unless otherwise provided, means that exceptions to the collection agency law must have been dealt with by Stortinget. The size has in several cases determined that special charging rules should apply to the recovery of public claims. For the sake of order, I mention that the rules on broadcasting fees and repayment of student loans do not fall within the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. However, the main considerations behind some of the strict rules for late payment are far from being the same. I'll come back to this question. With regard to the annual and broadcasting charges, the size of the supplement has been determined by the Storting, which is due if the claim is not paid at maturity. In the Stortingen's decision on the annual fee, it is stipulated that the annual fee that is not paid in due time is increased by 250 kroner. The size of the subscription also determines each year the amount of the broadcasting fee and its additional charge. The representative’s questions therefore largely relate to why the Storting itself has laid down specific rules in this area. With regard to the repayment of student loans in the State Loan Fund for Education, the Stortinget has been authorised by law to grant education aid to pupils and students to the Ministry to regulate special fees for late payment of the instalments. Thus, the size has assumed that the charging rules other than those laid down by the Debt Collection Act will apply in these cases, but has left the Ministry to determine the amount of the fees. The fees shall be laid down in a regulation of the Ministry of Education for each year. Any proposal to change the amount of the fees is submitted to the State budget. I understand that questions can be asked immediately by the public having obtained special arrangements and, in some cases, operating at fees that exceed the rates resulting from the debt collection regulation on late payment. However, there are issues that distinguish the public from private creditors, which require other – and stricter – rules when recovering some public claims. The public distinguishes itself from other creditors by the fact that you have no choice as to who you get into the creditor's position. You can, for example: do not refuse a person with poor ability to buy a car or TV because he or she has previously failed to pay the annual or broadcasting fee. In contrast to most other banks, the loan fund does not make any assessment of the borrower’s creditworthiness before granting a loan. Private creditors may carry out a credit assessment before granting credit. Often they also ensure their requirements by e.g. sales line, residential mortgages, suretyships, etc. The following would like to see public law requirements lowered when the bills are to be paid. It is also a fact that a large number of licensors do not pay when to do so. With regard to the annual fee, I can mention that in the current year it was sent out almost 2350 000 claims for a fee. Of these, around 240 000 were not paid in time, despite the fact that the additional fee scheme must be considered well known. I sent a reminder of approximately 196,000 claims. This resulted in considerable additional work. Since each claim in isolation is not so large, the costs of going to an ordinary debt collection agency would become so large that it would hardly be able to defend itself. I assume that a threat of interest for late payment would also not be very effective in these cases. When this is the situation, you have to have arrangements that encourage people to settle. I guess the Progress Party will have a sense of that. A system of high standardised surcharges helps people pay in time. This is also the background to the additional charging scheme. I mentioned that the department suggested in its time that the additional fee related to the annual fee was set at NOK 100, but the Stortinget increased it to NOK 250 to further stimulate and underline the importance of paying the bills at the right time. The additional charge has not been changed since it was introduced in the mid-1980s. With regard to the requirements for the annual fee and broadcasting fee, I mention that the surcharge replaces not only regular collection fees under the collection agency law, but also late payment rates. In terms of private law, the person paying too late may be charged annual interest for late payment of 12 pst. In the event of a default of the annual fee and broadcasting charge, there is no special interest for late payment, but the amount of interest may be said to be embedded in the standardised fee. This suggests that the additional charge should be higher than the rate laid down in the collection regulation. With regard to the way in which the charging rules are practised, it is a fact that public practice is strict. In the case of the annual fee, it follows from the decision to raise the levy if it has not been paid in due time. I understand that it can be angry when the annual fee is increased even if you pay shortly after the expiry date. I also understand that it can be experienced as rigid and square that it is not possible to have a deferral of payment without the additional charge being levied. There may well be good reasons to ask for such a postponement. Of course, theoretically, it would have been possible to establish arrangements in which deferral of payments could be agreed individually with each debtor. However, the question is whether it makes sense to use taxpayers' money for this. So I don't think it is. One must also take into account that a large number of debtors have a public relation and that the nature of the requirements means that one must have arrangements that specifically encourage payment in time. As mentioned above, well over 2 million claims for an annual fee are sent each year. It goes without saying that it would require considerable bureaucratic resources if each taxable person were to have the opportunity to contact the charging authorities to enter into individual payment contracts as the passport. With regard to the repayment of student loans, which usually relates to larger amounts, I mention that the Loan Fund has its own arrangements for both interest waiver and deferred payments for those who for various reasons have little to pay with. I have to add that these arrangements are more favourable than those found for similar loan schemes in any other available bank in this country. To sum up what I have said, I would like to say that I think it is necessary to have rules that stimulate public claims – which because of their special character easily end up at the bottom of the bill pile – being paid at the right time. I believe that the special fee rules of the Storting itself have provided for some such requirements, stimulates this. Given that many public bodies are often in a special position as creditors, I cannot see that it is unreasonable that higher charges should be calculated in the event of default of such claims. Payment on due date is a virtue, even in the case of fees, and one can say it is extra profitable to do so when the additional charge is saved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e523	I had actually hoped that I had received a slightly more appropriate response to the interview, but I can only take the answer to the information. I didn't think it was particularly clear why the public should have special rules, special fees and special arrangements when it comes to collection. It's easy for private people to choose who they're dealing with, more than the public to take a mortgage in a car, osb. One additional point is that the public also has a lot of opportunities to seize TV and car if the license and the annual fee are not paid. Clearly, one should encourage people to pay their bills on time. It's not a bad thing about it. But I think that when the fees and the interest rates that apply in general are good enough for the private, they should also be good enough for the public. It is such that those who have payment problems are invited to contact the creditor. There's a lot of people doing it. But then it's up to having private creditors, not public creditors. If a contact is made with a private creditor, he usually shows a willingness to defer payment for a few days until he/she has been arranged. There may be good reasons why the debtor is allowed to postpone the deadline for a few days. So when it comes to the public, one doesn't have that flexibility. I had actually hoped that the Minister of Finance would look at this a little bit, so that there was flexibility there as well. It is mentioned by the Minister of Finance that one cannot do it because there will be so many people who contact and ask for deferral of payments. Personally, you can handle this. When e.g. The power bills are to be paid, not the same rigid rules as for other public requirements, as for the three public requirements mentioned here. You can handle this in a good way. I then thought that both the TV licence, the student loan fee and the car tax should be handled in the same way, and that the same rules as for private creditors should also apply here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e536	Finally, I would like to say that there are no rules that require private creditors to negotiate with those who owe money. I have to say that the representative's hitting of reality in terms of electricity billing, I don't know. Now I've been paying my power bill for 30 years, I think, so I can say that I have some private law experience with this, and that's not my impression. If I'm going to give another example, I'll draw the representative's attention to book clubs. If you've tried to negotiate with book clubs for just one day, you're going to think of something that you can guess as on the same day – I recommend it – you'll find that practice is very rigid, not to say that it's regulated by a computer, and it's not good enough to talk to. The flexibility to which the representative refers does not seem to me to be found in the private market either. I have a certain understanding that there must in some way be a deadline. It is clear that both banks and public institutions will have to be equipped with an enormous processing apparatus, for which we others, who are trying to pay in time, have to pay for if it is to be a matter of negotiation in time. I also allowed myself to point out that there is something that separates the public from the private here: the private chooses its customers, it does not do the public. And I think that's also true. In other words, the government can't pick out those who are eligible and who may have comments after late payment. This means that the public also has to be somewhat stricter. In most areas, the public has no chance of taking a pledge. I don't know if the representative has thought of what it would be like to take a pledge in education – a kind of intellectual pledge. I don't think that's easy to practice, to say it carefully. I have to say that I also have some experience in paying study loans. It has probably happened that there have been exceedances, and I must also say that I understand that it is difficult to negotiate the day with the Loan Fund. Many complain that the Loan Fund has too much administrative costs. There is a constant pressure to reduce the administrative costs of the State Loan Fund for Education. I think it's important that we don't increase these costs, because that's going to increase the interest rate in the Loan Fund. That's why it's important for those who pay, that we keep costs down. And this is one of the costs. I understood that the representative was disappointed that the Minister of Finance did not go against Stortinget's wish for payment rules in this area. I also perceived it this way when I said that payment at maturity is a virtue, that it was a virtue you did not expect from this government. I'm sorry you were disappointed because I actually thought you had other expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e549	Several times in Stortinget, attention has been paid to the special charging scheme for public claims and what it entails, but I believe that the size of the Stortinget has been determined on a principle basis and how to proceed in terms of collection. In other words, the Storting has decided to apply special charging rules to public requirements. In order to get these requirements, we've had more angles of incidence from the Workers' Party. The amount of these fees can always be discussed, and that is what Stortinget also does at regular intervals. I want to mention three-four points that I think it is important to be aware of, as these requirements have been established. One is that the government has no choice when it's in a credit position – you don't put up with who buys a car or takes a student loan. It's a very important principle, and you shouldn't touch it, but stick to it. And, of course, no assessments of the borrower's creditworthiness are made. Anyone can buy a car. it is the car seller who decides how this should be done – and we secure a little mortgage from these private creditors. Another point that I think is also important is that public demands can easily be down-prioritized. It's often easy to push these bills, and it's probably also so that payments to the public, to the community fund, are often a matter that can be easily handled. And it's going to affect someone. I therefore believe that the additional fee policy is absolutely necessary. It's now well known, and it sharpens the willingness to pay and pay the individual. And not least: it saves the public for large sums. If we were to go into other systems, I think we had to hire a lot more people in the public bureaucracy to collect this money. As I said in the introduction, we can always discuss the size, but I think it's very important that we uphold the principle that the Storting has previously established about how we should behave here. [[The President clubs.]] And I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party is addressing this question and is really going to water down this fee scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e558	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e561	The interpellant draws a comparison in terms of late payment fees, between private claims and the claims of the State as the creditor for broadcasting fees, the annual charge for cars and the repayment of student loans to us. In its reply, the Minister of Finance has well illustrated in many ways that there are significant differences between the private and business spheres in which a risk assessment can be taken of whether an economic balance is established or not, and the State, which, in the areas of the interaction, is referred to as dealing with all those who acquire both the car and the TV/radio, thus securing itself as their creditor. In addition to what the Council of State has said, it is also apoint that, in relation to normal contractual relationships between private and public parties governed by the debt collection law, these relationships are often several times more complex and with an underlying business relationship containing several options for assessment and nuances in the relationship between the parties. It is therefore natural that delays in such circumstances are regulated differently from the contractual relationships between the State and each of us included in this interpellation. It can also be discussed whether the additional broadcasting fee and annual fee are really to be described as fees. In my view, the fact that the parties to the contract otherwise levy a reduced treatment fee on their clients governed by the collection agency law has a greater impact on pure dispatch costs, while the charges mentioned in this interpellation are purely additional charges. On top of that, there are additional charges adopted by the Storting itself during the annual budgetary procedures, and this is not formally the responsibility of the Government and the Ministry of Finance. The comparison of these large-scale surcharges in relation to ordinary charges under the Debt Collection Act is highly persistent. This is also underlined by the large amount of obligors that do not pay at maturity – over 10 pst. only in the case of broadcasting charges, as the Council of State states in its reply today. It is likely that at lower surcharges and lower collection procedures, perhaps even individual treatment in relation to payment delays, as suggested in the interpellation, the amount of defaults and payment delays may increase further. This will impose additional costs on the State in terms of collection costs and administration and, in particular, individual treatment of payment deferrals in relation to the individual’s personal finances could result in a significant increase in public administration in order to have a process carried out in a quality satisfactory manner. We have heard today the Council of State's presentation of its own way of dealing with the obligations of the State. I think we should continue to have these rules, so that more people can follow the example of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e574	The interpellant touches on an important issue in the interpellation, but mixes the cards in a way that takes focus away from what might have been interesting to discuss. The question of enforcement practices for non-payments to, for example: The country’s loan fund and the amount of the reminder fees are not the same as the issue of discrimination between private creditors and public creditors. As a result, when the interpellant shows such touching concern for private debt collection agencies, the focus is removed from what could have been a political point and could have been worth discussing, namely the situation of those who actually lack the ability to pay in relation to the requirements of public institutions. It is obvious that, for example: non-payments to the State Loan Fund are not necessarily the main cause of a problem that can be resolved with high fees, but often is simply due to a lack of ability to pay in periods when the debtor is in a difficult economic situation, such as: This applies to many young people in the establishment phase. It is then clear that charges of this magnitude can be a heavy burden on the individual, and this does not necessarily make it easier to pay. Then the question is whether they work properly at all times. So, on the SV side, we can be willing to discuss the enforcement of this regulation and the amount of these fees, but then you don't have to mix the cards in the way you do in this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e581	It is not so difficult to find many arguments that speak against the present system of things, or to find an example that today’s system may seem untimely. But the interesting question is, what is the option? Is it about letting incas Solova go into debt? Is this about credit rating, student loan guarantee, etc.? Another thing that separates these requirements from actually everyone else is the amount of demands, because it's impossible to find something that in terms of amount can be compared to the number of claims that this is about. Then it's very important to have a consistent hold, so not to make a difference. And precisely this with solidarity – that there is no difference between those who pay on time and are duty-fulfilling, and those who are not – is a bit of a challenge. I see SV's points. That's a good point: how can a person in this in a good way take care of those who really have payment problems? But at the same time one knows that if the option of today's system were to be a costly collection claim, the question was, Who will pay for it? I am afraid that if one follows incassolova, it will be more expensive for the individual who pays too late. And if it's going to smooth out on everyone, it's going to be a common cost that increases. So it's not easy to find a fair system here. In the case of the State Loan Fund, an authorisation has been granted. The goods shall act in accordance with this mandate. In principle, I believe that the Stortinget should not instruct in detail how a proxy should be exercised. Where the amount of the additional charges for late payment of the annual fee and the licence fee is concerned, the Stortinget takes a stand on this every year in the context of the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e594	First of all, I have a few comments to the Minister of Finance, which referred to book clubs and power stations and said that they had very strict arrangements – at least as strict as these three public special arrangements that we have had in mind. To that I have to say that this is not my experience. I have past experience as a legal consultant, including as a debt advisor. There was my experience that book clubs and power plants went to negotiate with, so it did not when it came to the loan box, not when it was about the car fee, nor when it was about the NRK license. That the Minister of Finance has a different private experience with the book club, we get information, but others have a different experience than the Minister of Finance. Otherwise the Minister of Finance swings up to the great heights here when he refers to how to take pledges in education. I just have to say that if this education had resulted in a job and pay, one could at least take pay cuts. But I want to replicate: how can you take a pledge in book club books, and how can you take a pledge in stream? It would be quite interesting to get an answer. What was also said here is that payment in time should not be a question of negotiation. And of course it shouldn't be. They all, most of us will pay the bills in time. Only those who wish to settle themselves will have a good reason to wait with the payment, which will contact the creditor. I think there are a lot of people who should contact the creditor, who do not. And I'm not afraid that if the same rules were to apply to the public as to the private, it would lead to a rush. I had therefore hoped that we could get a greater flexibility for the public, so it would have been possible to negotiate with the public for those who have payment problems, either temporary or long-term. I don't think it's going to be any cheaper for the public to go hard on and actually push the problems for the debtors beyond in time and thus increase the problems. I would like to say to the Lighthouse: he refers to the fact that I had shown a touching concern for the private collection agency. I have not talked about a private collection agency at all. What I'm talking about was private creditors who demand payment, who don't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e606	I don't have much to add in conclusion. I just want to say that I think it can be concluded with great confidence that a public apparatus which is more likely to be treated as an individual debtor will become a larger public apparatus. A larger public appliance will cost more than a smaller public appliance. Some people have to pay for it, either those who pay the benefits, e.g. interest in the State's loan fund, or it has to be taken over by the common fund, i.e. by means of the tax money. I think there are a lot better ways to spend tax money than to put up a bigger appliance too late for paying. In the inter-pelling debate, a few representatives have touched on the issue of debt regimes. It's actually a different theme than the interpellant travels. But I understand that part of his examples go on just that. Let me then just point out that the government has been working on changes in these circumstances and will through the Ministry of Children and Family with the first proposal that will allow the Stortinget to discuss just that. I think that might be useful, because we now have some experience in how such relationships are settled. But here too, there's a balance sheet, because someone has to pay for others not to pay. And, after all, it's still a majority who pay – a very large majority – so there's actually no easy way out of it either. But Stortinget will have an opportunity to come back to it. The representative of Nordtun initially said in the debate that the amount of the fees could be discussed. They can do so to the greatest extent, because there is an annual roll-up decision that is behind it. I just remember what I said in my first answer, that when the additional fee related to the broadcasting fee was proposed by the Government, it was proposed by the Government to NOK 100. However, Stortinget really thought it would be wise to be late for this payment, and therefore increased the additional fee for what was then a legal fee, 250 kroner, i.e. from 100 kroner – as suggested – to 250 kroner. However, it shall be added that legal fees have increased even more. The legal fee today is NOK 670. So, in this way, the fee has not been paid in relation to late paying listeners and viewers, if you were to base it. But it has obviously been the Storting's view that the government does not choose its customers. Now, being able to look at NRK is something you have a right to. We cannot opt out of those that we assume cannot pay the broadcasting fee. It also requires some more resolute collection methods – although, fortunately, we have not spoken about torpedoes in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e617	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e623	We are then ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e646	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Per Erik Monsen on behalf of the Advance Party and the Coast Party. The proposal by the Party of Presidents and the Coastal Party is being put to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for the Storting so that the annual charge on motor vehicles is paid for the time when the vehicle is registered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e670	The Committee's position and the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left are then voted on as an alternative. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:91 [[2001-2002]] Here the representative Svein Roald Hansen has asked the President to make it clear that, in the event of a mistake in the vote, it appears that the Workers' Party should be included in a majority behind the motion for a resolution. The Labour Party shall not participate and have notified its support for the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e695	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the tax law that, in the event of a change from joint to sole proprietorship, profit taxation does not take place until sales have been made.’;» An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote. The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:99 [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e719	During the debate May Britt Vihovde put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget proposals to ensure that energy supplied from alternative sources such as district heating, biofuels and heat pumps is guaranteed a level playing field with electricity in Finnmark, Troms and Nordland.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e744	During the debate Per Erik Monsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04.ana.ud41e788	There is no voting theme in case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
