ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e37	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. This shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e48	The introduction of a statutory right to the necessary health care provided within an individual fixed medical period will ensure the patient the health care they require, without undue delay. The significance of the change will be a revolution in the health system in view of the individual’s right to individual treatment and will provide the worn-out term ‘patient in the centre’ with real content. The right to treatment by private institutions or abroad at the public expense of failure to comply with the deadline will strengthen the patient’s position of power over the healthcare system and increase the security of disease treatment. Those parts of the healthcare system that have not already increased the focus on the patient and patient treatment are forced to do so. The time when patients are at risk of being considered an order reserve with little or no possibility of moving on should definitely be over, with a legal right to treatment and with real possibilities for choosing private and foreign alternatives. A faster treatment of patients will also in many cases require better and simpler treatment and reduce the risk of patients becoming dissatisfaction, which will be both a benefit for individuals and a saving for society. More rapid treatment will also be a major benefit for all national employers with sick workers in hospital queues. A similar proposal was also put forward in the examination of the Patient Rights Act in 1999, but it was voted against by the Right and the Advance Party. That's why it's extra happy that there's now a majority in this room for such a change. In the formation of the cooperative administration last autumn, the Government Declaration, also known as the Sem Declaration, clearly stated that the Government will legislate patients’ right to treatment within individual deadlines set on a medical basis. When this Document No: The 8 proposal today does not receive a majority is the reason why such a significant legislative change for patients must function as intended at the date of entry into force. Therefore, it is necessary that changes have been properly investigated in advance, so that no one, either patients or health professionals, is in doubt as to how the law should be interpreted. Patients’ confidence in treatment guarantees is at best varying, and people should be given increased confidence in health care, increased security of treatment when they need it, cannot fail to change their patient rights. We cannot adopt a law without real content, cf. the waiting list guarantee. Therefore, this absolutely necessary improvement in patient rights is not suitable for adoption on the basis of a Document No. 8 proposals, but must be subject to a process which ensures that both the proposers and the intentions of the government parties are met. The Minister of Health, in a letter to the Social Committee, has given reasons for the challenges that need to be addressed before such legislation is implemented. In particular, the Minister of Health mentions three aspects: firstly, that the present proposal abolishes the conditions for entitlement to the necessary health care, which is a central element in the priority of healthcare. ambiguity about who has the right to necessary health care may cause problems in relation to patients’ legal certainty. Secondly, the Minister of Health stresses the need to see a right to treatment abroad under certain conditions in conjunction with other arrangements abroad, in order to achieve simplification in the law and to prevent the development of further bureaucracy. Finally, the Minister of Health wishes to assess in more detail how the law is to be drafted, in particular taking into account the considerations underlying the setting of the medically justified deadline. I think it is positive that the Progress Party is impatient in this matter. We all are. However, I cannot understand how the Progress Party can conclude in its comments that the Government, by the Minister of Health, will not recommend that the Patient Rights Act be amended to give patients a legal right to treatment. Firstly, the Minister of Health clearly states in his letter to the Committee that he will present the necessary proposals for the Stortinget, which will be based on the Sem Declaration, which clearly states that a legal right to treatment should be introduced within individual time limits laid down on a medical basis. That alone should be enough to eliminate any uncertainty. Secondly, this wording of the Sem Declaration is one of the most important for the Right. And it would be quite unthinkable for the Right that this part of the government statement should not be met 100 p.m., which I also have full confidence that the Minister of Health will take care of. Therefore, the Progress Party should exchange its concerns with pleasure that there is a government that will introduce such a comprehensive and important patient right as the Right and the Advance Party have previously tried to get an impact on. But as I said, there is nothing negative about the fact that the Progress Party is impatient in this matter, and it should not be necessary for the preparation of this amendment to take too long. It should therefore be an objective to implement a legislative change in the next year. A change in patient rights, which ensures the right to treatment within a medically sound period, could, together with the new health reform, lead to a healthcare system that everyone wants, a healthcare system that treats each patient individually, and where each institution depends on effective, high-quality patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e86	As a case rapporteur for the treatment of the patient rights law in the spring of 1999, I know that such legal work as this is all about is not easy. It requires investigation and thorough treatment in both departments, government and big business. I – and the Labour Party – are strong for Norwegian patients to have clear and secure rights to specialist health services. This is an important prerequisite for achieving the improvements in health that we are now working for. When the proposers, through their proposal, want to make changes to the patient rights law, I believe that a change to the law on such a basis is becoming too crazy. I believe that we must have a better decision-making basis in Stortinget. If we are to apply a medically justified deadline, this requires a careful assessment of the content of the law itself and the legislative wording. I am also unsure whether the bill, as formulated by the proposers, can clarify who is actually entitled to the necessary health care. If it is that one should consider giving the right to treatment abroad, it requires one to see this in conjunction with other arrangements for the treatment of patients abroad that we have in part today. In sum, this implies that we must be able to afford both the necessary time and the necessary room for assessment. We're all good at that. It must also be such that a law to grant rights to Norwegian patients must be as ready as possible for patients themselves to deal with the health care system, for health professionals and for those who actually have to make assessments. I am therefore very pleased that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties agree that any change to the Patient's Rights Act requires thorough work, first of all from the Ministry and then from the Social Committee – I will assume – and then from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e97	We have already received two articles with good explanations of things that you do not want to implement. Let me begin by saying that I find the present position very special, as the majority argues and concludes against a unanimous comitology of which the majority itself is part. Initially in the vote, a unanimous opinion was expressed by a majority of the committee. The Committee follows that the Committee: ‘will underline the need to adopt an amendment to the Patient Rights Act which guarantees patients a legal right to treatment within individual time limits laid down on a medical basis. The right to treatment by private institutions or abroad at public expense if the deadline is not met will strengthen the patient’s position of power over the healthcare system and lead to greater security for disease relief’. In the following section of the vote, the majority wrote the following: ‘The proposal in its current form will create confusion as to who has the right to necessary health care, which may cause problems in relation to patients’ legal certainty.’ * This opinion was from another majority. I cannot understand this last quote in any other way than that the majority here argues against the one unanimous committee initially stated, and of which the majority parties were a part, as I have quoted. A unanimous committee therefore states that the amendment of the Patient Rights Act, as stated in the proposal, will strengthen patients' power over the healthcare system and lead to greater security for disease relief. This is a contradiction that goes far beyond my understanding. The unanimous comitology with the lead rapporteur of the case correctly concludes what the amendment to the proposal in Document No. 8:24 for 2001-2002 would lead in a positive sense to future patients. However, the comments of the majority, including the case rapporteur for the suspension, argue to the contrary. The majority’s comment is, moreover, a mere transcript of what the Minister of Health’s letter to the Social Committee dated 18 January 2002 stated as justification for not recommending the adoption of the proposal. That the right-wing rapporteur – the party that fought a battle in Odelstinget with the Progress Party at the time of the treatment of the Patient Rights Act – to get a legal text that gave legal rights to users – in this setting throws important health policy principles on the boat, is both disappointing and incomprehensible. During the examination of the Patient Rights Act of Odelstinget, the representative Annelise Höegh of the Right stated the following: ‘A Patient Rights Act shall lead patients to the operating room – not to the courtroom. The question is whether the majority's proposals will contribute to this. [[Alvheim]] Today should be historic because a patient rights law will put patients’ needs at the centre of their lives instead of political, administrative, health or economic considerations.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is precisely the vague legal objective of the majority on the right to health care that will provide the basis for actions and complaints. The majority’s entitlement to health care applies only to ‘within the capacity limits’. And that's the department that has to be able to decide by regulations...' The proposal to amend the legislative text of Document No. 8:24 is identical to the proposal in the Sem declaration chapter. 11, quoted in the Minister of Health's letter to the Committee of 18 January. Nevertheless, in the same letter to the Committee, the Minister of Health is trying to include reasons for not recommending to the Committee the adoption of the proposal. In its comments in the vote, the Progress Party rejected the Minister of Health's argument, and I am therefore not going to repeat it here. The proposal to amend the Patient Rights Act in Document No. 8:24, which – as I said – is also identical to the Sem Declaration, is the first proposal in the field of health and social affairs where the current government is put to a political test of credibility, which it now does not seem to pass. That the Christian People's Party is not interested in giving patients legal rights this time either is no surprise, as the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party were the majority last time we dealt with the right law, and were those who would not give legal rights. However, the Christian People's Party is verbally very concerned with values, not least health care values, but these values clearly do not include the right of sick people to treatment within a medically sound time frame – a better legal certainty for the weakest, in other words. Surprisingly, however, is the position taken by the Right in this position, which must be interpreted as meaning that the Right in the Health Opposition had a completely different health policy view than they now have in position. I can assure you that the Progress Party will continuously put the Sem Declaration to the test of credibility in health and social policy, as we will also do in other areas of society. And if there's too many unconvinced exams and exams, questions must be asked from the Progress Party if we're earned to have the sitting government in the future. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e146	The representative Alvheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e149	There were several indignations being mobilized here, and I am not going to participate in it. The only thing I have to clarify is that when it is said that the "unanimity" committee comes up with the following opinion, neither the SV nor the Center Party have messed up into the crowd that most of the other parties in this room seem to have come into. I don't need 10 minutes to explain the SV's vision here. As both the SV and the Central Party state, we will support a strengthening of the Patient Rights Act which guarantees patients a legal right to treatment within individual deadlines set on a medical basis. But – and that is an important but – we agree with the Minister of Health that it needs to be better investigated and organised, as he states in his letter of 18 January 2002, before implementing the legislative change itself. What we also want, but on which we have unfortunately not received a majority, is to explore the resource needs of the public health system, so that a statutory right to treatment can be respected within individual deadlines and can be real to all. It is a proposal that we have in this document, and that I will be promoting on behalf of the SV and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e159	The representative of Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e162	The Sem Declaration states in terms of patient rights: ‘Co-operation management will legislate patients’ right to treatment within individual deadlines set on a medical basis. If the deadline is not met, the patient shall be offered treatment by private institutions or abroad for the account of the public. The patient bridge to the rest of the world is being continued.The co-operation administration will improve patient rights information.’ As far as I can see, the Sem Declaration is in line with the intention of the rapporteurs Alvheim and Nesvik. I also register that the Sem declaration on these areas is connected by a comprehensive committee. It is important that one of these fundamental issues can have a broad political agreement in the Stortinget. In the position of the Social Committee, the Committee puts its members from the Progress Party ‘incomprehensible’ that the Council of States will not change patient rights. They refer here to letters to the Committee of 18 January this year. This comment from the Progress Party suggests that the letter from the Minister of Health could not have been read very thoroughly, for the Minister of Health wrote the following: «Although I support the intention of the proposal, I would not recommend that it be adopted in its present form.» A large majority in the Committee, all outside the Progress Party, have registered the following: The Minister of Health will present to the Stortinget the necessary proposals, based on the Sem Declaration, and thus also take into account the intentions of the Progress Party.The Minister of Health will make the rules easier for patients and facilitate the practice. The Christian People's Party believes that it must certainly be the best way to care for patients' interests that the department has a proper review of the legal text before it is submitted to the Stortinget for treatment. Then let go of one, or at least one less chance, different interpretations in retrospect. It's quite strange to right Alvheim's indignation and claim that the Christian People's Party is not at all interested in patient rights, when we just establish it, in accordance with the Sem Declaration. I would think it was unnecessary to tell the representative Alvheim that there is a great difference between a political statement and the accuracy of that text and what should be a legally formulated law. What we express in a political phrase is will, and then the legal text should ensure that it becomes correct and not give the basis for doubt later on. It should be gratifying for the whole committee, and it is not a little wonder that I note that the Progress Party is sticking to its minority proposal, as long as it is not demonstrative that they are inconsistent in the matter. It's important when you're going to make up an opinion about a letter from a government council, that a building on that state council really writes. The majority of the committee has done so. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that it will also benefit patients. Creating the impression that there's a big real political difference here can't have a real reason. There must be other reasons, which I should not go into here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e200	The applicant’s rapporteur, who is a representative of the Right, initially said that the Patient Rights Act should lead to the concept of ‘patient at the centre’ having a real content. I can partly agree with that, but it's tones we've heard from the Right for a long time. I have to agree with the representative Alvheim in one thing, namely that this matter is a little remarkable, because the government parties spend quite a lot of time and energy in this matter arguing practically against their own government statement – that is, the so-called Sem declaration. It almost seems that the Sem declaration is a form of marketing document, which means that when you come to the realities, there are many ambiguities and concerns. But don't do that! It might be the form and the game of politics. I'm a little sorry, because there's been a lot of cigaretteing about this with patient rights legislation before. It just shows that when one comes to power, maybe both maps and landscapes are a little bit different. What is important for the Centre Party and me is that an expanded patient rights law with clear leads on what patients are entitled to, also means a much greater need for resources if the term ‘patient in the centre’ is to have real content. It is said quite simply and a little seductive from the government parties, and also from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, that when purchasing treatment capacity from private operators or abroad, the capacity problem should be addressed. But that's going to take money! Today, when we have made a proposal, where we ‘ask the Government to address the public health needs so that the statutory right to treatment within individual time limits laid down on a medical basis is effective for all’, it is a shame to record that only the SV and the Centre are in favour of this. Purchases of treatment capacity from private operators and also from abroad will cost. If waiting time is to be lowered and patient queues removed, this requires more resources. Capacity expansion must cost more, because increase quantitatively should not lead to a reduction in quality? It's my question if you don't answer the question of increased access to resources. Like the government parties, the Workers' Party and the SV, we believe that patient rights legislation in line with what the proposers here want needs to be better worked through and clarified, so that, among other things, the first time amendments to the Patient Rights Act can work as intended. It is important that these changes are clear and precise, so that neither patients nor health professionals are unsure about what the law should be used for and that there are no interpretations in that context. This with resources I want to get a little bit more back to. If we are to have a real opportunity to treat everyone, if it is the purchase of treatment abroad – which in brackets will feed on the public offer – it will be, if we are to buy too much now from private operators and from abroad, at the expense of keeping the level of Norwegian public health services. It's my clear prediction, and I don't think it's that hard to follow logically. But if we are to have a better patient offer with clear rights, we also need to have a stronger resource access, primarily in terms of finance, but also in terms of personnel. If this is to be true, both primary and specialist health services must be strengthened within the public health sector, so that all can meet with an equivalent offer in terms of study, investigation and treatment. And everyone, regardless of their economy, their place of residence and their social status, has the same rights. This means that public health needs to be maintained. We can't try to push this problem away from us and drive propaganda to make it equal rights through purchases from private operators and the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e215	When the Patient Rights Act was dealt with less than three years ago, the issue of individual patient rights was perhaps the most central issue in the debate here in the Chamber. In the context of the adoption of the Patient Rights Act, an important contribution was made to strengthening the individual right. In the debate on that law, the undersigned stated that this was a developing issue, and that it would be natural for us to come back and be more precise about the individual patient rights at a later stage. When we have that debate already now, on the basis of this committee position, I would like to express, for my part, that I think you might have come back to this more quickly by strengthening individual rights than I would have expected at the time. In relation to the issue of individual patient rights, I consider it appropriate to stress some of the things that the representative, in view of the fact that it is the overall access to health services that is, in reality, the most crucial thing for the issue of health care rights. Working for greater access to resources, working for more quality and better organisation, and thus making better use of the resources made available, is, in fact, the most central and, in fact, the one that will bring on the right to health care. It may be a point to stress, as I did so far in the debate nearly three years ago, that a right to health care, and in particular a right to seek health care abroad, can represent a certain risk of a resource distortion compared to those who have the most ease to move in terms of withdrawing such a right. I think you can speak plainly and say that perhaps psychiatric disorders will be more difficult to deal with abroad for several reasons. There are too many psychiatric patients more difficult to travel, it may be more difficult to receive treatment in relation to the type of suffering in another cultural context, other languages, etc. So what is here related to the risk of a resource distortion is some of the things that I think the Minister of Health should address in the submission of proposals related to this. With regard to what I have said so far, it may sound as if there are reservations in relation to saying that it is a right and a good step that is taken in connection with the Sem statement, and the comments of the government parties and the Workers' Party in the committee position. It's not. I want to be very clear on stressing that this is a development in the right direction, and that it's right that it's coming. But there's something to see also the issues that lie in this, and not in any way get blue-eyed in the belief that it is defining individual rights that is the safest way to be introduced into the operating room. It might be a little bit significant that I'm using the example of the operating room, because it's probably just in relation to a lot of operations it could be easiest to move on, while other treatments might be less easy to get done elsewhere, but may be equally important. I think it's natural that the government wants time to be able to go into this question in a proper and proper way. I think it's understandable and right that the majority in Odelstinget is prepared to give the government that opportunity. It is reasonable to recognise that a type of work such as this should be carried out with a high level of precision, both in terms of the design of the specific right provision, but also in terms of seeing this in the context of other rules that are in place, and to ensure that there is a reasonable balance in relation to other rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e229	The introduction of individual medical deadlines into the healthcare system will be a major step for a significantly better health care system. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party have underlined the importance of this and the possible consequences for the individual in relation to the possibilities of receiving treatment when needed. As such, the system will also be good for society, because no one is worthy of being in a condition of health. When the representative here Alvheim is trying to raise doubts about what is the Right Position, there is no basis for that. Neither the remarks in the suspension nor the letter from the Minister of Health give rise to any doubt that the Government has the intention to implement this policy. Now, right in government, and that means that we don't just need to mark our policies, we also have a significant need to show that our policies work in practice. Therefore, it would be completely irresponsible through a Document No. Eight proposals to introduce such a significant patient right, make such a significant change in the way our health system works, and then hope that it goes well. Because that was really what the Greatness had done then. We had introduced a right and hoped that it would go well. Probably it had not gone well, and that means that we had once again introduced a patient's right that had lost faith in the population, and what would have been the next step? What would have been the consequence of the belief in the entire political system? Therefore, it is imperative that when we are to implement this significant change, there should be thorough work on which to base. It also means that the right all the way will have attention to the fact that this is a matter to be implemented as quickly as possible. This is one of our most important points and breakthroughs in the Sem Declaration, and I think the Progress Party must be happy that the Right has put so much emphasis on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e238	Let me make it quite clear that I want to introduce individual deadlines for the treatment of patients with the right to necessary health care from specialist health care. These patients should, as a clear starting point, be treated abroad or by private institutions in the event of failure to comply with the deadline. The Co-operation Board has set out in the Sem Declaration that such an improvement in the Patient Rights Act is to be implemented. Today, the patient is entitled to treatment within the time required for medical care. The patient is not given a time when the right is to be honoured. For patients, this may seem unclear as to what their right really is. Furthermore, the consequences of violating the right to individual patients may be unclear. There must be a legal objective to ensure that patients have access to healthcare, that it is easily accessible and easy to deal with. Individual deadlines and clear consequences of infringements make the right easier to understand for individual patients. As a result, individual time limits contribute to facilitating the exercise of their rights. I agree with the majority of the Social Committee in imposing individual deadlines. But I also agree with the majority that adoption of the proposal made in Document No. 8:24, at this point is not worthy. Today, we have several schemes that give patients access to treatment abroad. These arrangements have been established at different times and with different reasons. The schemes are based on different legislation, covered over different budgets and partly overlapping. Furthermore, different bodies are responsible for them. In order to introduce a new basis for treatment abroad, these arrangements should be coordinated and simplified. It must be clear where the patient should turn to for access to treatment. It must also be clear who is responsible for the patient’s receiving the treatment they should receive. Funding should, as far as possible, come from one source and give healthcare incentives to do the job properly. It can't be that by failing to solve the problem, you can pass the bill on to another person. I will come back to the Stortinget with a comprehensive proposal that takes account of these considerations. Before I do that, I want to hear and take into account patients' views on these questions. By conducting a full, regular consultation, patients’ organisations will be given the opportunity to express themselves and provide advice. After a period of time since the project involving the purchase of hospital services abroad has now taken place, patients will probably have gained useful experience which should be incorporated into the Stortinget proposal. Until a new revised solution is implemented, I intend to continue the existing arrangements. So, in addition to imposing individual deadlines, I want to coordinate and simplify access to hospital services abroad, which requires, as mentioned above, amendments to the Patient Rights Act. It's one of the most important health policy objectives of the Sem Declaration we're discussing here. This is a major health policy reform. It is a reform that not only has legal aspects but has economic and organisational implementation aspects. The joy of today's suspension is the broad cross-political consensus behind the government statement at this point. However, it should be lacking only when the Government intends to carry out such a major health policy reform, that no opportunity was given to promote a completed and re-examined proposal against the Storting which takes account of all these important aspects of practical implementation. I am fully prepared to be put to the test both by the Progress Party and others in this Chamber in relation to the implementation of the Sem-Declaration, but I would ask that the Government in fact be given the opportunity to present its proposal, before the joint judgment in such a way as the representative Alvheim suggested today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e269	We'll judge the government's course from case to case, and then we'll add up. In his letter to the Committee dated 18 January, the Minister for Health wrote in point 1, last sentence: ‘Furthermore, although it clarifies the content of the right to necessary health care, the proposal will not, overall, strengthen patients’ legal position vis-à-vis healthcare.’ I don't understand what the Minister of Health here means. It is precisely what the Progress Party and the Right Party in the past have been looking for, to strengthen the legal certainty of patients by giving them a legal right to treatment. How can the Minister of Health write what he is doing here? I must be allowed to ask for a proper explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e281	The representative Alvheim and the Minister of Health have a common intention, and that is to strengthen patients' rights. This is the question of how to develop legislation in this field, the disagreement is about, not about reality. When I have allowed myself to ask some questions in the formulation of the proposals of the Progress Party, it is because the proposal essentially involves repealing the rules governing who is entitled to the necessary health care and the health care they are entitled to. In this respect, it is of little help for patients to set individual deadlines for entitlement to such assistance, when it becomes more unclear who is entitled and what they are entitled to. I believe that such a vague rule leads to poor predictability for the individual patient and makes it difficult to claim their right. That's the background for the assessments I've taken into account. It is important that the rights adopted actually involve strengthening patients’ legal certainty, rights in practice and not just on paper. I therefore believe that the issue is served by the fact that the Stortinget is presented with a revised proposal that not only takes account of the political objective, which we fully share, but also takes into account the practical implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e290	I can refer to the post I made earlier in the case, without repeating too much of it. At least it's clear that this with a chain to get patients' rights to become real is important. The study, investigation, treatment and, where appropriate, the need for rehabilitation are included in order to have the patient fully restored. It is then important to have some impact assessments as to what the introduction of individual deadlines will lead to. I ask the Minister of Health to respond to the following: When he now has more time to investigate this, there will be a review and a demonstration of the need for resources in terms of personnel, hospitals, medical equipment, etc. which, in total, may reflect economic needs to make increased patient rights a reality? Will there be such an overview as has been requested by the minority, so that there will be as much credibility as possible in promoting this matter at last?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e299	I can confirm that when the Government promotes an odelstungsproposition with proposals for implementing the Sem Declaration at this point, we will, of course, explain the economic and administrative implications of that proposal, as is usual when we promote legislative proposals for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e304	I did not really intend to take a line in this matter. But when, in his reply to John Alvheim, the Minister of Health was going to try to explain why this provision that the Advance Party has promoted was more unclear than what is before, I needed to mention a few things. That proposal is about removing some of the limitations that lie within who is entitled to health care. That's exactly what you're doing to make changes, and not to erode the rule. If the Minister of Health reads the proposal for Section 2-1 on these changes, he sees that there are restrictions that are removed – precisely to give everyone who needs it the right to health care within the specialist health service. So that's where the change is. Can the Minister of Health also comment on the following: If this proposal has the problems referred to by the Minister of Health, why did the Minister of Health not come up with an input that could have made these things concrete while the committee was dealing with this? In fact, the Committee has now had this matter under consideration. There must have been an excellent opportunity to provide the clarifications the Minister for Health wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e313	I guess it's pretty clear to everyone in this room that once the government has made this reform a major part of the health policy part of its government base, the government will decide to make a proposal for the Storing based on a broad and well-worked platform. That the government parties have then worked to give the government that opportunity, I do not think one should suspect them in. But when that is said, I think that the main conclusion after this debate and after the vote should not be that there is a line of conflict on whether to implement this reform, but that, in fact, it has taken place – and my party has also contributed to it – that there is now unanimity on the way to implementing such a reform. And that platform I will use when I come back to Stortinget with a proposal that is in line with the government's declaration on its political basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e320	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. However, the President proposes that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e323	While I was listening to the Minister of Health, I thought a little bit about that while the grass grows, the cow dies. I have a simple question: when? The Sem statement was ready in October last year. The Government's statement was made when the Government acceded. When it is said that everyone now agrees on what the first Progress Party wanted, and that then the Right joined a few years ago, and as the Minister for Health now says is unanimous, when does the Minister for Health come? It is not that you really need to send something to the hearing when it is stated in the Sem statement, because then the government has decided. Hearing is something you use when considering whether to do something, and you want to know what stakeholders think. My specific question to the Minister of Health is: Will he now promise Odelstinget that the proposals to which he has always referred will be dealt with, so that this reform, which he now says we all agree on, can be implemented from 1 July this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e331	In my letter to the Committee and in my article here today, I have explained a part of the preparatory work that should take place, not only in terms of the design of a bill, but also in terms of the design of an overall scheme that includes in the Patient Rights Act both a right to treatment in public hospitals, a right to treatment in private hospitals, where the money should follow the patient, and a right to treatment abroad if you do not receive treatment in Norway. For my part, I have to say that I'm going to do it in a thorough and proper way, it requires something more than a few weeks' work on some legal paragraphs, because it's actually going to be an implementation device behind this that's going to make it work, so that patients can be served with the solution. I am working on it as quickly as possible, and hope that we can make a proposal that will enable the rapporteur's wish to be fulfilled here today, that this law can come into force next year. As regards the question of consultation, it is at least that when the Government promotes a bill for the Storting, the Government has the suggestion that such legislative proposals be consulted. I intend to do that, so that interested parties can actually get their opinion on the proposal before it comes to Stortinget and Stortinget to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e338	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e343	Initially, I will be allowed to read the following from a proposal in Innst. O. No 91: «The patient is entitled to the necessary health care from the specialist healthcare service to be provided within an individually prescribed medically justified period.» So now I read from Innst. O. No 91 for 1998-1999, and it is identical to the proposal that the Progress Party has now promoted in this document No. The 8th proposal. I think that at least some right-wing representatives must feel reasonably uncomfortable with what the debate here has shown. And the interesting things are, among other things, that the representative of the Aarøyen – if so – showed that there is a difference between what is contained in a political document and what can be done in this matter. It has also been suggested from many here that the proposal that has been put forward is not thorough enough, and that it must therefore be examined a little further, sent to the hearing, etc. In fact, the undersigned must say that there was one thing that impressed me on the Social Committee in the previous period, and that was the thoroughness of the Right when it came to drafting legislative proposals. And when the parties with which one cooperates in government, in the debate here, indicate that this is not sufficiently elaborated, the proposal has to be examined further and sent out to the hearing, it is actually also shown that one does not believe that the work that the Right did in the last period was thorough enough for a legal text, because it was in fact both the Progress Party and the Right that were behind this legal text. I will also be allowed to read a little more quote from page 14 in the same setting: ‘However, a patient rights law does not become more than an incomplete framework if it does not contain the most important – right to treatment.’ Here we go, let's go, let's go, let's ‘These members note that the Christian People’s Party is violating yet another of its electoral commitments in the field of health policy, since the Government does not propose a legal right to treatment under the Patient Rights Act.’ It is quite strong diet from the Right towards the former government with the Christian People's Party at the head. And my question, which strikes you right away, is, can't you, frankly, be left with a pretty dull taste in your mouth when you now oppose this proposal? After hearing the debate – where so many people say that we agree on everything that stands there, but we need a little more time – ask the following question: Is it who has promoted the proposal that is the problem, and not the proposal itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e367	I would like to make a few brief comments on the two proposals in the position of the Social Committee. One is from the Center Party and the other from the Advance Party. With regard to the proposal from the Central Party and the SV, I have no difficulty in understanding why no other party in the Social Committee has found reason to join it, as the representative of Lutvold pointed out. This is clear from the fact that it speaks exclusively of the public health resource needs, implicitly assuming that there is nothing else in this country but a public health service. It's probably not many other parties than the two that have such a sense of reality. Secondly, it refers to an investigation that would be impracticable. It is not easy to imagine what an investigation of the need for resources for public health should look like and what methodological measures should be taken to arrive at a result of such an investigation. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party have a very, very long reason – a very long run – before repeating Document No. The 8th proposal. They say, among other things: it is ‘more than incomprehensible’ that no one else is enthusiastic about this proposal. Yes, what is understandable can depend on many things, both the one trying to understand and the one trying to understand. But when something is even ‘more than incomprehensible’, there is well reason to believe that there is something with the will to understand it may be lacking. For my part, I have no problem understanding that Document No. In general, eight proposals are a poor basis for legislation and the adoption of legislative texts. This is also the case with the proposal put forward here. One can express the presumption that the representative Nesvik was so concerned about whether others feel comfortable or not, that this is the type of proposal that has been put forward not for convenience but for inconvenient reasons, that is. the type of proposal that has been put forward for one purpose, namely that it should be put to the vote, and then one should be able to go out and say that one was the only party in this Chamber who wanted individual statutory patient rights. I don't think this is a particularly credible way of running politics. Normally, in a big debate where such a proposal as this was on the table, it would have been reworded as a transmission proposal, as the Government and the State Council responsible have clearly stated that they intend to come to the Stortinget with a proposal to that effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e382	The representative Nesvik wondered if the Right felt uncomfortable in the matter. No, in no way, but I must say, after listening to both Nesvik and Carl I. Hagen, that I am a little surprised. I am surprised that one can believe that one has the opportunity to make such a significant change in our healthcare system in a few months. I am surprised that one believes that a government intends to implement its government base in a year, and does not need any time to implement its policy in a sensible way. But most of all, I'm surprised that the Progress Party, through its argument today, almost devalues the Progress Party and the Right's main battle cause in the health care community to a slight change that can be implemented through a Document No. 8-proposals and give effects in a few months. It's a de-evaluation of the Right and Advance Party's most important battle cause in health care, which surprises me very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e389	In my post, I tried to find out that there is a difference in the accuracy of a party political program and what should be a legally sustainable text. The representative Nesvik understands that I have not received this. Now I want to illustrate this with the understanding of the letter from the Council of State, where today we have been documented that the representatives from the Progress Party have not been able to read it correctly, as it says. It shows very well how important it is with a clear and indisputable text. That is why we cannot use a more or less arbitrary text to implement major health policy reforms. There is a need for a text that we can read equally, whether we belong to the Christian People's Party or the Advance Party, and I hope with this that I have helped to clarify. That is why we want a proper legal review of an important health policy reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e394	A lot of the time and the words here now are saying that this is some kind of local derby on the right hand side. But we're going to apply ourselves to the others as well. It's been said several times that in sum and in the large lines, we're relatively in agreement, but there are some rarities that come out. The representative's salary made me take the floor now. When he says that it is only the Center Party and the SV that can have this reality that allows us to promote such a proposal as we do, I really have to wonder. We have said that we will have an assessment of the public health sector's resource needs if these rights are to become real. It's the public health service that's going to pay this anyway? In fact, even the concept of a health business contains the direction that it is the health business that should be able to purchase patient treatment outside the health business. And I expect that it is the public fund to buy, regardless of whether the person to treat is a private actor or an actor abroad. This is a matter for public health! Moreover, in my introduction I said that with the policy it is put up for here, one could risk having a land-eating of the public health system. It is possible that the representative does not worry about it, but also sees it as a desired development. So to this that an investigation of resource needs should be so difficult: in these days we get data from the individual health region in terms of what they think is their need for sound and good health care. It must then be possible to get hold of some of this. You probably have faith in your own health businesses. It must also be possible to look at what needs to be increased in order to increase treatment capacity, in order to avoid queues and to achieve a genuine patient rights system with a time perspective. During the spring, there will probably also be a list of the investment needs of the different health establishments. That list will be formidable, I'm afraid, at least it's suggested 50 billion dollars in investment needs for now. It is not taken in one year, it is not possible for many reasons, but it must nevertheless be possible to introduce some factors here that make it not as hopeless as the representative will at least have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e409	It was also with the background in the Inge Wohnungs post that I asked for the word. I record that he swings the whip with several wits, but sometimes I think it hits his own backboard. It is possible to read the introductory text before considering the proposal itself, and the proposal itself should be clear enough. Clearly, with the differences in supply that have developed in Norway precisely because of the privatisation of healthcare, we still have to take care of public health services in order to be able to maintain the intention of offering equivalent health services to the whole population, not least regardless of where people live. If we were not to be concerned that the public health service provision still has to be provided with resources, we would only see an enhanced trend towards increasing supply differences. And that's exactly why the Center Party and SV have underlined that you need to identify the needs of the public health service. So I almost think it's a little bit revealing that the resistance to going into such a proposal is so big from so many of the other parties. You have to continue to present it as if you are in favour of that equivalence, but if you don't want to use instruments that guarantee equivalence, the differences will only grow. It's tempting to ask Right: what kind of instruments do Right think you're going to use if it's not going to be the public health service that's going to form the spine? In addition, the need for resources must be identified in order to meet such an intention to treat patients within specified time limits. Because if it is such as pay here, that it would be difficult – or almost impossible – to identify that need, how will you be able to meet and meet the deadlines set next time? I believe that problems are being created here in order not to get the light directed at itself and towards the Right and Right in the lack of willingness to care for what still has to be the backbone of a good health care system, the public health service service, which is the only thing that can guarantee us the equivalence of the healthcare provision to the whole population.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e418	First to the Aarøen representative: I just have to say that I am not surprised by the Christian People's Party in this matter, because they did not agree with the Right and the Advance Party on the Patient Rights Act the last time, so that's quite all right. The Christian People's Party has stood and stood in its position, and I fully respect that. I don't have a problem with that at all. What I have problems with are the two posts that came right after, from the representative, Wohnning and the representative, Höie. They show in their speeches that you need more time to make this more thorough. In my speech, I showed that my opinion of the Right Group, at least in the Social Committee when it came to legal issues, was that they were thorough and had worked through legislative proposals. Then it's strange that when you now come two and a half years later, you come up with the same proposal that the Right then agreed to design, you say that that wasn't the proposal you made at the time, well enough. Meg was familiar with both the representative Wohnning and the representative Höie members of the Stortinget also during the previous period. As a result, they have probably been involved in dealing with this in the Right Group. But it is possible that I am wrong, and if I do, I just have to confess that I was not aware of that, and that you have not had a thorough enough treatment in the Right. It is believed that this proposal, which was then supported, was not good enough. So they put forward a proposal that they themselves are not sure is right. It's just a confession that we have to take from this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e425	Sometimes I am happy that I don't have the same reality as the representative Inge Wohnning has. That would be bad. The representative of Magne Aarøen speaks of us not having read the letter from the Minister of Health. Of course we've read the letter, we've read it several times and understand it less and less. Then the representative Bent Höie says that the Progress Party devalues such a big health issue. Who's doing it? It's the Right, not the Advance Party. This matter was investigated, and we had the same text when we dealt with the law of rights for two and a half years back in time. The same text has the Government of the Sem Declaration. Nevertheless, the Minister of Health claims that this cannot be adopted because it weakens patients’ rights. I still don't understand what's in this. And I dare to ask the Minister of Health – I have to bother him once again in the pulpit: is it so to understand that it is the department and it is the politicians who are now going to decide which patients are going to get this right or not? Is it the case that economics and diagnosis should be taken into account, or perhaps both, when deciding whether to get treatment or not when I need it? Is that what is not sufficiently determined by this government? There were no thoughts that the Right Party and the Advance Party stood for earlier, except that we followed the national priority criteria that we have always followed and that we continue to follow. Is there anything more now, with the sloping of some patient groups that are not to be granted exclusive legal rights to treatment? I have to repeat that I think the Right conduct in this matter is more than regrettable, and I do not have very great expectations of the health policy to the Right should lead in this government constellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e436	I allowed myself to point out that the term "more than incomprehensible" contains a paradox. Now the representative added Alvheim to a new one: ‘more than regrettable’. I must say that I admire the ability of the representative Alvheim to speak in large letters, as if there were no other letters available in the alphabet! What is the reality of this matter is that the Progress Party has presented a purely demonstration proposal, knowing very well that the current government has promised the Stortinget that a properly reworked proposal for a legislative text should be made. It is fully permissible for all the lots in this room to do so – create those kinds of exercises. But there's little reason for you to blow yourself up and get upset that others consider the game as it is, namely a game. So a little comment on the representatives of Ballo and Glow: I have actually read their proposals in the context of the motivation for the proposal. That's exactly why I said what I did, because you read the motivation, you clearly find that they justify the proposal by showing that they don't want there to be more than one type of organization of the health care system in this country, and that's what's going on in the public sphere. That's actually what they're saying. That is their overall consideration. There is no need to consider whether patients should be treated, but it is due to the organisational nature of the healthcare system, and therefore it is also stated in the proposal as they do. It is only the public part of the health service that they wish to have a review of resource needs. I can still not see, after the attempts at clarification given by Ballo and Lutvold, that the investigation they are asking for can be carried out in any reasonable way. What they are asking for is a kind of total estimate of the public health needs in Norway. I don't think there's any expertise in this country that's capable of investigating it. It is simply linked to the fact that the very concept of "need" is a very moving and extremely unclear concept. In very many contexts, ‘needs’ are used as demand. Of course, the demand for healthcare at all times can be estimated. But that is something quite different from what the proposal asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e448	As far as the debate is concerned, I would like to say that I believe that this matter has not been served by the construction of strong contradictions with partly strong use of words between parties and representatives in this Chamber, who actually want to carry out the same reform. I don't want on my part to contribute to it. On the contrary, I would like to contribute to the implementation of a reform linking legal rights under the Patient Rights Act with individual rights based on the Sem Declaration, with a practical implementation for patients with a right to treatment in Norwegian public hospitals, or in private hospitals if the first one cannot be fulfilled, or abroad if it cannot be fulfilled. Today we have a conglomerate of schemes that we need to streamline to make it work well for patients. It is even more important for me to have it in place than to have a quick decision that still requires considerable time to implement. But based on what we have committed ourselves to in the Sem statement, I will promise that I am not out to restrict patients' rights. On the contrary, I want to extend the rights. I want it to be clear and understandable to them as to what rights they have, what consequences if the rights cannot be fulfilled, and what conditions apply. That is the background for my remarks in this matter. Let me conclude by saying that, in parallel with developing a legislative proposal, we will be working on solutions both in the field of foreign treatment and interaction with private hospitals, which means that we can actually fulfil the intentions that lie here, even before the legislative proposal itself has been formally adopted, because with that aim we can use the arrangements that we have, both in the field of foreign treatment and hospital treatment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e458	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e461	It's obvious that Inge Wohnning has rotted into an intellectual maze where the light gets away on the way, so I'm going to try to help him out again. So the SV clearly distinguishes between demand and demand. And what will be important to us – to be pointed out in relation to the problem here – is that one should actually calculate what is on an annual basis the overall need of the Norwegian population, for example, the specialist health service within the ear, nose, throat. The type of needs analyses previously existed. I remember that, under the direction of the old Health Directorate, such analyses of different specialities were carried out. We lack that today, and this means that the use of specialist services can be multiple in some parts of the country compared to other parts of the country. Just because public services have been weakened and private services strengthened, differences in supply have increased. And the right here adds up through the pay rhetoric, is that it's the demand that governs the health care provision. We have to try to get out of this mess!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e468	John I. Alvheim has also spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e471	The matter is a game from the Advance Party, says the representative Inge Wohnning. I'm not as immigrated in games as I think Inge Wohnning and Right is. What I'm actually thinking about are the patients who are in line and who do not receive treatment in good time. And if we agree to change this law, then it's important that we do it as quickly as possible, just for the sake of patients. They were the ones who were supposed to be the starting point for the whole case. Then I think it's a little strange that you have to have enough time to look at the other financial instruments that apply. You can look at them separately, regardless of this amendment, because the text of the amendment was completed when we dealt with the right law two and a half years ago. And we had the exact same proposal as the Right and the Representative Inge Wages at that time agreed, but the pay is obviously not satisfied with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e480	Ola D. Glötvold has also had the word twice and is now given the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e483	I acknowledge that I and my party are responsible for a strong public health system, but that does not mean that we cannot cooperate with other actors! That's what we've been saying. But when the pay says that our proposal is completely hopeless, and that we don't have any reality that is of this world, then I'm starting to wonder if it might be a little bit reverse. Because what we are concerned about is the public health service and the public health budget – as I said in the opening round as well – and it has to be paid by the same fund even if there are private operators or foreign operators who are in charge of the treatment. And that is the need that it must be possible to determine. So the representative's talking pay saying that someone just talks in capital letters here. But pay is itself a word artist, and there can be a lot of magic coming out of it. And when the philologist Salaries – who really confesses to these market laws – now begin to explain the difference in demand and demand, it seems a little strange. Demand creates a need, and then the question is: What demand are we going to meet to make extended patient rights legislation real? That's the need!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e494	No pay has the possibility to use 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e497	There are some temptations it is impossible to resist. Mr Ballo and Mr Gløtvold clearly have quite different views on the content of the proposal they are putting together, and let me just say to the representative of Gløtvold: I have not characterised the proposal as 'hopeless'. On the other hand, I have said that I see very good reasons to vote against the proposal. And I think it's actually so that there's no other than the two parts in this room that could imagine designing such a proposal and justify it in the way that they do. It is related to the fact that the centre party, for some extraneous unintelligible reason in an ideological sense, has approached the SV at fast speed, and in more and more cases it is located right there. Which of the two gentlemen has ended up in the deleterious company, I'm not going to decide that. But the company is a mess!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e504	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e512	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e519	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Advancement Party. The proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to address the public health resource needs in order to ensure that the legal right to treatment within individual time limits laid down on a medical basis is effective for all.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21-lower.ana.ud954e585	There is no record.
