ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e71	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.O.D. Odd Lien is dead. It was with deep sorrow that we received the message that the former payroll representative of the Workers' Party Odd Lien is dead, 87 years old. Odd Lien was born in Oslo, and brought with him two years of commercial school, technical night school and LO school before the country was occupied by the Germans on 9 April 1940. He immediately moved to Halden where he got a job as a shoemaker, while at the same time having entered the resistance movement. He actively participated in the il102legal work of refugees, cures and the distribution of illegal flyers. After a short time he was arrested by the Gestapo, was imprisoned and sent to Sachsenhausen in Germany. Here he was imprisoned for five years, until the white buses he brought home in the spring of 1945. It was a discredited young man who returned home and took up his political work, first as a journalist in Halden Arbeiderblad and later as an editor in Rana Blad. In 1949 he came to the newspaper Sørlanden, first as a journalist, then editorial secretary, before he became editor in the newspaper in 1955. This position was held by Lien until 1973, when he was elected to Stortinget. It was a significant editor of the newspaper Sørlanden. In Odd Lien's time, the paper expanded and got local offices in Mandal, Farsund and Lvgal. When Lien came to Kristiansand, the political landscape was still characterized by the joint programme that guided Norwegian policy after peace. But every now and then, national and local issues arose. And Lien turned out to be a strong debater both in the newspaper columns and in the city board. Lien was a member of the Kristiansand Presidency from 1951 to 1964 and a member of the City Council from 1971 to 1975. In 1973 he was a candidate for the Grand Prix and received eight years in the Grand Duchy as a member of the Constitutional and Foreign Affairs Committee. Here he liked very well, and with his background as a prisoner of war in Germany, it was very important for Lien to work for peace and security. His commitment made him responsible for developing a number of the important majority positions of the time in the Committee. At the same time, he found time to give a number of lectures both in his own constituency and elsewhere in the country, on peace and security and a welfare society for all. After Odd Lien ended in Stortinget and passed into his retirement life, he became chairman of the senior council in Kristiansand. He was persuaded to four new years of urban governance from 1983, and he was also the longtime leader of the War Invalids League in West Agder, where he worked actively to improve the conditions of his friends and combat traps from the years of war. Lien was also active in the press organisations and participated in the launch of the Agder senio club for press professionals, where he was active until recently. Odd Lien is characterised as a political fighter, with an optimistic view of the future. A warm and caring man, with strong courage and willingness to fight for people, things and ideas that he was occupied with. We remember Odd Lien with deep respect and gratitude and shines peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e101	Having regard to the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended with regard to Friday's agenda. – The meeting was scheduled for the set at 1 p.m. Nine o'clock. At the end of the conference, the minutes are held at Odelstinget. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e108	On behalf of the representatives of Øystein Djupedal, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of support measures for people who will be less dependent on electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e113	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e118	Before we begin with the agenda for today's meeting, the President will ask for the contribution of the Chamber to correct a mistake made during the voting at the Stortinget meeting on Monday evening. Case No. 4 of that meeting, and it concerns budget revenue. S. No Appendix No 13 3, on Flytoget AS. When voting on this matter, the chairman of the Committee on Transport said that II of the Opinion's proposal for a decision was unnecessary and asked for it to be submitted to a transmission proposal. The President interpreted this in a way that allowed the Roman number to be deleted, and concluded that II was to be regarded as deleted. In order to correct the error which it made, the President will propose that the Storting should re-examine II in proposals for decisions in the budget. S. No Appendix No 13 3rd@item: inlistbox No objections have been raised and the President's proposal is deemed to be adopted. The President shall refer II from the said suspension: ‘II The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Aerodrome AS is secured priority on the route Asker-Gardermoen, provided 100 pst. state ownership.’;» The President proposes that II be amended to read the introduction: ‘It is recommended that the Government provide...’, and that the proposal be forwarded to the Government with the amendment made without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 9 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In addition, the President will propose that the Stortinget derogate from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and complete voting after case No. 1 to 6 on the current map has been completed and then total voting after case No. 7-8 at the end of today's meeting. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e159	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e170	I repeat what I have said in the past, and as the Progress Party still believes, that the current way of dealing with the trade union budgets is to devalue the competence of the professional committees. The total cost of Frameworks 15 and 16 is approx. 250 billion kroner, while after a week's work on the budget, the committee has the power to move about. Forty million. kr, or 0,16 per mille. The government's proposal for the government budget had a very unsocial profile that I haven't seen the husband of in the 14 years I've been sitting on the Stortinget. I respond most strongly to the fact that cuts in transfers, increased excesses, represented in the proposal beyond NOK 2 billion, a proposal that would have hit and stigmatized the poorest among us, and in particular I would mention here the general gravitational support, which has been removed. I don't have words that can be used from this pulpit to characterize this pettyness of the government parties that will stigmatize the poorest among us in this context. The justification for removing the general aid by referring to the low use of the existing additional aid tested for needs clearly shows that the Government does not understand the self-respect and dignity of the older generations. In addition, the term ‘the survivors’ is now removed and instead the term ‘the residents’ is inserted. It should be a wake-up call, especially for the Christian People's Party. From the right, I'm not expecting anything in this context. This party has never had the tradition of special empathy with the poor in our society. The party took responsibility, entered into negotiations with the government parties, and was able to negotiate a result with a much better social profile, a step on the way, in line with the values of the Progress Party. Unfortunately, we did not get far enough, but we managed to bring back NOK 1.6 billion of those over NOK 2 billion that were inside of cut and increased excesses. Other parties would like to criticize us, but we think that the criticism, especially from the Workers' Party, seems to be hollow. They had the opportunity to get a better result, but they didn't use it. Fanning with an alternative budget in the financial position does not last. But these are the results that count. Moreover, I can say that the alternative budget of the Progress Party in the financial situation was much stronger in the health and social sector than the Labour Party's proposal was. In the main agreement, we first started to cut public thefts from pension and cohabiting couples, so that the pension for these from 2003 will be NOK 5000 higher, from 2004 to NOK 8 000 higher and from 2005 to NOK 11000 higher. This has been a matter that the Progress Party has been working for since 1981, so far back in the last century. We were able to maintain the bladder prescription system without any excesses for disabled persons and pensioners with a minimum pension. Unfortunately, we did not manage to bring the prescription back to the way it is today. We had to make a choice, and we chose instead to remove the formidable increase in self-interest of 500 kroner, which will result in less expenses for medications for well over 700,000 users. We agreed to keep the deduction from the tax for high disease costs, we got to keep the scheme that the disabled can earn up to 1 G, and we got a better arrangement for the disability car. It was also important to ensure that private hospitals and clinics are treated in the same way in the case of free hospital choice, that regional enterprises enter into contracts with private hospitals and clinics, and that private hospitals and clinics benefit from grants that may be granted under exceptional circumstances. Unfortunately, we did not get there with the return of the general tomb support. But I can assure this room that this is a matter to which the Progress Party will come back on the first occasion. The important thing to mention is that we increased the mortgage from the House Bank by 500 million. kr for the construction of care and rehabilitation institutions in southern countries, which is an indirect connection to parts of our foreign budget. During the mini-arrangement between the government parties and the Progress Party, it was possible to move approx. Forty million. kr. What I want to mention in particular in this equation is 6 million. kr to increase the number of rehabilitation spaces, preferably reumatists, at the Igaloo Institute in Montenegro. The Committee visited Montenegro in September, and all the parties in the Committee expressed great satisfaction with the treatment offered there. Norway has had health trips to the Igaloo Institute in Montenegro since 1976, but with a stay during the war. Now the number of Norwegian patients at Igaloo is down to 500, while the main emphasis of health travel patients has been sent to Turkey. There are currently 1,300 patients. During the visit to the Igaloo Institute, the members of the Committee were informed that the Institute had a very poor economy, due not least to a lack of access to patients from Norway. I am very happy that it was possible to get 6 million. Igaloo, so that we can increase the number of patients in 2003 from approx. 500 to 800. This is not just a handshake to the Igaloo Institute, it is just as much a bilateral handshake to Montenegro, and – above all – 300 rehabilitation spaces can benefit from a four-week stay down there. Furthermore, the advance part of the mini-arrangement got 5 million. NOK more for care in rural areas, SEK 4 million. kr more to user organisations and 1 million. for preventive AIDS information. We secured further education in ultrasound for midwives at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim, with 2 million. kr. Furthermore, we were given the verbal majority that the public food establishments should be a professional and financial responsibility for the enterprises, and the enterprises are required to continue working on the establishment of a Pet Scanner System at the Rikshospitale and Radium Hospital. In the party's alternative budget on Framework 15, we had an increase of SEK 1.1 billion and on Framework 16, an increase of DKK 1.7 billion, which included SEK 600 million. SEK to health enterprises and 330 million. kr to the psychiatry plan. We also zeroed out all the increase in props. So far, the Progress Party believes that the hospital reform, with state ownership and driver responsibility, has responded to expectations, since it is documented that the waiting time is reduced – and the number of patients on the lists as well. However, like the other parties, the Progress Party is concerned about the economic disadvantage of enterprises, which has been brought up because of increased pension costs and unforeseen high wage increases, which the Storting had not taken into account during the treatment of the revised government budget. It is therefore disappointing to record that only two parties are following up the economic crisis in health businesses, in St.prp. No 26 for 2002-2003 to propose the necessary allocation of DKK 2 billion in the current year. As a result, the many proposals for reduction in patient treatment developed in enterprises can become a reality in 2003 – and the reform has gone wrong. Enterprises need to have a predictable economy so that patient treatment can continue in 2003 at its 2001 and 2002 levels. In the past, there has been a tendency that when hospitals cut off their offerings, it often affects the weakest groups, such as psychiatry and geriatry, which must be prevented. Nor can the party of progress accept a reduction in the supply of food at local hospitals, with long distances between hospitals, in order to save money. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it makes sense for the operational credit system to be extended until 2004. However, operating credits cannot resolve the case in the long term. Finally, I will address the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved, together with other parties, and our own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e206	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e211	I hear what the representative Alvheim says about the unsocial cuts in the draft government budget. In particular, the representative Alvheim draws this out with the assistance of the tomb. Here, the representative Alvheim leaves his social anguish in the Chamber, especially towards the government parties. Then you have to ask yourself, is it so that the government parties have a majority in this room? No, it's not. So somehow, the government parties must have cooperated with a party, which has given the framework that leads to the cutting off of the funeral aid. That cooperation has just happened with the Progress Party. It is, of course, the vote of the Progress Party in this Chamber that leads to the social committee setting up a framework for the closure of excavation aid. Then one has to ask the representative Alvheim: was it in these budgetary negotiations with the government parties that the Progress Party promoted a desire to get the burial aid back in place, but that it was an absolute requirement of the government parties to wind it up? Was it really so that the party would have it in place, but that the government parties said: no – here, but no longer – the burial aid should go away? I don't think it was like that. That is why I think the representative of Alvheim has and must take full responsibility for the closure of the burial aid today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e218	Yes, we have a responsibility, as part of the agreement we made with the government parties. We had the tomb help highly prioritised on the negotiation list. But it was not possible to get to the full return of the general tomb support. It was an offer of $30 million. kr, while the general burial aid costs 150 million. kr. That was the situation, and that's the situation. We're sorry about that. But, as I said in my post: Be sure that the Advancement Party will come back to this matter on a later occasion. Then I will repeat in relation to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen: the Labour Party also had the opportunity to negotiate. I don't know what was on the party's priority list, but it's too stupid to come and criticize us afterwards when you had the opportunity and didn't use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e225	In line with the Right, the Progress Party has a positive attitude towards people's rights and obligations, i.e. responsibility and respect for each other. When it comes to preventive health work, we all know that it can be demanding. It can also be unpopular because it often affects the lifestyle of the individual. Statistics show that passive smoking, and not least marine smoking, is dangerous and increases the risk of both cancer, lung disease and cardiovascular disease. Statistics also show that hotel and restaurant service personnel in particular have the highest mortality rate before retirement and that this is mainly due to smoking. The Party of Advancement, and not least the Chairman of the Committee, is an active promoter to strengthen health services and patients’ rights. I have registered that the representative Alvheim is negative to the health minister's proposal for a new smoking law. It is therefore tempting to ask the question: What is the policy of the Progress Party in the area of preventive health work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e234	Smoking is harmful to health. Passive smoking is harmful to health and smokers should not expose non-smokers to passive smoking. However, it is not necessary to prohibit all smoking at the service points in order to achieve this objective. SINTEF has demonstrated that with the technical solutions currently available, it is well possible to protect restaurant staff against passive smoking. The law to which it is added is fundamentalist in its origins, and it affects the freedom of the individual. It must be possible for individuals to design their lives and get a quality of life that they themselves want, as long as they do not harm other people. And I'm amazed at the fact that the Right Party has now let itself be bound up with this fundamentalist smoke bill that becomes the most stringent in the world, which will hit the quality of life of very many people, and which at worst may lead to more filling and violence in the homes because you no longer want to go out to restaurants where you can't get a smoke.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e241	I note that in its general comments, the Progress Party addresses a number of actions that should be implemented. I also record that the head of the Committee is strongly correcting the policy put forward by the Government. In its general comments, the Advance Party considers that the burial aid should be continued at the same level as today, and the Progress Party proposes for its part 150 million. kr for continuation of the aid. Similarly, in its general observations, the Progress Party has considerations in a number of areas where there is, in reality, a majority in this Chamber for what the Progress Party is calling for. One could have mentioned the asthma schools as such. You will find many examples in the budget if you look at individual items. When the Progress Party says that they are included in its alternative budget, for example: to keep digging aid at today's level, and there's a majority in this room who are also in favour of it, what could be the reason why it is still not being carried on? Can the chairperson explain to me the reason why the Progress Party can go so high and argue that action is to be continued, while they themselves today will vote against the measures that they both say in their comments are to be continued and that they themselves have attacked the Government not to continue? What is the explanation that the Progress Party can argue that measures that they themselves are going to vote against today will be implemented? I'd like to ask for an explanation from the committee leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e252	If the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo is not able to find the explanation for this himself after having been in this room for several years, I must say I am wondering. It is true that entering into a budgetary settlement with one or more parties – in this case with the government parties – it will never be possible to get a full settlement for all the requirements that the lot may have. We couldn't do that either. I think we're doing a great deal – getting back NOK 1.6 billion out of over NOK 2 billion that was cut and increased excesses – in particular, I mention the peculiarities of the roof that is now back to the old one. To the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo, I would say: the explanation is so simple, but still so difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e267	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e271	On Monday 2 December, the majority of the population adopted the framework for next year's government budget. The framework for the remit of the Social Committee is not sufficient to maintain important welfare systems. The framework also leads to under-funding of health reform. It'll be able to hit the patients next time. The working party regrets that the bulk of the population places tax relief on those who have the most, rather than welfare measures on those who have the least. Lone caregivers receive a reduced allowance for childcare. Only the minimum pensioners will now be exempted from the abstinence of medicines on a blue prescription. The excavation aid shall be terminated. Important schemes for the grant of disabled persons are cut. Let me quote from the comments of the Progress Party in the setting: «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party find the proposal in the State budget to cut the overall gravitational aid of only SEK 4000, thus saving EUR 150 million for the State. crowns as one of the most extremely unsocial proposals in the present state budget.’ Today, this ‘extremely unsocial proposals’ is adopted by the Storting as a consequence of the impact on the majority of population adopted last Monday. The party of progress is trying to appear to be a weak spokesperson, the party for those sitting at the bottom of the table. But that is only the case as long as the party has unlimited financial resources at its disposal, as they have in their more adventure-like alternative state budget. When the party has to choose, when the party comes close to power, we see the true face of the party. At that time, cheaper spirits and cheaper caravans are becoming more important than preventing ‘extremely unsocial proposals’. From New Year's, the Nordics can rejoice that the price of Upper Ten goes down, but the tomb help disappears. Because when the Progress Party had power, when the Advance Party in the budget negotiations had the government's destiny in their hands, they chose the spirit! They removed the tomb help! Well then, the Progress Party has helped to correct many other unsocial cuts that were contained in the Government's proposals for the government budget. However, the party must take responsibility for the decisions which they actually agree to take. I must say that I admire the patience shown by the government parties towards their budgetary partner, because in my opinion, the Progress Party acts with a double morale of the rare. The government is being skin-tipped to make proposals for unsocial cuts. Last Monday, however, the representatives of the Party of Presidents sat here in this Chamber and voted in favour of the framework for these cuts. But they will not have or take any responsibility for this. However, they shall have all the honor for the cut that was reversed. When the Progress Party has power, there won't be five more ears for the hospitals. However, on the day the Social Committee is due to give up its position on the budget for 2002, the party proposes to add 2 billion DKK to the hospitals. This is nothing but a complete undermining of the budgetary agreement they have just concluded. Fortunately, this is not my problem – and thank God for it! The Labour Party believes that the 2003 budget makes the link between the policy of distribution and the capacity of society to combat social injustice well visible. In the government's proposal for a government budget, a reverse Robin Hood policy is added: it is taken from the poor and given to the rich. The Budget Agreement with the Progress Party does not change this main profile. However, it is taken a little less from the poor than the government provided, but it is still taken from the poor. In the presentation of the State budget, the Government tried to produce the budget as a lever to combat poverty. Gradually, one after the other has met the government’s presentation. FFO, Handicap, Velferdsalliansen, Fattighuset and LO are examples of organisations that have almost unambiguously characterised the draft budget as unsocial. True, the Government is proposing new measures to combat poverty. That's good. However, the new measures are proposed to be funded by cutting back on important welfare schemes. It will in turn create new poverty. If you are to fight poverty, you have to distribute better. You have to take from the rich and give to the poor, for example. by introducing tax on dividend dividends. Poverty is not combated by taking from the poor and giving to the very poor. The new healthcare companies have now been in work for almost one year. It has been a demanding start-up year, but I do not think there can be any doubt that the reform has come to a successful conclusion. It is to be commended to the staff, to the new members of the Governing Board, and to the Minister of Health. Nevertheless, of course, it is not that everything is rosy. The companies are struggling with a strenuous economy. Opening balance sheets are not yet in place, and there is a risk that it may take a long time before they are. It inhibits businesses in their financial management. Health reform should lead to increased efficiency in Norwegian hospitals. We're going to get healthier for each of the heads. It shall again lead to shorter waiting times for patients. It is therefore appropriate to impose clear efficiency requirements on undertakings. But I fear that the demands now made on businesses are unrealistic. It can lead to resistance and paralysis of action instead of incitement and implemen­tation. A good pay balance and a significant increase in pension costs result in a billion deficit for health care businesses this year. Everything points to exceptional pension costs next year as well. This meets the bulk of the population by increasing the operational credit framework. The working party regrets that the majority of the population were not willing to increase the appropriations allocated to health businesses at the time of adoption of the budget framework. Let me stress one relationship that it's very important that we do something about. It is unreasonable that the treatment of patients in Norwegian hospitals should fluctuate as the world's stock exchanges rise and fall. For this reason, the Workers’ Party, together with the SV and the Centre in the budgetary position, has proposed that the Government, in the context of the revised national budget, should come back with a government loan or fund scheme to enable health care establishments and partners in the specialist health service to meet their pension obligations. This will be an approach that will provide a significant response to the challenges facing health businesses today. It is regrettable if the majority today vote against this proposal. I have, however, been pleased to note that the budgetary comrades, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party also, in their comments, say that the Government in the revised national budget must consider ‘if necessary, whether additional measures are needed, such as the introduction of a fund scheme’. I would like to take up with this the proposals on which the Labour Party is associated with other parties, and the proposals on which we stand alone, but with the following comments: in the case of proposal No. 6, a enriched version has been distributed in the seats of the representatives. As regards proposal No: 13, the Workers' Party as the proposer. We're not supposed to be. And proposal No. 18 is proposed in consultation with the proposers, turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e304	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has taken up and corrected the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e309	There has been a tradition that responsible parties have adhered to certain guidelines when making proposals. Departmental calculations and estimates from calculation samples have been used to calculate costs and recoveries. This principle now seems to be broken by the Workers' Party. The Working Party rejects the Ministry's proposal for the introduction of a new index system for medicinal products that will save 93 million. kr. Instead, they propose a continuation of the current profit model and an extension of the trading list, which, with some adjustments, appears to provide a saving of 135 million. kr, adjustments that both test the State Medicines Agency and the Population Responsibility Calculation Group. Furthermore, the Workers' Party is involved in over-testing the Medical Products Agency with regard to proposing to amend the prescription rules for the blue prescription by allowing a triple prescription, so that the asthma medicine Singulair can be prescribed in combination with other medicines. It has budgetary implications. How much do you know, but nothing has been added from the Workers' Party. In addition, it is an premature interference to become case handlers on professional medical matters – a more detailed procedure, a procedure that the batches earlier in the suspension depart from. What material does the Workers' Party have, which means that they know more than the State Medicines Agency and the Population Security Calculation Group? Or do they hear more about the pharmaceutical industry than they do in the department? In the light of these examples, it is natural to ask the largest party of the Storting whether it is such that the Workers' Party has become a party with split personality – a personality in position and a personality in opposition. Will we continue to experience that the Workers' Party is undermining a system in which a quality assurance body proposes budget proposals through questions to the Council of State, and rather chooses to base its own or stakeholder organisations' figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e320	Yes, different behaviour in position and in opposition is well an exercise at least right after right knows quite well. What we want to underline is that of course we are very responsible for important and major societal issues. From the moment our state budget was presented, we have put down a considerable amount of activity in terms of calculating different costs related to the medical field. We have also asked a number of questions to the Ministry, in the first round via the Financial Committee. We have tried to get answers to questions that we believe we have not received a satisfactory answer. That's why we've gone heavily into the cost calculation for our own keel, spent considerable energy and time on it, and we believe, of course, that the cost figures, and the figures we're generally operating with, are sound and reliable. I can, of course, provide a longer written documentation on it if it is requested, without wanting to take it to the pulpit and refer it here and now. The working party will never stop taking this job seriously, and we have also done a serious and real job in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e331	I have with amazement registered the reason the Workers' Party provides in the setting of the cap. 719 item 72 to reduce the AAN Office appropriations by 10 million. kr. The reason is that ‘prevention abortion can be done through better use of economic resources’, construed as meaning: that of the AAN offices. This is with respect to notifying an insinuation against the non-documentable AAN offices. It is absolutely not correct that the resources of the AAN offices are not used up to the maximum in the prevention of abortion. They are increasingly being asked for in this issue, both in terms of information, competences and individual cases. If it is the case that the Workers' Party does not tolerate a private enterprise, based on the Christian basic values, to participate in abortion prevention work, I think the Workers' Party should be honest enough to say it outright so that everyone understands what they mean, and does not use subservient arguments and insinuate that the AAN offices do not do their job and use the resources to the maximum. Can the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, document the claims made by the Labour Party in the budgetary position?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e338	Let me first say that I think it was an interesting theme the representative Alvheim put into his line, thinking about my post, which was a complete review of the role the Progress Party has had in relation to the budget of the Social Committee this autumn. I pointed out in detail and clearly that these 'extremely unsocial' cuts were just adopted on the basis of the votes of the Progress Party. When the chairman of the committee then chooses to come back with a reply about the AAN offices, I choose to interpret it as if my criticism was striking. With regard to the AAN offices, it is not the case that the Workers' Party proposes to wind up the aid. We propose a strong cut – there are other parties that propose to phase out the aid in full. We're proposing a cut of 10 million. kr, as far as I remember, and that is a significant cut. The fact that we propose this significant cut has nothing to do with the fact that it is an organization with Christian fundamental values, but we believe clearly that organizations with Christian fundamental values must also be able to meet requirements for efficiency. THE Committee was consulted, and several questions were asked to them. We believe that there is absolute reason to ask questions about resource use in AAN – how much it costs to provide the help they provide, for example. If you start dividing it per. consultation. From that point of view, we believe that it is entirely right to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e347	The Labour Party and SV were on each side when the law on health enterprises and the drafting of the legal text were in force. Among other things, SV was concerned that there should be transparency in the administration when it comes to the administration. We were also concerned that the Storting must have a much stronger governance right in relation to the overall health policy objectives we are going to have, including: by adopting decisions on national health plans. What we in SV record, and which we are pleased about, is that a good part of the criticism we made already when the law was passed, the Workers' Party also comes along now. Many of the same concerns that we had, we see that the Workers' Party in retrospect is also starting to join. But what is important in extending it is to have a device attached to the law itself, which allows for political overall governance with what is now to be done under the direction of health businesses. We see that there are a number of dramatic changes going on. We see it in maternity care, we see it in relation to the emergency centres with centralization, and we see it in other areas. This means that there may be a need to take action where the Storting gets more control. We see traces of this in the position of the Social Committee now, by beginning to comment on individual measures that are in the process of being implemented, including: in the case of neonatal care. In the view of SV, it must be the general grips that it is central to Stortingen to take, not to go in and decide on individual sites. So, as we see now, Ålesund and Bodø have been commented on directly with regard to neonatal care, while it is difficult to include the committee in a general consideration of the structure it should have. My question to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is whether the Workers' Party will look at the legislation itself relating to the Health Business Act, see if the Stortinget should make a greater contribution and make an overall premise for it instead of a detailed board, as you can now see in the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e356	To answer the question quite specifically first: No, we do not believe that there is a basis for looking at all or part of the law to review governance, management systems, etc. What we believe is very important is that all of us who are happy in, and who are in favour of, the health reform – as opposed to what SV was – are constantly engaged in evaluating and reforming the health reform. In Norway, there is a kind of political tradition that you are either in favour of or against some law, some sort of reform. Once it has been adopted and implemented, it is such that everyone who was in favour of the reform initially must constantly defend the impact of the reform. And anyone who was opposed has a tendency – at any time – to be consistent with everything that is happening in the wake of the reform. In the context of the health reform, which is a very comprehensive, large and important reform, I believe that we – not least all of us who were in favour and who are happy in the health reform – need to constantly assess it with a critical look with a view to continuously improving it, so that it can be the success that the Labour Party and I think it will be. Therefore, we will be constantly open to input and debate on how health reform works, with a view to continuously and continuously presenting proposals for changes. I agree with the representative, Ballo, that there are aspects to this with the management of various offers, where we have not fully completed. That's why we have to keep looking at the interaction between the Storing, the Council of State and the corporations and look at how it works. We believe that it is legal to do so per year. today is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e365	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e368	We have soon left behind the first year of government responsibility for the specialist health service. It is amazing how much has happened this year and how quickly health businesses have put the new governance tools into use. Building plans are reviewed, health provision in the regions is seen in the context, it is cleared in the waiting lists, and there is more competition for patients. The result is reduced waiting lists and waiting times and more use of the free hospital choice. The companies deserve praise for this work. No one claims to control this sector in the new system is not tough, but I believe that with the tools we have now been given through the reform, it is, unlike in the past, possible. But the reform is not over. The government is now working on three issues that, in my opinion, will have a major impact on the situation of patients and the content of the hospital reform. The three issues are a new funding system, changes to the Patient Rights Act and national waiting lists. Hopefully this will work from 2004, and then we will experience that patients are increasingly given choices and that hospitals focus on exploiting their capacity. The private health professionals have been given a completely new position. The discussion we had a few years ago about a two-part healthcare system in which someone could afford to buy out of the health care system has, fortunately, become a discussion about how private actors can become an integral part of the public supply, for the benefit of all patients regardless of the financial situation. We see that some regional health companies are better off than others to enter into agreements with private hospitals and private contract specialists. Health Nord, for example, is more reluctant to conclude such agreements than Health West. This will be a dilemma if patients in a region can choose freely private contract specialists or private hospitals throughout the country, while patients in other regions do not have the same choice. It is not right for the patient’s freedom of choice to be limited by the fact that regional health businesses have different practices in concluding contracts with private health providers. It is therefore important that the Government Parties, together with the Advance Party, have agreed that regional health companies must conclude joint agreements with private hospitals. I would also like to commend the Council of State for the way in which he has taken responsibility for implementing one of the major reforms in the public sector. In the context of the budget, changes have also been proposed to reduce the growth of medical expenditure. In the future, several of the lifestyle medicines, which take a significant part of the reimbursement share of the prescription scheme, will lose their patents. We cannot accept in a situation where new, expensive, innovative medicines are constantly coming that can help patients better, that we have a system that still gives the original medicines far too little competition. I am proud that the Government is willing to use strong instruments to achieve this goal, and I am pleased that SV – not surprisingly – also supports this policy. It is more surprising that the Labour Party does not do so, but we will have to come back to that in future debates. I would also like to stress that the government parties support the amendments mentioned in the regulation of the bladder, and also refer to the forthcoming discussion and debate on Ot.prp. No 16th@item: It is very gratifying that this government has the ability to do what no one has done before, to introduce a roof 2 scheme to better protect the chronically ill. It's been a struggle for the government parties for a long time, and now it's going to be a reality. Together with the user organisations, a system has been developed that will have a major impact on all those who have high health costs, especially to have a better functioning everyday life. If one in welfare policy chooses to have the objective that the state should be everything for everyone, we will end up with a welfare system that is not for anyone. It has not been long since the fight against poverty was the struggle to get the Workers' Party to recognise that there was poverty in Norway, in one of the world's richest countries. Then the fight against poverty became a discussion about cohesion and equality, where the solution was to do something about the so-called rich in society, but where one did not focus so much on the poor. The Government has now presented a poverty report, which, together with the budget, contains concrete, targeted measures to reach those who fall through in today’s welfare system. However, the review of poverty in Norway shows that the most important thing will still be to focus on the possibility of working as much as possible, continuing to strengthen the treatment provision of mentally ill people, and not least to give drug users the same rights as other patients and a good treatment provision. This is a tipping point and a priority in welfare policy that will be met with a lot of criticism in the short term, but which I am convinced over time will prove to be the right way. I would like to commend the Minister of Social Affairs for starting this work offensively, and now it is well under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e400	The intention agreement has three objectives: several older people in work, several in work and a reduction of sick leave by 20 pst. The right threatens to reduce the sick pay scheme if the objective has not been achieved by the evaluation to be carried out one year after the signature of the contract of intention. In a few months, one year has passed, but after nine months it was only about. half of the employees of the Rikstrøgdeverket in place, and 95 pst. of the business organisation grants were unused. From this point of view, I would venture to make the claim that the Government has not followed up on its obligations to put the instrument in place. Does the representative, Bent Höie, think that one of these will be able to get a realistic picture of whether the instruments of the agreement can deliver results at this stage? Will the Right contribute to a realistic results evaluation when the instrument is in place and has a chance to work? Will the Right contribute to the postponement of the evaluation time, so that we get a realistic evaluation? And will the Right contribute to the absence of uncertainty among workers by constantly threatening the possible reduction of the sickness pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e409	I would like to thank the representative Britt Hildeng for the questions, because it gives me the opportunity to make a confession. When the intention agreement was concluded while the Workers' Party was in government, I must say that I was very sceptical. I looked at it as a political evasiveness to get away from the unpleasant fact that the party was working with limitations in relation to the sickness pay scheme. But when one has had the opportunity to work with the contract of intention, look at the content of it and not least the way it was received both on the employer's side and on the employee's side, and the enthusiasm shown by all the parties, including the Government, in relation to this agreement, I have become a hot follower of both the contract of intention and the instruments contained in the contract. I believe that no matter what the evaluation of next year will show in relation to results, one does not escape the fact that the instruments contained in the intention agreement are the most important instruments in terms of reducing sick leave. If a person is unable to take responsibility for the employer and the employee in the situation in which he is and to make this a problem that one must address locally, we will never solve this problem. So ask the representative Hildeng if the Right will help postpone the evaluation time. After all, the timing of the evaluation is part of the agreement between the parties, and it would make sense for the Workers' Party to have the same pragmatic approach to this intentional agreement as they have to the health reform: that one looks along the way at things that work, and things that don't work, and be willing to take things up for discussion and not freeze in one position and one time and feel that it's the right thing all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e416	At the end of his speech, the representative, Höie, was concerned about poverty issues and people with difficulties. In this respect, I would like to refer to the following from the State budget: the general aid for the tomb is proposed to be removed. The credit card limit is proposed to be increased from NOK 1 350 to NOK 1 850. Exemptions from the accruals of minimum pensioners and gratuities introduced on 1 October shall be removed in full. The threshold of basic income is reduced from 1 G to 0,1 G. Ownership shares in prescriptions are increased from 360 DKK to 400 DKK. Deductions from high disease costs are eliminated. It must be difficult to stand up and defend a social budget and talk about poverty when making a budget proposal with this social profile. In this connection, we are pleased that we have managed to bring down the self-interest from NOK 1850, which was proposed, to NOK 1 350. The deduction of high disease costs has been reduced. The FDI is back to 1 G. In the case of exemptions from the excess interests of pensioners and disabled persons, we have at least got the minimum pensioner scheme back. It is quite clear that the social profile that has been posted by the Government is not entirely in line with what the representative Höie spoke about at the end of his article. My question to the representative Höie will be: is this the form of poverty reduction that this government is going to take? And is this the new social profile of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e427	I must honestly admit that I am not completely familiar with the black paint that the representative from the Progress Party is coming along with. Because it's clear that if we're going to be able to improve the welfare society we know, we have to be willing to eat the welfare offer. In its outline, the representative Nesvik clearly forgets all the positive things proposed in this budget, and what a very fundamental step is being taken, namely to reach those who fall outside today's welfare society. For the first time in a budget, an action plan against poverty and drug use is launched in Norway. 400 million. allocated to new measures. One hundred and seventy-five million. kr is granted as earmarked places in relation to labour market measures for long-term recipients of social assistance. For too many years it has been accepted that people go on social assistance for a long time without helping them back to work. The housing aid scheme for families with children is improved by 77 million. kr. The right to transitional benefits in the course of training for lone dependants is extended by 35 million. kr. Follow-up homes for homeless people are strengthened by 30 million. kr. An action plan on drug problems of 65.5 million was launched. kr. And apart from that, you have the greatest strength in relation to psychiatry. These are measures that are completely concrete and targeted at those who really need it. Now, when the Progress Party has landed on a track where they defend all the previous arrangements, and is not willing to have a critical review and see if the arrangements are targeted and reach those who need it, but are involved in a social debate that involves taking tax money from everyone and distributing it back to everyone from the state, it is a wonderful line from the Progress Party, and I do not know the party as it now turned out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e436	Right is a party that speaks hotly for the private initiative and for volunteering. Then it becomes a little strange that this is not followed up, for example. in health and social policy. In the case of volunteer centres, it was actually in the 2002 budget, i.e. what we were dealing with for approx. A year ago, there was enough money to run volunteer centres, and that it would be enough to start new ones, because you had a certain departure. This was absolutely wrong, and cannot be described as anything other than that. This year, too, there is no promise in this voluntary sector. After all, one annual paid work in the volunteer centres triggers two and a half voluntary annual works. But it's so bad with the economy there now that you're losing the fires that you've been assigned to run the volunteer centres. Many municipalities are not allowed to start because they do not provide the scars that are to be shared between the state, municipalities and non-governmental organisations. And that's very bad. So a little bit to the private actors in the health market. Training institutions have demonstrated for many years that they are able to deliver very good public health products, but the training institutions are struggling. – Now I have little time, so I will conclude by asking the Right: What will the Right do if there are even more bankruptcies now in the area of training institutions and rehabilitation services in this country? You just want to sit passive and make sure that these are gone, or you want to do something to keep these actors going, for the benefit of patients who need rehabilitation sites and offers to get back to, for example. an active and inclusive working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e447	With regard to the volunteer centres, I will definitely join the representative of Lutvold's positive mention of these and the important work that is going on there. We believe that there is considerable financial resources in place to maintain this offer and to facilitate continued volunteering. And in a number of other areas of the budget, transfers to voluntary work and voluntary organisations are strengthened. It's more surprising that Glow violence chooses a way of attacking us in relation to the training institutions. This budget, for the first time by the Government, takes an important step towards lifting the training institutions into the ordinary system of specialist health services. One points out a path that will give them stable conditions, not least by allowing them to enter a system that provides the patient with a quality-related safety and provides predictable framework conditions. Apart from this, the government parties in Stortinget, in cooperation with the Progress Party, have strengthened the economy of the training institutions in the 2002 Budget Agreement on the State Budget. In cooperation with the Progress Party in the context of the revised 2002 national budget, we gave priority to strengthening the economy of the training institutions. And last but not least, in the context of the budgetary agreement concluded with the 2003 Progress Party, we have been able to give 17 million priority. kr in addition to that already provided by the Government, in order to strengthen the economy of the training institutions and to strengthen the price of the training day. The problem would be if you put yourself on the line of the Center Party and the flat authorized to open up to any new institution, without being able to prioritize. That's what's been a bit of a problem in this area, that new institutions have always come along, with no new money. Thus, the economy has become worse and worse along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e458	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e461	Before I went up and held this post, I looked through the papers that were on my desk, and found the budget setting from the church, education and research committee. I tried to identify part of the costs specified in that budget, and discovered that I was wrong. Finally, three zeros were missing, as found in the Health Budget, but not found in the Church, Education and Research Committee. The reason for this is that the entire overall draft budget is about 31 billion kroner, a figure that's a little bit higher than just for paying sick money in our budget. I record that the figures we operate with only related to the payment of medicines, estimated at SEK 7.3 billion for 2003, represent total investments for all public transport in Norway: buses, trams, T-Bahns including the entire train network, and all NSB's operating and investing expenditure. I'm left with a stronger and stronger experience that when we deal with our budgets, we don't shudder beyond that. We're not looking at what's going to happen if we don't get control of the expenditure growth, if we don't take the evolution we're now seeing, among other things. in the case of medicinal products, and ask us, how do we best use them? How do we ensure that as many patients as possible can get help from those resources? How do we ensure in other areas of society where people need help, that there are resources available so that they can get that help? As long as each committee concentrates only on its own small field of expertise, or large disciplines for our part, it will not be possible to pursue a coherent policy development that meets the overall needs of the population. And some of the most grotesque statements -- I don't think the word 'grotesque' is unparliamentary -- we've seen about this lack of overall thinking, about taking a social responsibility and saying that now we're going in and we're heading in a direction that we think is decent, we've seen from the Progress Party here today. In this context, we can see that, in the context of a budgetary position, we are arguing as if we were making our own proposals, putting our own budgets forward, making our own policies, and then we have reached a compromise with the Government, which really determines the direction of policy, we must take responsibility for it and say that we are in fact in agreement with the Government. Here you run a reindeer double accounting as if you are in opposition to the policy you are in for adoption. In some areas, especially in the framework area 15, which has to do with social policy, the distance between SV and the Government is probably quite large. But in many of the areas we're talking about in terms of health policy, I don't think initially it needs to be very large. I think it's possible to get a policy with a direction and a goal that makes it possible to use resources in a better way than it is today. But it will require a kind of cooperation that makes you take on commitments, and where you also take the responsibility that goes with it. It is not then possible to deal with these issues as the Progress Party does, where it is presented to the public as opposed to what is actually for and today to sit and adopt. One of the things that is becoming most central to intervention is precisely cost developments in areas where costs are so high that if we don't get them down, we don't have funds left for other areas. There are two areas that I think are extremely central, not least the cost growth in the hospital sector. We need to find tools, methods and targets for the operation of hospitals that make the money more targeted than today. I am surprised when we from SV have pointed out some of the results you are starting to see in the direction of health companies, that no more have signaled the same concern. I've pulled out the Celebrating Clinic on several occasions. The celebration clinic is an example of a good and well-trained clinic that through its heart surgery helps to shorten waiting lists. We've seen that. There can be no doubt about that. But it can't be right to develop a salary level for Norwegian doctors where millions of revenues are generated on an annual basis. I now heard from Health Mid-Norway that there was a grant for salaries for doctors of over NOK 100 000 on an annual basis – from a budget that we sit and manage, and where a number of communications were received from health care companies that the resources do not go to! Then, as the granting authority, we have to engage in how these funds are actually being used, and add leadership for their use. If we don't care about it, it hits the other parts of the business, and it also affects the patients. I record that you get some kind of tabloidization also of the policy that we're going to stand for in this room and in this building, which makes it almost impossible for them outside to orient themselves in relation to what's really happening. And when you look at the press bench here today that the press is not there, it is not nice that they are not informed about it either. The SV is convinced that there is a funding system for hospitals today that is mature for audit and that it needs to be thoroughly reviewed and brought back to the Stortinget for assessment. We are also more and more concerned about the need to have overall decisions in the Storting which are leading health policy, but which are not as detailed as what is now seen in the Committee. I think this is a good example of how wrong we are going to be, when you get a discussion about newborn care, where you can – affordable enough – be concerned about the quality, but where the overall is in a way «Shit in Norway, live the Toten!» One mentions Ålesund and Bodø, as if in the social committee we should have some professional evidence to claim that the offer, for example. are worse, better or different in Fredrikstad or in other central hospital facilities with this type of function. The point is that here the social committee has been faced with a relatively impossible situation. This is an example of that. Another example is medicines, where we go into a level of detail, and where we lack the necessary knowledge to be able to say what we are saying, instead of actually saying at a general level something about how the policy should be. That is the reason why Stortinget should be given, and we do not have it today by legislation. In return, we will have to make sure that we do not go into the detail when it is implemented as the Storting has said to be implemented. I see that the scope of action that health businesses have received today gives a number of results that must be negative over time. If I take an example from my own home country, it is now a matter of winding up one of two emergency centres – in a state as large as Denmark. Even at an emergency centre, local skills are required to provide the right information for rapid action. Clearly, if the Storting does not have a general level of involvement with how the structure of that type of service should be, we have taken away from ourselves a political tool for governing health policy. SV has been concerned with psychiatry and the supply of psychiatric patients. I have to say, and I am quite honest, that I believe that the Council of State has generally had a good grip on health policy in Norway. But I have become more and more uncertain about psychiatry in concrete terms, about whether the Council of State and the Government have been gripped by the policy that has been signaled to date. The reason for this is that we get so many messages from different health companies and from different institutions about cutting off an offer where the Stortinget has said that you need to have a stepping-up plan, where you need to strengthen services, where you need to get out better. It seems alarming to us that today there is more than three months waiting to receive psychiatric treatment for children and young people, approximately. half for adults, and we know that the conditions for which treatment is sought are very serious. It can be children and young people who are psychotic, who are paranoid, have delusions. There may be malnourishment conditions, some of which may be significant, serious conditions in which there is no proper offer at present. And it's clear that if the consequence when you're going to bet so much and bet especially on an area is that you're actually getting cut, there's so little agreement between what the Greatness has decided, and what's going on, that there's reason to ask for the results you're now going to see of this escalation. I hope that the Council of State gets into its article. I will come back later to some points I have not been mentioned here. SV has been concerned with balancing the differences between dentistry and health for the rest, and is concerned with the fact that in the big picture that the Stortinget has asked the Government to come, now has a roof, and that the Government is flagging positions related to dental health in general. Otherwise SV takes up the suggestions we have made. And proposal No. 23 we will support. And I would like to stress that we support the proposals regarding the blue-receptive system that the Government has put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e493	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e498	The tabloidisation of health policy in this Chamber is not least the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo also an extreme spokesman for. What surprises me after that review of Ballo's medical policy, about how flawed it is, about how much we use, and why we need a system change, is that the representative Ballo is involved in all the proposals in the vote that deal with over-management in relation to the different medicinal products. But in one area, the representative Ballo is not included. It's about getting the review that Ballo draws up to the great heights of the pulpit in order for us to get to. That's right, Ballo! Then Ballo talks about newborn care and «Shit in Norway, live the Toten!» Well, I can refer to the proposal made by the representative of Ballo: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess how to ensure the economic basis for the continued use of MR bus in Finnmark, rented out from Finland.’ The debate that Ballo is going to start here, he's not least exponent for himself. In addition, it's an area that SV really attracts, and it's AAN. Here you remove the entire AAN allocation. They say that the work that AAN has done or could do is not worth anything, or that others can do so much better. Is it simply because this is a Christian organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e515	Nesvik raises three issues that are difficult to answer at the same time. To take AAN first: I think the organisation is doing a lot of useful work, but with the form you have chosen to give the support, that is, that it should also be to inform you before an abortion, there will be an unfortunate connection. It should not have been linked to such an activity, as it should be a life-vision neutral information prior to such an intervention. That's the SV's principal position and the reason why we cut the support. As far as the pharmaceutical policy is concerned, I cannot see any inconsistencies on the part of SV at all. We see that with the index-based system it's added up to, you have a chance to get control. What we have also ensured, for which we have been given a majority, is that the system should be evaluated as early as one year. In this way, we are ensuring exactly what Harald Tom Nesvik is asking for, namely a review of the pharmaceutical policy. So to the MR bus, when it's first mentioned here. It is clear that what we have come across in so many areas that it will have consequences for the whole country. I think that MR-bus is something you should have had in far more states than just Finnmark. It's an affordable initiative you've taken to start it. The option for each individual with which magnetic tomography is to be performed is a journey from Finnmark tour Oslo due to long waiting time in Tromsø, and costs per. travel will be of the order of NOK 6 000 to DKK 7 000 per person. patients. Then you rent a bus that costs NOK 250,000 in rent, and then you do 80 surveys, which gives you a significant savings for the Rikstrøgdeverket. The unfortunate thing is, however, that it is the Riksstrøgdeverket and not the health companies that save money, which thus receives additional costs rather than savings by starting such a scheme. I believe that on the basis of the system that has been established in Finnmark, one should look at such a system in other states. SV will consistently support such an approach if it is implemented in other countries. But the initiatives are now being taken out of health businesses, in line with what the Progress Party has wanted, and not in the Storting, where we should have been leading the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e530	AAN is a life-vision neutral organization, not a Christian organization, as it was enlightened before today. On a life-view neutral basis, it provides help, support, advice and guidance in situations where someone is unyielding or has other problems with it. ACCORDING to their competence, students, health stations, military camps and high schools are in great demand, and more and more people want help and support from them. Last year, a joint committee in connection with the State budget said the following: ‘The Committee considers it important to support the Foundation AAN, which aims to protect the unborn by offering advice, assistance and support to women or couples who have become unwanted.’ I'm wondering what's happened last year to this year when SV starts giving a very good and positive review of not being able to do it this year. That they didn't have money either last year or this year is a matter for themselves. But the positive review is missing. I should like to right that. Otherwise, I would like to pay tribute to Ballo for the article, which was well worth listening to. He took up a number of important problem settings in which he is very right, and which are in line with what the Christian People's Party and the government party stand for. Those were constructive thoughts. But in this field, I do not have a reason for an important drop out of an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e544	I have registered when I went through the budget position from last year, that we have a note that we are not going to stand up for. I don't think that's just about us, but there other parties get to answer for themselves. What we did last year was the exact same thing as this year. We suggested that this appropriation should not go to AAN, and we have suggested that not just this year and last year, but we have proposed it throughout the last few years. Then I would say that there is a big difference between not giving a grant to an organisation on given terms and believing that the organisation cannot serve good purposes. I have great respect for voluntary work in many organizations, not least for Christian organizations. I think that AAN can do a useful job of informing about alternatives to abortion, but primarily to people who are not pregnant. You're going to reach those groups at a time when they're not in a situation where they're going to seek abortion, and then you're going to be guided. The connection between the purpose of the organisation and it, as I see it, life-vision neutral guidance that you will then provide, seems to me and SV to be very problematic. I have registered that the Workers' Party has taken the same position. Among other things, I can Remember that the issue has been raised in the Health magazine Puls, and that Marit Nybakk then addressed the exact same issue. It is therefore not the SV's desire to bring the organisation AAN to life, but to avoid the link between, in a situation where someone is pregnant, the organisation's aim is to prevent abortion and to provide information to the person who is pregnant at the same time. We think that's unfortunate. It should be the public health service, or health workers, who, on a neutral basis, provide the information in such a situation, rather than AAN. But if you're able to put a lead on the use of the funds where the information is given in other contexts, and not in what I specifically mention now, I think I can assure you that SV will be involved in furthering a support in some form to AAN.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e553	I think it's a little important to clarify that it's not the MR bus that was criticized by me from the pulpit instead. It was the reasoning of the representative Ballo, where he raids over the other people in the committee who have fronted a lot of things, while he does it himself. That's the relationship I showed you. What Ballo did not respond to, as I asked for after his posts, was why Ballo voted against an overall review of the pharmaceutical policy in Norway as long as he keeps the post that he is making, as long as he is also, like others in the committee and in this room, actually committed to looking at the total pharmaceutical policy and the reimbursement arrangements that exist. But Ballo goes against it in the committee. With regard to the index-based generic system being introduced, the major change that is being made there is that the state takes care of its own interests, and then it ensures that the costs are passed on by itself and over to either the pharmacy or the patient by the way this is arranged. That's what this system is all about. Ballo also says in his post that one should come back with an evaluation after one year. As far as I know, in the context of the 2004 revision, it is possible that such a review should be brought back, while the system should be put in place immediately over the New Year. Following Mr Ballo's statement, I would like to ask: why is there a total vote against a review of the pharmaceutical policy when that is what was the conclusion of 70 p.m. of his articles?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e562	It seems that the representative Nesvik wears with a percentage if it is to be 70 pst. by the article – but it is now. I also registered that it was said that this is a way for the state to take care of its interests. If you are going to go in and take responsibility for a budget, you have to see that you have a responsibility to take care of the interests of the state. If we are to be indifferent to how those funds are used, what kind of leads are being provided for them, and what is the consequence, we should not enter into budgetary settlements. It is now my personal view in that matter. With regard to pharmaceutical policy, I would like to say that when action is taken, it is necessary to take a while to see if it is effective. The first opportunity we have to look at it after one year of work is in the revised national budget for 2004. We cannot, of course, look at this in the context of the State budget, which is being prepared for six months before the scheme has been in force for one year. We have to wait until then. If you want to look at the effects, you actually have to look at them after the arrangement has worked for a while. To take a holistic view of pharmaceutical policy, we need to have longer time than just one year. Otherwise, I actually see that if you make agreements and if you mean something in common, that means commitments. We can put ourselves on a line that's going to strain the government's reef hook after first making agreements, but I think that's a very unreasonable approach. You actually have to be inside for what you do. We believe that the impact we have received on the revision of the 2004 national budget will assess the key areas in which we are involved in the field of pharmaceutical policy. If there's a need to consider expanding it later, we'll come back and support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e573	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e576	The Social Committee is responsible for almost one third of the entire State budget. Our priorities are important to most, but most of all to those who are struggling with disease, and those who, for various reasons, cannot work. The Christian People's Party wants to help the weakest. One of these groups is patients with mental disorders. Follow-up and strengthen the escalation plan by 670 million. kr – the largest increase in one year! At the same time, there is room for efficiency and improvement, especially in child and youth psychiatry. It is important that the Minister of Health continues his great commitment to this group and takes care that every penny allocated to this group benefits the group. At the same time, prevention is important. Health centres for young people who catch up with their problems at an early stage are a good tool. Too many young people struggle with suicidal thoughts, try drugs, and suffer from eating disorders. The last group has received help abroad. At the same time, skills are being developed in Norway, including: is a regional team established in Health Mid-Norway. Modum Bad is beginning to gain experience with this group, and not least giving their own websites to young people the opportunity to get answers from professionals. It is important to strengthen the self-esteem of young people. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the treatment offered to drug users is part of the specialist health service. Thus, drug users are granted treatment rights that can help them out of an unworthy situation. That's 65.5 million. In the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the European Union is estimated at around EUR 10 million, compared with the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the European Union. The noise case presents us with new alcohol policy challenges. For this reason, it is more important than ever that a restrictive action be taken to increase the age of young people’s drug onset. The Christian People's Party recommends that the municipalities establish beer monopoly instead of the rushing shower at the shops. For the first time, an action package on poverty and drug use was launched in Norway. 400 million. allocated to new measures. This target is targeted at those with the greatest problems, namely long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and immigrants who need to be better qualified for the labour market. Getting work and caring for yourself is important, although not all things work full time. It's worth your while to use your ability to work. It is important that both state and employer rates on schemes in order to succeed in an inclusive working life. Many of us are pleased that there was no lifting of self-interest 1. All major users of healthcare such as physiotherapy, reimbursable dental health, stay in training establishments and climate travel may now be covered by these costs after the self-employment rate 2 of NOK 4500 has been reached. This is a long-awaited scheme by user organisations, which is now finally in place. I'm proud of that. The Christian People's Party has been fighting for many years to increase the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. The budgetary agreement with the Progress Party has led us to start in 2003 on a stepping-up plan to increase the basic pension to 1.7 G during the ageing period. This is also an extended system that is now in place. Finally, I would like to mention that hospitals will receive NOK 2 billion more at their disposal next year and can thus maintain a historically high level of patient treatment. Better registration of waiting lists, free hospital choice and the extension of the ISF scheme to private hospitals contracted by regional health establishments will underline this positive trend. For those who have no hope of improvement, it is important to have good care and care at the end of life. For $29 million. kr shall improve the supply of human beings in the final phase of life. In particular, an additional refund shall be provided for in the ISF scheme in the case of a relieving process. The Christian People's Party supports this. The debate on active death aid has flared up again. It is contrary to Norwegian law and contrary to all the Christian People's Party is putting in a health service with respect for human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e607	The first thing I came up with during the debate here earlier today was a saying: What about enemies, when you have such friends? I must say that I have almost been hurt by the Christian People's Party so far in the debate, for it must be sad for the Christian People's Party to have budgetary friends who kick so hard on the rails. Our training institutions will now have a hard time. All are likely to have to significantly reduce operations or rely on borrowing. The Christian People's Party has not lifted one finger to do anything about it. New uncertainties are now being created by the introduction of a new funding system, and they are being abandoned by health businesses. Doesn't the Christian People's Party worry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e614	I think maybe Gunn Olsen's representative is a little wrong about choosing friends. I have to say that some of the things I'm actually a little excited about in the budget deal with the Progress Party are that we've increased the appropriations for the training institutions by 17 million. Extra kroner. If that's enough, you can discuss it. What is important is that we have also launched a funding mechanism in which user organisations have been strongly involved, which is a good start. We have said that it should be a specialist health service that should be below health care establishments. We start gently and have an escalating along the way. When health establishments are given an order role, they can order what is of good quality and the training institutions must themselves ensure that they have a good product to sell. This will give patients a better offer. They will receive a qualitatively good offer, that is Christian People's Party agreed. In the new scheme, there is also room for new institutions, and if you have a good product to sell, health businesses will use them. So I just have to say that I'm happy for what we've done with the training institutions. I think we're starting on the right path. There's always room for improvement, but we've come a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e623	I had not expected a government with a prime minister from the Christian People's Party to propose to remove the tomb support and thus stigmatise the poorest among us. That is what the Christian People's Party is doing in the current budgetary position. One should know that there are a significant number of poor people, not least among our minimum pensioners, who have financial problems related to death. We should all know that older people have a dignity and a self-respect that does not invite to seek help from the poor people in such situations. From the Nett newspaper of 5 December, it appears that a municipal politician from the Christian People's Party in Brønnøysund actually suggests that family and acquaintances should be able to dig their loved ones' grave. I would like to ask the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund the following question: How does the proposal to remove the general tomb support and the proposal that the family should dig the grave of their loved ones, with the value view of the Christian People's Party forefects? In fact, Matthew 8 says, "Let the dead bury their dead," but I actually didn't think this would be taken literally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e631	Our human vision is about having respect for human dignity and it's about having respect for the weakest, even the smallest pensioners, of whom the representative Alvheim was concerned. I take it seriously that a party colleague is concerned about the local economy, but what that representative was talking about has nothing to do with gravitational assistance. The Tombs Act states that one should have the right to a free grave at the cemetery in the municipality in which one lives, usually for 20 years, and the Christian People's Party has no plans to change that law. In the case of burial aid, it shall go to the deceased, so that they can pay for a worthy burial – it may be a wreath, it may be a coffin, it may be a memorial. It sounds as if the tomb support has been removed. It's not, it's just become more focused, and it's Christian People's Party in agreement. Most of us have the opportunity to have a worthy funeral. But in the case of those who struggle financially, who have difficulty, the Christian People's Party wants them to have a worthy funeral and then have to cover the entire amount of the funeral. It is intended for approx. 15 000 kroner, so the amount is set at exactly that. So it sounds like there's no need test today. That's it. For those who want to keep the current system: it also needs tested. I also think that the representative of Alvheim should take this with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e642	In the introduction to the Government's action plan on poverty, which was presented earlier in the autumn, it is called, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In particular, it is unacceptable that children live in poverty. Disabled children’s families are a priority target group in the overall effort to combat poverty.’ This is SV very much in agreement. Poverty in Norway is unnecessary, poverty among children is both unnecessary and totally unacceptable, as SV sees it. Many of the children living in poverty in today’s Norway are the children of lonely dependants. In the agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, a cut of 30 million was made. kr in social benefits for the care of lone dependants. These arrangements have been introduced, inter alia: to stimulate and facilitate the participation in education and working life of lone carers. The cut of this system will include, among other things: could lead to the return of lone carers who have come to work. In any case, this narrowing will affect the economy of families with children and thus children. One of the heart issues of the Christian People's Party is a good policy for the families of children, and the question of the Christian People's Party then becomes: Does Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund think that the tightening up of the Christian People's Party here has been in favour of child custody is suitable to meet the objectives of the Government's action plan against poverty? And secondly, does Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party are the best allies for the Christian People's Party here in the Stortningen in the fight against poverty, especially poverty among children?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e656	Finally, I would say that the Christian People's Party is always trying to be a bridge builder so that we can make unanimous decisions and we can all stand together in the fight against poverty, which concerns most of us. I have very good experience with the Socialist Left in that context, and I hope that will continue. As far as the poverty package is concerned, it is made up of many parts. A target of labour market measures, and not least one shall also involve non-governmental organisations. However, when it comes to child care, it is important to remember – SV has, among other things. be involved in a kindergarten settlement – that now the price of kindergarten places is falling, so it doesn’t mean much. And it's also important to think about the fact that most single-parents are at work, many of them have extra child contributions, and they also have supplements in the case of grants to children. We have also put in place other schemes that are good for single dependants. We have now said in the budget that the transitional aid should be so that single-parents can continue training they have started. Because we think the most important thing is to acquire skills, so that you can get into work and thus take care of yourself. I don't have time to go into it, but in this context, what the government is doing with SATS will also be a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e666	There's not so much a row of 5 minutes when you have so much to go through, but I would like to point out first that the centre party provides with its own budget framework when dealing with the budget framework 15 and 16. We do that in order to illustrate and focus on the needs that we believe are there in the health and social sector, and because we do not want to do double accounting and refer to an alternative budget and at the same time participate in the good solutions that may also be in some decimals of the budget that will be adopted here today. We believe that we need more to mitigate and the necessary welfare measures, such as more and better healthcare, better rehabilitation and care, and a more active policy to reduce sick leave, which is economically beneficial for both people and countries. It is a priority of the necessary welfare policy and not a priority of the welfare policy with lower taxes on, for example: alcohol and caravans. We do not want to follow that policy. In terms of part of these special areas within the budget, I'll take some of them a little bit more summary. We all agree that parental care should be improved and further developed, but it is important that the community economy is good enough, so that we can get skills and more hands and warm hearts in caring and caring for the elderly. This means increasing staffing for health and care professionals, and better medical coverage, and we are spending a lot on our community economy in order to manage better care for the elderly. We also believe that care pay should be returned, and that the State should go in with a share of the salary for each individual who performs care work in their own home, and for their own family members. NOVA is doing research on this now, and we want to get back to it. It is also quite unworthy that the homeless with children should be referred to the hospital. This has been stated several times by Stortinget. We believe that extra efforts need to be made for the homeless and drug addicts living outside the municipalities, and we want to strengthen the budget so that prevention and after-sales protection can be improved, and that an offer of a decent way of life can also apply to these groups. Grants to personal assistants for disabled persons have proved to be a good solution. We want to strengthen this post, but we're going to be sadly alone by adding 10 million. NOK, which would mean approx. 200 new assistants for disabled people. We also want further work to be done on the action plan to enable all young people who want to leave the elderly institution to do so. This has been a lot back and forth again, also from the Stortings pulpit and voting here, but we now want to add 30 million. kr on a new entry on cap. 621 to speed up this work and resolve this by 2005, which has actually been the intention of the Storting. But there's no special follow-up to this. I was involved in the voluntary work. I think it's a little frivolous by the representative Bent Höie to say what he said in reply to me. It is such that resources are lacking to expand the number of volunteer centres. Today, there are 246 centers. These volunteer centres, which started in 1994, are a success, and there should be opportunities for several municipalities to get started. We also know that the economy is so bad that those who have been and are firemen are about to leave the volunteer centres as responsible for these, because they don't have proper pay. They have no pension rights and see that they can get much better jobs in other sectors. But they are trying to endure in the hope that this valuable work will succeed. It looks like the great crowd is unfortunately doing its utmost to make us lose some of these people. $12 million. kr we think it is right to insert. That means $9 million. kr to strengthen the operation of the centres in use and in operation today, and 3 million. kr to be able to start new centres that we know more municipalities and institutions are interested in getting to. Then there's this with the intention agreement in terms of sick leave and a more inclusive working life. We want to add an additional 100 million. SEK to the Swedish National Works Agency for the purchase of treatment facilities. We also want a better economy for our hospitals, so that those in the situation that they have to go out on sick pay can get treatment and rehabilitation quickly, so that they can be back in active work and in an active home situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e688	The center party is sometimes, not to say constant, in the Storting in this period, noting that the Christian People's Party is going away from the center option and laying in the hands, not to say the bed, to the Right and the Advance Party. So it's interesting to use e.g. This is the setting of the Social Committee to analyse a little bit where the Centre Party is located in the political landscape. In a government cooperation, I think we're a few, the government party must be in place. But if you go through this setting from the Social Committee, you'll notice that the Centre Party almost always has one or two exceptions, and the Labour Party or one of them. It is hard to see that they have any other line - there may be one exception or two more - than to be able to cope with these parts. I also record other places in the political image, that they are very rarely alone as a free opposition party, but they stick quite constantly to the socialist side. Is the representative Glutvold well pleased that in this way he completely abandoned the central politics of the Christian People's Party, and thus not at any point, with one or two exceptions, find himself in a position to join the Christian People's Party and the Government? Is this the new and ongoing political profile of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e697	I'm not so much concerned with the bed of the Christian People's Party, but I'm somewhat surprised by the political reversals that have taken place in the Christian People's Party, and if the Christian People's Party has crept into the cross for a Right Policy, it must be Christian People's Party's case. But when it is said that it is remarkable that we are involved with SV and the Workers' Party within the social chapter in this setting, I do not agree with that. Social policy is close to the left in Norwegian policy. There's no doubt about it. We've been doing that all along. We're a value-conservative party, but we're close to the left-hand side of social policy, and that also shows this setting. So the representative Woie Duesund of the Christian People's Party said they were trying to get a majority. We are also striving to find at least a common multiple in politics. That's why we end up there where we're at least at least at least disagreeing with some things. We also stand alone in some things here and get to hear it. As for the changes that have occurred here, I think we're still on our values. For example: the social security system and the relationship with the lone dependants and the disabled, and I could mention several things that we have agreed on, the Government, including the Christian People's Party, has now moved to the right in relation to this in relation to two budgets. Not least in the context of this budget, the Christian People's Party has left a part of the central policy that the Bondevik I government led and that the Central Party is still on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e706	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e709	First of all, I just want to say that the Left is of course behind its government budget, like the proposals that come out in the setting and that are made in the hall behind the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. The left believes that human beings are different and want different solutions. Welfare must always be based on respect for the integrity of the individual, and to a far greater extent on the individual’s wishes and needs. As users, we demand more flexible and individually customised services that are available when we need them. A key challenge for both the health and care sectors in the future will be to have enough warm hands to provide care and care. For the health sector, it may also be appropriate to have the right person in place. The rapid development of language technology will provide exciting opportunities for reducing the costs for healthcare users and, in addition, for much better use of human resources. The government is proposing $2 billion more for the operation of hospitals. The left thinks this increase is necessary, but at the same time, there is now a responsibility in the various health regions to take the necessary steps to exploit the capacity and technology to provide us with a good health supply. Merging the social, social and labour market seat into an establishment is something I have been pointing out for several years that the Left wishes. The size has also gone into it. When you get into a difficult life situation – either you lose your job or your world – it becomes quite bureaucratic when you, like today, may have to enter into four different public bodies to secure money for the most necessary. The left looks forward to the coordination to be achieved by bringing together social offices, social security offices and Aetat. In this context, it is also important to review all today's public social welfare schemes so that one can assess simplification. For the Left, giving everyone over 18 years of age a guaranteed minimum income – a minimum salary – is also about using public competences more effectively and besides making the individual citizen secure a certain income. The left is very pleased that the Government is proposing more to those with the least in the world today. Doing something for these is the most important thing. When one finds 10,000 people who have received social assistance for over three years, the most important job is to try to qualify them to survive their own income. The government's proposal on ear-tagged places in labour market measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and labour market law qualification for immigrants is a proper tool to assist them. The improvement of busses for families with children and the strengthening of the homeless follow-up service are also important measures. In the spring of 2001, I agreed to propose a crisis plan to reduce the number of young people who die of overdose. Prime Minister Bondevik also stated in the Government's Declaration of Accession that increasing efforts for our drug addicts was a priority for this government. In the 2002 budget, an increase in the scope of measures to improve the life situation of our heavy drug addicts is increasing. The government has now presented an action plan on drug problems. Here, a new step is being taken and new policies are being developed to help people with drug problems. The left says that it's important that there's a low threshold to get relief measures and high thresholds to lose supply. We look forward to the results of the action plan, because we are convinced that with the measures that the Government has now taken, many people will have a new start. Of course, we support the Government's proposal to increase the rights of medically assisted rehabilitation, low-threshold provision and social inclusion by 65.5 million. kr. Reorganisation of responsibilities within the drug field of mine Left will be an important step in providing our drug users with an individual rehabilitation plan where responsibilities for treatment are not powdered. When the government increases the rights to mental health by 670 million. kr, I am pleased with the signals sent by the Minister for Health to all health businesses that this should actually be a priority and not be used as a balancing item for other health services. When you try to reverse non-targeted social welfare schemes, which cost millions or billions, and which give as much to those who can handle themselves as to those who have little, it becomes a ramask rich. Schemes that existed at a time when the standard of living for the majority was low are not necessarily the right ones at a time when the majority live in material prosperity, while a minority falls outside. The left priority is to help those who have the least, by targeting more, and I am happy that the Government also prioritises this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e753	If you go back and look at the roots of the Left, you find yourself as a characteristic of the struggle for democracy and democracy. For approx. a week ago we dealt with a Document No in Stortinget. 8-proposals submitted by me on behalf of the SV and the Centre on greater transparency in the treatment of health businesses and transparency for most people, the media and those involved in and affected by health policy through the provision of health enterprises. After this debate is over and the decision has been taken, where the government parties, where the Left is involved, refused to open the meetings of health businesses, the Left goes out and says that they are too open meetings of health businesses. But wouldn't it then be a thought and quite fair play by the Left to set up here in the main hall and face that view and take that fight, if you think there should be openness in the board meetings of health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e760	Now it's so that with two big ones' representatives, the Left will follow in everything that's happening on the Storting. And I can promise the representative Joyful that we also followed up on what happened in the social committee in that matter of openness. Left wants openness in health companies, but we trust the Minister of Health, who wants to look at developments here, and then we want to press the Government, press the health companies, to perhaps go even further in openness than what was the intention of the opposition with this proposal. I just have to admit that in that case I was actually in the hall. I attended and voted, and I stood with the government party. But we will fight for openness, we will fight for perhaps more openness both in health businesses and in public administration, both at state, municipal and state level. That fight we've fought many times, I've faced the Central Party's representatives in various organs many times, but I'm very happy that we've been through, and that this is now a theme where the opposition also supports us. And then we have to go together and fight for that matter. But I am convinced that the Minister of Health will present proposals for openness in health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e771	I've noticed that the Left at May Britt Vihodde has several times engaged in drug-assisted rehabilitation, and I think when I've listened to the Left, it's been commendable that they have an engagement with drug addicts. The left is not represented in the social committee, and it is therefore often difficult to know exactly what the position of the left is related to the rehabilitation of drug users. So I'm just asking out of curiosity and not to put any traps on the Left Party: what are the Left's attitudes related to the use of different drugs — you know buprenorphine, which has the trade name Subutex, and methadone has also been used — in a larger context and to other measures related to drug users? I ask you, considering that if the focus is very much focused on the use of these drugs and is to a small extent focused on strengthening the other part of the response chain, it is at worst possible that it is through continued use of drugs, in this case on prescription, to solve the problems of drug addicts, and then it has actually done more harm than good. I would like some reasoning from the Left on how to think about the whole chain in terms of the treatment of drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e778	The left has been fighting for many years to get individual rehabilitation plans for our heavy drug addicts. And the reorganisation that is now taking place, we're counting on to give clearer responsibilities. When it comes to these people, who are ranked at the bottom of the ladder in Norway, who are the poorest and most worn out, there has been a lot of disclaimer. When it comes to medically assisted rehabilitation or other measures, we think that there must be a body that takes responsibility and as seen the action being taken. We're recording that a lot of people today get medically assisted rehabilitation, but they don't get the follow-up they need. And what I think left is wrong. The drug is a piece of the rehabilitation system, but at the same time all the other joints, ensuring education, housing, work, social networking and follow-up, must lie there. So it can happen that for some people it will get out of a long-term drug abuse, maybe take a year, for some two years, but there are actually some it takes ten years for. In this case, the entire rehabilitation system must be such that one follows the individual, taking into account the measures that each individual needs. Otherwise, I believe that the legations must be more responsible for this. They have to be able to prescribe the medicine that works, either the medicine is called Subutex and contains buprenorphine or it contains methadone, as well as all the other aid measures that have to be implemented to give these people a new start, a new life – and that's what most people want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e787	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e790	Unfortunately, a shaming picture in the government budget is that many of those who have the least, those who are most vulnerable in a unstable labour market, and the sick will be involved in paying for more wealth to the wealthy. It is enough to mention examples such as the proposal for a historical increase in the share of the share of sickness, the taxation of fixed-term unemployment benefits, the removal of unemployed income in addition to social security without benefits in retirement, the reduction of various facilities for disabled persons, etc. This is not acceptable when one would like to create the impression that a rate on them with the weakest economy and the weakest rights. It is no wonder that the unemployed are upset when their economic rights are considerably reduced and when the government is far away from the fact that many today are excluded from the labour market. Although the Workers' Party's influence in this budget is small because of the agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties, we have tried to show the way through proposals for greater justice. The economic situation of hospitals is very worrying and requires measures far beyond what the Government has foreseen. We are constantly getting messages from health companies about restructuring that are hardly done to create a better health service for the population. We need more efficient use of resources, but there needs to be room for action for planned and well-considered conversions. I am therefore surprised that both the Government and the Advance Party have a passive role to play in the 2003 budget and are not doing anything to enable health businesses to maintain the health service in a situation where pay is extremely costly and severe exceptional pension costs. The Labour Party has proposed 530 million. kr more to hospitals and a fund scheme that can cover the additional pension obligations of health care establishments. This should definitely be something for the other parties! I have with pleasure noticed that someone is on the run. Through this budgetary procedure, the Government Parties and the SV ensure that a new pharmaceutical policy is adopted by introducing an index price system. We will come back to the matter as we know it later. This is a very complicated and unwieldy matter that should have been far better solved than the case is, which unfortunately the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party do not get a majority for here in the Chamber. The purpose of the Government is to reduce the expenditure on medicines. That's what's needed. So the question is, do we get it done by introducing the index price system, and is such a conversion the best thing we could do? The working party believes that we should take the time to find out more models, among other things. by looking at the further development of the current profit-sharing model. The working party tried through work on the financial position to get the ministry to look at the effect of alternatives to the proposed, but unfortunately we stuck our head in the wall. Economic analyses of the impact of the index price model should have been carried out both for patients, public health and industry actors, i.e. pharmacies, wholesalers and producers, including importers of parallel products. It seems pointless to establish a system that obliges pharmacies to sell medicines with loss. I don't think the Storting, including the majority, is sure this is the right medicine. And I refer here to the representative, Mr Ballos, to stress the need for evaluation. It should be better to make sure that one starts, actually, is an improvement. I am otherwise glad that the Workers' Party, together with other parties, has focused on a number of individual matters of some great importance. Many Norwegian patients have a high health benefit from treatment trips to warmer climates. Revmaticians are such a group. The Labour Party and I believe that we must make better use of the offer in Igaloo, and I am pleased that the reconciliation between the government parties and the Progress Party was a good step in the right direction, but that was not enough. We also need to take better care of asthma children than what was achieved in the budget. This concerns both the reduction in treatment travel and the lack of participation in asthma schools, which applies to both children and adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e813	Social policy shall ensure the security of individuals, create new opportunities for people who fall outside, and facilitate activity and participation for all. Social policy must ensure that those of us who need it are given a new chance, and that action and services are shaped on the basis of the individual's situation and needs. Against this background, the government has launched a broad change of social policy on the basis of a social profile with emphasis on active action to increase employment, review of welfare systems and comprehensive organisational reforms of welfare services. The welfare systems must not become static, but be further developed and improved to ensure that they function effectively in relation to those to be helped, and to ensure that we have arrangements and measures so that we are able to provide help where the need is greater. It requires willingness to give priority and to target individual solutions to individual needs. The government's vision is that no one should live in poverty. It is important to establish action quickly, and I am pleased that there was broad support for the concrete measures proposed by the Government in the budget for next year. To achieve the objective of combating poverty, clear strategies and targeted work are also required over time, and this will give us the opportunity to discuss more closely when St.meld. No 6 for 2002-2003 on the action plan against poverty is addressed to spring. The main cause of poverty is a weak or a lack of links with the labour market. Work is the most important way out of poverty. Next year, we're going to make a promise for long-term recipients of social assistance. 1000 places are created in labour market measures, earmarked for long-term recipients of social assistance, to ensure that long-term social assistance beneficiaries are helped to get out of life as passive social assistance recipients and into work. The benefits of this are well documented in a study, mentioned in the Evening Post today. Education qualifies for work, and we need to ensure that more people complete education. The measures to prevent early retirement are strengthened, and single-parents who are under education will also now retain the transitional benefit out of the school year. It's about housing. Housing support schemes for disadvantaged families of children are improved by no longer requiring housing to be financed by the Husbank. As a result, about 5,000 more disadvantaged families with low incomes and high housing costs will be entitled to housing support next year. The government has set out the challenges of homeless people and the importance of active measures to prevent and combat homelessness on the agenda. Next year, follow-up services for the homeless in the big cities will be strengthened by 30 million. kr. This is a completely necessary and new bet. The homeless need not only roof over their heads, but also help to live. We must give them that, and I am pleased that there is broad support for this in the committee's position. Through residential social circulars, which were sent out to the municipalities last week, the Government is betting on increased knowledge and closer cooperation between the local authorities and officials in order to reduce the number of housing projects and requests for the expulsion of the disadvantaged in the housing market. The government has also addressed problems related to poor temporary housing services — at home — and sent proposals for indicative quality standards to be consulted, just to provide municipalities with a better way of dealing with the relationship with private accommodation centres, both for municipalities and those who, in short notice, need to take hold of their heads. Children should not live at the hostel – we fully agree on that. Reducing drug problems is about saving lives. The government has presented its action plan on drug problems for the period up to 2005, and it has been presented in the budget. Efforts for the heaviest abusers are reinforced by continued increased efforts to rehabilitate drug-assisted and low-threshold services for the most deprived addicts for whom there is an urgent need. Prevention and prevention measures to prevent young people from being recruited to drug abuse are a priority, and extensive efforts are being made to coordinate and target the efforts of different actors over a three-year period in two sample sizes. We need a comprehensive reform of the drug treatment system for drug users in order to ensure a coherent chain of action in order to avoid fatal breaks between measures. The proposal to transfer specialised health services for drug users from the county to the state health establishments is now being addressed in the Grand Duchy, and the Government has recently sent to the hearing a proposal for the reorganization of social services for drug users. In this context, there is also a proposal for an individual right under the Social Services Act. This is essential in order to ensure coordinated services for users with particularly complex needs. I aim to bring this to Stortinget so that it can be treated during the spring. Together, these proposals will clear up unclear responsibilities in the field of drug care, establish a two-tier model and thus facilitate the organisational preconditions for better and more coordinated provision to drug users in need of help. It is necessary to ensure coherence and coherence in the response chain, from detoxification to treatment and help to housing, work and, in particular, new social networks. The welfare community is under pressure. Many users are dissatisfied with the services, feel that it is difficult to find and also feel like throwing balls between offices and offices. During the budget debate last year, a unanimous increase decided to ask the Government to establish a joint establishment for work, social security and social services. We have done the job and before Christmas we present a case in which we investigate several alternatives to reorganising these services, including the joint establishment. The investigation and the government's proposal are presented in a big message now before Christmas. The relationship between economically active people and beneficiaries is weakened for every year that goes — if we are unable to reverse developments and get more people to work. This is about securing future pensions, but also about being able to provide good welfare services here and now. In order to reduce the number of new, permanent disability pensioners and to increase the number of people in work, the Government has proposed, in the light of the Sandman Committee's recommendation, to introduce a new system of temporary disability pay and new and more flexible rules for the combination of work and social security. The proposals are in Ot.prp. No 102 for 2001-2002, presented in June, which will be dealt with in full over the New Year. I regret the vote on the budget that some parties are already expressing strong views on the proposals that have been put forward, and I am perhaps somewhat surprised that the Labour Party is doing so too – given that the Government's proposal follows up one of the government's commitments to the parties through the Memorandum of Understanding submitted by the Stoltenberg Government. Work on the intention agreement for a more inclusive working life is under way, and we also see that where action is taken, it results in lower sick leave. The employment centre of the social security centre is established in all the counties of the country, and all instruments are made available in line with the scheme adopted by the Stortinget when Ot.prp. No 29 for 2001-2002 was dealt with in spring. The main challenge now is to get more businesses, both public and private, to enter into agreements and take on the work where it will work, at the individual workplace. New figures per year On 5 December, it appears that there are now 1850 IA enterprises, which include approximately 24 pst. by the labour force. That is, one in four jobs in an IA company, and I want to commend everyone who has contributed to the fact that we have actually started so well. One of the main changes in welfare policy is the renewal of the pension scheme in the light of the work of the pension commission. The Pension Commission submits its interim report, which provides a good basis for a broad, important and necessary pension debate even before final proposals are presented next autumn. I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party for the responsibility of the party in a challenging budgetary procedure and to contribute to the reconciliation of both the general government budget and the social budget in particular. By means of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, there has been an agreement on an escalation plan for the basic pension for married and cohabited persons, and I will come back with the necessary legislative proposals, so that these can be adopted before the escalation to 1,6 G from 1 May next year. The guidelines for social security provision and their understanding are a recurring theme. In the light of the decision taken in the course of the 2002 social security procedure, the Government will promote a separate case on the guidelines, so that the Grand Duchy can decide on them and, where appropriate, adopt new guidelines before the next year’s social security settlement. Providing adequate and good services to caregivers is a major challenge. Over the next few years, the development of nursing homes and nursing homes with grants will be completed through the Action Plan for the Elderly. The government is renewing social policy. The size has already been and will be presented during the spring on major issues affecting important aspects of social policy such as poverty, drug problems, the elderly and the disabled, and not least the organisation of welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e854	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e857	As of the first day, the Minister of Social Affairs has stressed the need to combat poverty in Norwegian society, and the Minister of Social Affairs has repeatedly said that there is a need for a new social policy, there is a need to target better, and the Minister of Social Affairs has well introduced the concept of ‘scratch’ in Norwegian social policy. The Minister of Social Affairs has said that we need a rise in the fight against poverty, and this promise has come about through the Government's proposals to the state budget, and the Minister of Social Affairs has largely received what the Minister of Social Affairs has wanted with regard to the State budget. I believe that the basis for all of this is that we believe that both a promise and a promise have now been made to combat poverty, and the ambitions must then be that they should deliver results. And the results here must be that there will be fewer poverty in Norway if it turns out that the medicine of the Council of State works — and at least the Council of State itself must believe that. So my question to the Council of State is, how do you now measure the effect of this promise? How will we now monitor the development of the number of poor people in Norway, and when will we see that what the Council of State calls a boost, actually produces effects? When will we be able to read the statistics and all the other sizes surrounding this topic, that the number of poor, the number of children living in poverty is falling?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e864	I am very pleased with that question, because in the poverty action plan we have also raised the need for social reporting. In other words, we also need to test social policy by measuring what is happening in relation to the actions taken in the action plan. We have pointed out that the most important measure to get out of poverty is to provide help to get into work; it is a qualification to get ahead or to get into work. There are a number of things within the action plan on poverty that can be measured, work, but also housing, and not least looking at the effectiveness of the action plan on poverty. Social reporting shall take place annually. We have committed ourselves to that, and that also means that, in cooperation with all the parties in the Great Britain, we must be willing to assess whether these measures work, whether they produce results, or whether there is a need to make changes. There's been a lot of black paint in front of the budget. I want to stress that in Norway we have never spent more money on what goes on for social purposes, than what we do today. And I'm very happy that the Workers' Party now supports our targeting, that we should both focus and target those who have the greatest problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e874	We have spent a lot of time today talking about all the negative things in the budget – including in the area of the Minister of Social Affairs. It's part of the unsocial measures. That's why I'm going to use this line to talk about the positive in the budget. Because it is quite obvious that the Minister of Social Affairs, in terms of the budget, but also in terms of what has been expressed in the course of the debate, has clear and good care for drug users in this country. In this context, it is very important that a drug report 2 is put in place so that this can be dealt with further. So I want to ask the Social Minister, when can you expect the Stortinget to be presented with that kind of message from the Government? In addition, we know that there has been intensive and good work on the possible aggregation of social security, social security and labour market situations. There it has been reported that a matter will come before Christmas. I'm a little excited if the social minister can say something more about when we can expect to get this case, which very many go and wait for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e881	In the case of Rusreform 2, to call it that, the document has been sent to the hearing. We expect that we will receive feedback fairly soon, just over the New Year, and we intend to send the matter to Stortinget for the first six months. The point of Rusreform 1 and 2 is that we really want these changes to happen at the same time and that it will be from 1 January 2004. On 12 December 2001, in a unanimous decision, the Government entrusted it with the task of establishing a joint body. Today is December 11th, and Christmas starts for me a little Christmas night – I kept on saying. It is at least a short time for Christmas, but we aim to keep the promise to send the matter before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e888	In the agreement to create a more inclusive working life, there is a responsibility on all three of the parties involved to help ensure that as many as possible of those who are not at work today can get a job. A central element of what must be the responsibility of the State in this regard is all the financial arrangements we have relating to sickness, disability, rehabilitation, etc. In several of these areas, the Government of the draft State budget is tightening up. Examples of this include tightening up the day-to-day arrangements, removing the possibility for the under-employed to earn up to 1 G per year without shortening social security and reducing social security benefits for people with temporary unemployment benefits. I can hardly interpret this in any other way than that the government believes that narrower economic conditions will put people who have been or are ill, better able to come back to work again. This is a thinking and an approach that SV finds very strange, and that we have no faith in can work, rather on the contrary. I have two questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: does she really believe that financial sanctions against individuals will lead to more disabled and disabled people coming back to work more easily? And does the Council of State think that this way of doing it is in line with the intention agreement on a more inclusive working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e899	In the case of disability benefits and labour income in this way, we come back to it during the treatment of Ot.prp. No 102 to the spring. After all, we have proposed conversions, simply because many disabled people are out of work, or are shut down in a small job by a system where many people lose their lives working in addition to 1 G. In the case of the Memorandum of Understanding and the contrast that Molvik's representative drew up, the most important thing for those who go on a day-to-day basis, and for those who are unemployed, is to get a job. Helping more people to work is also the safest way to reduce differences. Then we also have to make sure that it actually pays to work. I am also surprised – in relation to the commitment agreement and its follow-up – that SV is putting a cut in the operating budget of the social security budget in a magnitude that will kick the legs under the commitment agreement and work to help more disabled people to work. The cut in the social security bill proposed by SV is 150 million. kr, which would mean a crew reduction of 300 to 400 persons. The basic functions cannot be cut if pensions and other benefits are to arrive at the right person in a timely manner. Down-staffing will have to be taken on the service side and affect work centres, the reactivation of the disabled and the assistance centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e908	The government is flagging this with the fight against poverty, and that's good. But they do the opposite in large parts of their budget. They put more taxes on disease, increase the ceiling on the free card system, there are more expensive medicines, at least in the districts, and there will be a reduction in welfare schemes aimed at disadvantaged people. The Minister for Social Affairs said quite rightly in his intervention that the cause of poverty is weak or unconnected with the labour market. I agree that this is a very important reason. However, there are also other reasons and different fates, such as: sickness and disability. When it comes to getting these more related to work, I think the government is going the opposite way, like, among other things. The representative Molvik was inside. The contribution to travel by work and education for the disabled is not followed up but reduced. The possibility for the disabled to use their residual working capacity is cut by the Government proposing to reduce their income from 1 G to 0,1 G. Now the Social Minister replied partly to this, but an answer from my side is that if they want to earn more, well, then they reduce their disability and go into more work, so that you can share social security and work, and get the system that we have agreed to in the Storting. Then you weaken the economy of those who get time-limited unpaid pay, by the fact that, according to the government's arrangements, these receive less social benefits than the disability pension suggests, and thus even worse economics than the underprivileged. There is also a lack of follow-up and prioritisation of grants to personal assistants for people with disabilities, which, by means of such a scheme, could be more easily involved in working life. Does this harmonize with making disadvantaged people better connected with working life and creating a more inclusive working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e917	Several of the areas in which the Representative for Lutvold was involved, we will come back to and deal with in the first half of 2003, both in the case of disabled people and in the case of non-employment benefits. It is important to target social policy so that we can really help those who need it the most. That means that we also need to have the ability to prioritize and target, so that it is possible to work, and that it is facilitated. Several of the issues facing the representative, especially with regard to the disabled, are also of concern to me, and this is part of the position of the Manneråk Committee. We also want to get back to it in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e926	The Minister of Social Affairs has said on several occasions in this Chamber that the Government is putting the poor first. When we from the Working Party a lot about this, it's because we feel that we don't get an answer on how to do this. For now, therefore, the baby supplement is removed, the child's pension is frozen, there is a fee for the establishment of child contributions, the minimum deductions are reduced and a whole new system of child contributions is introduced, leading to a reduction in the income of most single dependants next year. What kind of poverty measures are there for lone family carers? In the introduction to the so-called poverty action plan, it is particularly unacceptable for children to live in poverty. Yes, it is. But does the Council of State not agree that poverty can only be combated by action?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e933	Yes, poverty can be combated by action. This is why we have presented an action plan on poverty, where the focus has been on work, but also on housing and a number of other aspects of the action plan. I also want to pay tribute to the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party is now dedicated to targeting. There is also consensus that work is the most important way out of poverty. I am very pleased that the party no longer opposes targeting. The broad welfare systems are important. They are also important in preventing poverty, but they are not necessarily the best way to help people out of poverty. We must then have the ability both to prioritise, to target and to be on the action page. As I mentioned in a previous article, we also need to be willing to evaluate and see if the measures we have put forward actually have an effect, both in relation to adults and in relation to children, and in particular the families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e942	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e945	After the government presented its proposal for the 2003 government budget, it became quite clear that this government did not intend to protect those who had the most difficulty in this country. The social profile was almost absent, and if this budget had been adopted in its submitted form, it would lead to a more difficult everyday life for all people in this country suffering from some form of illness than today. The impression you could get was that there were sick people in this country who were going to pay the bill for the different government priorities. Fortunately, it has been possible to bring about changes in the negotiations conducted by the Progress Party with the government parties. It has been possible to zero the proposed increase of 500 kroner in the free card scheme for medicines. The restriction on tax deductions for those with high disease costs has been removed. There has been a reversal of the reduction in the income that may be lost before they are deducted from the pension. It has been possible to get at least the minimum pensioners exempted from the excess of medicines on a blue prescription. However, this pension issue is an issue that has been important for the Progress Party in the budgetary negotiations that have taken place with the government parties. The fact that the Progress Party has finally gained an impact that the curtailment of the basic pension of married or cohabiting pensioners that takes place is now finally to be reduced is a major victory. Since 1989, the Progress Party has made proposals for the abolition of this curtailment, taking into account the idea that the pension is an acquired right, which is to be attributed to the individual pensioner without any curtailment in its entirety. These proposals have been voted down in the Progress Party over all these years, so to speak, all parties have always voted against these proposals. Then it is with some wonder that you can read how positive the Workers' Party has suddenly become, after the Progress Party has made sure to put this in place in the negotiations. The Labour Party has never voted in favour of this proposal before. A slowdown in this, referred to by the Progress Party as a public theft by pensioners, will lead to a pensioner’s pension increase by NOK 5000 already next year, and in 2005 they will be able to receive about EUR 5 000. NOK 11000 more than today. Together with the Socialist Left Party, the Government ensures that there are some major and extensive changes in the field of medicinal products, without having, as the Party sees it, been subject to a thorough enough work in advance. The eagerness of the government to push its spending on pharmacies and drug addicts has led to the introduction of an index price-based system for generic medicines. The Progress Party wants a full review of Norwegian pharmaceutical policy and its management to be carried out. And I just have to state that neither the SV nor the government parties see any need for this. The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen was concerned with the difficult situation of health businesses. The progress party has also been concerned about this. In one matter that we are going to deal with later today, the Progress Party has proposed, among other things. a grant of NOK 2 billion to enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e964	First of all, it is not quite right for SV to cut in the appropriations for the social security budget, as the Minister for Social Security had said. We have a different device and re-disposal in some areas, but overall, we're strengthening the budget by 100 million. kr. Earlier this year, SV produced a report that we have called ‘Different Norway 2002’. This report confirms once again the trend observed in Norway over the last 10–15 years. At the same time as a huge private economic surplus has developed in some people, others have become victims of narrowing down, exclusion and very narrow economic conditions. And the report shows that this development continues. The draft government budget submitted by the Government will reinforce this development in several areas and therefore, as SV sees it, goes in the wrong direction. SV wants to reduce these big differences, by cutting at the top and lifting up those that are at the bottom. For SV, this is an objective in itself, because we know that small economic and social differences provide the very best basis for good and balanced social development in all areas. The only and safest route to economic and social protection is to have a job. Therefore, it is an important foundation of the Swedish welfare policy to provide for a working life that can accommodate as many people as possible, unless everyone can deliver 100 pst. at all times. The intention agreement on a more inclusive working life is an important means of achieving this objective, and SV will oppose any attempt to weaken or undermine this agreement. Nevertheless, some reason for not being able to participate in the labour market and thus provide income for themselves and their families, does not mean that the situation is well-adjusted. SV wants people in such a situation to be guaranteed a secure and predictable economic foundation through the welfare state arrangements. SV is therefore strongly opposed to several of the Government's proposals in the State budget that would weaken such schemes. There is an important work in the direction of Aetat, the social security system and the individual enterprise to help people who have been out of work because of illness or other reasons, back there. In order to succeed, SV believes it is very important to have the necessary flexibility and mechanisms to stimulate the best possible success. In the State budget, the Government proposes tightenings that go in the opposite direction. The government seems to think that if only people get it difficult enough financially, they will get their health and working ability back. Such thinking and such ideology take SV a great distance from. We are therefore in favour of the possibility for disabled people to continue to have an income of up to 1 G, and this is an example of a system that will stimulate people to both maintain contact with the labour market and to try out their working skills. Similarly, SV would argue that people who fall under the temporary unemployment scheme should not have lower social security benefits than others who receive social security. I'm glad that SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party are united in the resistance to these changes. This clarifies important policy lines here in Stortinget. And I find it hard to understand that the Christian People's Party can feel particularly comfortable being the party that ensures a majority of some unsocial constraints in the budget. Some of the SV's differences report shows is that people who live on social security benefits are among those who have the least to go with here in the country, and that many social security recipients are referred to social assistance for shorter or longer periods of time. This cannot be the meaning. The level of economic social assistance is also very low in many places and is poor, especially for families with children. SV therefore suggests that a sample should now be set up to assess the level of social security benefits and social assistance benefits, with a view to raising them, and where we also want to introduce binding minimum rates of social assistance. The indicative rate system has not produced visible results either in terms of the level of the rates or in terms of balancing the large differences between municipalities and municipalities. SV believes that SIFO's cost-of-living calculations can be used in this work. And I had also hoped that the Workers' Party and the Centre could consider supporting such a proposal. Sickness if something has been corrected in the agreement between the Government and the Advancement Party, there will be a significant increase in self-payment in many areas within the health and social field in the next few years. This is probably an example of proposals that will hit hardest on those who have been in need of it from now on. We're going to go against these increases. There is also a general increase in the ownership of medical visits in the budget, which is once again close to twice the normal price increase. This has been the case for many years. This is a theme within the debate on self-interest, which is rare, but which has led to higher costs of illness for those with the least to walk with. Tax on disease is SV against. Instead, we want more taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e999	In particular, the government’s draft budget is aimed at improving health services for the weakest, implementing the hospital reform and strengthening preventive health work. Follow-up to the mental health escalation plan. The overall objectives and instruments are established and the plan is to be implemented in line with the Storting decision. High priority shall be given to children and young people. Patients with psychiatric disorders have long been a neglected group. So I have a strong understanding that many are impatient and want healthy results. However, decades of neglect have not been corrected overnight. Nine-time work is required, and the will to think new must be done. The government prioritises mental health and proposes a real boost of 670 million. kr – the strongest increase in one year since the adoption of the plan. The draft budget presupposes that, in 2003 as a whole, the offer should be at least at the level of 2002 and supplemented by measures resulting from funds from the escalation plan. This is demanding, not least because health enterprises also receive increased wage and pension costs, which must be covered by improving efficiency. In the management I would like to emphasise that this is carried out within the scope of the service offer I have described here. The government proposes increasing the commitment to medically assisted rehabilitation and strengthening the knowledge and competence of community health services to drug users. Available healthcare is important to improve the situation in life and prevent overdoses, and it is therefore proposed to increase efforts at lowthreshold health interventions. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the Government's proposals in these areas. I also note with satisfaction that the Government, with the support of the Progress Party, endorses the proposal to link training institutions more closely to other specialist health services. It is important to optimise the use of resources. It is proposed to allocate 44 million. kr more to the 2003 Cancer Plan. With this, the objective of the cancer plan for government appropriations has been achieved. As part of the national cancer plan, an extension of 22 to 36 jet engines has been adopted. The government is now adding up to another jet engine, i.e. a total of 37. As the government of Stoltenberg announced in the 2002 budget proposal, it will have to be estimated a little longer before all the jet engines are fully operational. I am pleased that, in close cooperation with the organisations concerned, it has been possible to design a self-participation 2. I recall that the Labour Party in its draft budget for the current year considered this to be almost impossible. The majority of the Committee agrees to ask the Government to earmark 50 million. kr for the rehabilitation of dental kits after periodontite treatment. The proposal has both budgetary and practical aspects that need to be properly addressed. In the context of the revised national budget, I will come back with a proposal for the implementation of a tooth loss reimbursement scheme as a result of periodontite, and I will speed up the work of designing a regulation. However, that regulation must be based on a thorough monitoring of the patient group to which this applies. On this basis, I would warn against earmarking money at this point now. This will mean that we have to reduce the reimbursement rates in relation to other schemes within Roof 2, which cannot possibly be the intention of the majority with the proposal. We are now leaving behind the first year of state ownership of the hospitals after Stortinget adopted the hospital reform. Although eleven months are too short to draw conclusions, I would say from my point of view that I am well satisfied with what we have achieved so far. We are now beginning to see concrete results of the state taking responsibility for the hospitals. Waiting times have fallen and become more real, and there are many examples of active work being done in the new healthcare companies to make hospitals more effective, which in turn benefits patients. Never before have more patients been treated in Norwegian hospitals, and the aim is to continue the high level of activity into 2003. Regional health enterprises will be provided with around DKK 55 billion for specialist health services in 2003. This is actually approx. NOK 2 billion more than what was agreed in the state budget for the current year last December. The government sees private enterprises as important and necessary actors to achieve health policy objectives. Regional health establishments shall contribute, within the framework of their responsibility, to the provision of equivalent treatment to private health establishments and to the provision of adequate predictability in terms of framework conditions and long-term planning. When the country took over the hospitals on 1 January 2002, it quickly became apparent that the growth of expenditure in 2001 had been much stronger than foreseen. A major effort was therefore made to identify the economic situation of enterprises. The government promoted on this background St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002 with a proposal for additional appropriations and, at the same time, requirements for the conversion and efficiency of health businesses in the context of the revised national budget this year. The size decided to implement by the end of 2003 measures for conversion and efficiency equivalent to approximately DKK 1.3 billion. This is a very concrete mission, which I and the health companies have been given by Stortingen, and which obliges all parties. In view of the severe economic situation of health enterprises, the Government has proposed that 2004 be used to achieve an operational balance. I note that the majority of the Social Committee subscribes to the proposal. This is necessary in order not to place undertakings in forced situations threatening patient treatment. In the governance dialogue, I would therefore like to highlight the use of available time. In any case, it would be difficult to implement the necessary conversion measures. There will be a debate on individual measures. In this respect, I recall that the Health Business Act has established a system in which the important issues are to be submitted to the Ministry of Health for decision. However, within this framework, it is important that undertakings are given the prerequisites for following up on the decision of the size. Health enterprise pension contributions and pension costs have been a central theme of the debate on the economy of enterprises. It is known that pension contributions in health enterprises for 2002 have become significantly higher than in previous years. The increased premiums have been proposed through increased operational credit frameworks. The Ministry of Health has both in spring St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002 and in St.prp. No 1 for 2003 clarified that it has not been clarified what will have to be included in the accounts for 2002 of pension costs, which will have a direct impact on health enterprises’ operating profit or loss. However, I would like to point out that financing pension contributions through operating credits is also an economic burden on businesses by having to pay interest on the credits. The Ministry of Health is aware that the majority of the calculations currently made on what the pension costs for 2002 will be are available. These estimates indicate that pension costs are in the same rental as the cost level of pensions used after the spring revision of the budget. Thus, the additional burden on undertakings will be, in particular, interest costs linked to the operating credits. I would like to point out that the calculation work has been carried out until recently, and formal information on this has not yet been sent to the Ministry of Health. For the sake of order, I must therefore make reservations relating to this relationship. I note that the Committee expresses concern that enterprises will have to wait until 30 June 2004 before final values are set for buildings and equipment. I can reassure the majority of the committee that the plan has been to present this to the Storting in the 2004 budget proposal, but in the light of the committee's position, I would like to explain in more detail the arrangements for the work in the revised national budget. In this context, I will also present the results of the economic review of the project of new research building at the Radium Hospital. I have also noted the wording on neonatal medicine in the Committee's position on St.prp. No 1, and notes that the Storting will be presented with an overall assessment of the future guidelines for the development of newborn care in the context of the revised national budget. When the Committee examined the draft budget for the current year, the majority, consisting of the Government Parties, SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, stated that it was not satisfied with the scope of so-called generic substitution, and considered it beneficial to increase the scope of the exchange, so that competition between pharmaceutical companies became more effective. The Government has followed up this recommendation and, on the basis of an investigation by the Institute for Economic Affairs, has proposed an index price system that will increase competition in the generic market. The proposal, which has first been at the hearing and subsequently adjusted after the hearings, is estimated to release 93 million. kr to other high priority health measures. I am very pleased that the Socialist Left Party is involved and ensures the majority in this Chamber for actions in the budget that will provide lower pharmaceutical expenditure. This will benefit patients. I am also pleased that parties which form a majority in the Grand Duchy support the conversion of the blue recipe system. However, I am surprised to note that the Labour Party is opposed to the proposal, among other things. on the basis that it is not well established – this at the same time as the Workers' Party, together with the Progress Party and the Centre Party, requires a saving of 135 million. kr, on the one hand, by proposing an extended exchange list for generic medicinal products, a proposal which has not been identified at all, and on the other hand by making a separate estimate of the cost of medicinal products. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee asks the Government to ensure that the asthma medicine Singulair can be prescribed on a blue prescription even if it is prescribed in conjunction with other prescription medicines, without proposing any means to do so. I will therefore have to return to the implementation of this measure at a later stage. Many suggest that physical inactivity is becoming the major health problem of the future. Regular physical activity provides important health benefits; it reduces mortality and morbidity in general. Daily life, leisure and working life make less demands on physical activity than before. About 7000 people in Norway die each year from tobacco-related diseases. Strengthening preventive health work in order to prevent more and thus to repair less is a priority task for the Government. In the new year, I will present my own big message on public health strategies. I also recall the recent legislative proposal on smoke-free serving sites, as one important measure. In line with many, regardless of the view of regulation in this field, there will be a significant campaign against tobacco smoking in the new year and for help to stop. Prioritisation of prevention efforts will in the long term help to slow down or alleviate the ever-increasing and cost-intensive pressure on curative services. We need to prevent more in short and well in order to repair less.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1063	Our Health Minister is, of course, one of the foremost champions of the country's health services. I don't have much to say about his posts now, and I want to support the work he's doing in relation to preventive health work and public health work. It is often too low a priority in this room, so it is essential that we get action in those areas. But in the light of the recordings we get, and as we see in the media, there is reason to believe that severe restructuring is planned in our healthcare companies, which in their nature are approaching closures of offers. So, one can imagine that offers are getting worse and not better, which was the intention of the health reform. The authority of the health reform in an entry-level phase is also greatly boosted, not least because these processes are being overly closed. We believe that we need to put an end to this. We will not continue to give legitimacy to this health reform until everyone has the necessary transparency and can participate in the processes, where one has the opportunity. We heard at the latest today that big cuts are planned, for example. in Sogn and Fjordne. I've heard of other states and regions where things obviously are planned that are not compatible with a good health system. So my question to the Minister of Health is: What governance signals does the Minister of Health intend to give to the health businesses and to the regional health businesses that now seem to be making offers that cannot be in line with the purpose of the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1072	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Kristoffersen, for the support he expressed in relation to the work on public health and prevention. I certainly value that. Yes, there are fierce debates in Hospital-Norway in the day around transformations and efficiency improvements. It is in line with the reform that we are now getting processes that go on the internal level of the work division between hospitals and within hospitals. It has been a prerequisite and an objective of the reform to actually achieve that kind of process. I would argue that the processes are conducted to a great extent by transparency. If you look at some of those who may have attracted the most attention, the discussions in the Health East and the assessments that the Working Party in the Health West has now presented, then transparency is the characteristic feature of those processes. From a long time before these proposals have any status in relation to decision-making bodies, there is an open debate about them, because the investigations are being made public. I think that's good. So the question of governance in relation to this. It is my responsibility to ensure that health businesses follow up national health policies, as it is clear from decisions taken here in the Stortinget. These are the budgetary decisions, which require more efficiency and savings, the legal decisions taken by the Stortinget and the other health policy guidelines adopted by the Stortinget. I do so through the newsletter to the health companies, and I do so also by giving health companies clear information that they must follow the Health Business Act and present questions of importance and principle to the owner. Questions about hospital closure will usually be such questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1083	Norway is one of the few countries in Western Europe that do not have PET scanners, a very modern diagnostic tool for oncology, psychiatry and neurology. Unfortunately, the Advance Party did not succeed in obtaining the necessary 50 million. kr, which, in addition to the university grant and the Norwegian Research Council, could have received the scanning apparatus in place in 2003. However, in the negotiations the Progress Party and the Government Parties agreed on the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that regional health businesses continue to work on the establishment of a PET scanner offer in Norway under the auspices of the Radium Hospital and the Rikshospitalet. This offer will benefit all health regions in a network.’ My question to the Minister for Health in this context is: Will the Minister for Health, as the General Assembly of the enterprise, help the university and the Norwegian Research Council to maintain the offer of sub-financing in 2003 as well, and will the Minister for Health ensure that the enterprises acquire PET scanners during 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1095	As the proposition shows, I am positive about the work on getting the country the type of equipment the representative Alvheim refers to here. Of course, I will deal with the decisions that Stortinget makes in this case today. It is estimated that it will be decided that the Government and the Ministry will ensure that health businesses continue to work on this. I'll do that, with a view to finding a solution. I have no authority over the Norwegian Research Council and the University so I can impose anything on them. But I have clearly understood the intention of the proposal that is on the table, and will follow it up with the enterprises, as the proposal puts it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1102	We look at different areas when it comes to the activities of health businesses, that the Storting is now asking for referrals to health businesses, just to get a review in the areas and to look at what the business should be like. An example of this is the neonatal medicine, where SV has taken the majority to have such a review, and that it becomes a matter to be put before the Storting. Another example is the birthplaces. SV has always argued that a national overall health plan should be adopted by the Stortinget and that it will be the task of health businesses to implement it in practice. I now register that in areas by area there are establishments in health businesses that can be asked about the intention of the Stortinget. As early as 1994, I remember – I met here as an alternate – discussing the Emergency Response Centres – a debate that was committed to listening to, because they were concerned about how local knowledge contributed to providing useful information for those sitting on the Emergency Response Centre, and ensuring, for example, that they did so. an ambulance or fire truck is moving out to the right place. I want to use an example from Finnmark – I stress that this example is because I know Finnmark best, not because I am now specifically going to take care of Finnmark, I believe this has general validity for the whole country – where you have a distance between the two emergency call points of 600 km. So the health companies are talking about the winding-up of one, so that you get one emergency centre in a state as large as Denmark. If one imagines that national developments with fewer and fewer emergency centres are taking place, some of the quality the Stortingen was concerned with in 1994 could not be met. I wonder whether the Minister for Health has views on the structure to be used for emergency services on a national basis, on the need to have a localisation and not to be overly centralised?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1111	I have also recorded, as the representative Ballo, that the level of detail in the hospital sector addressed in Stortinget can sometimes be relatively large. I have a great deal of understanding that the fact that this is where the health policy in the field of specialist health services, is now being shaped, suggests that many questions that were previously raised elsewhere, are now addressed here. I would like to warn you that we are facing a situation where the new healthcare companies are being guided in detail, for example. through Storting’s Questionnaires, all the way down to the department level. This would be contrary to the reform. Therefore, I would like to propose the development of the Health Enterprises Act’s planning and reporting system so that the Storting can at regular intervals provide the basis for an overall debate on the development of health businesses, and where one can see the lines and draw up the lines in relation to the future. There are approaches to this in the Health Business Act. But I want to develop and use it further, just so that we can raise the debate on health policy and draw lines both historically and in the future in that area. And the kind of question that the representative Ballo is raising is an example of that. With the modern technology now available, I believe, for my part, that the question of how many AMK centres you should have in the country should not be the subject of a major regional policy debate. I can see that in parts of the country there may be significant benefits from having fewer AMK centres, but I also have respect for the fact that in other parts of the country there may be special conditions that suggest that one should have more. I'll keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1116	The closure and relocation of hospitals was also a very central issue when we discussed the health reform and the establishment of health businesses. As I understood the Minister of Health in reply to a reply instead, he believed that the kind of question was probably in the category of matters that would and had to be presented to the Minister of Health as a general meeting. Can the Minister of Health imagine presenting these questions to the Stortinget? In fact, this was a rather central theme in the context of health entrepreneurship just over a year ago. So a little bit to this with the specialist health care in general and the psychiatry in particular. We from the Center Party want to strengthen health companies and thus the hospital operations and the operation of specialist health services by 600 million. kr in this budget that we are discussing now, and 2 billion kr in relation to the final aging of the 2002 budget. We also want to strengthen psychiatry, first and second line services. The Psychiatric Plan is per year. today did not show the desired results of the resources. What will the Minister of Health do with this? The time has now almost half gone by for this plan, which is probably at the turn of the year. Is it possible for the Minister of Health to initiate an evaluation of the outcome of the Psychiatric Plan and to provide an assessment of the need to extend it, perhaps both on time and in relation to the resources deployed, in order for the Psychiatry to find its solution, as was the intention when the Psychiatric Plan was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1125	I said in my previous reply that I consider the issue of hospital closure as a matter of importance, and that in most cases, as far as I can judge it, must be presented to the owner. Then there is a constant question of what the Minister of Health is going to present to the Storing of such questions. My primary responsibility is to assess it under the Health Business Act. There are some questions to be asked to the Stortinget, and it must depend on an assessment from my side which questions I would like to put to the Stortinget. The central element of the communication between the Council of State and enlargement in this area is the budgetary document. But I have warned that I want to develop the planning and reporting system that is in the Health Business Act into an overall communication channel between the Stortinget and the State Council – in the forms suggested by the merger and government, of course – to give Stortinget this platform for a more comprehensive discussion on the development of health businesses. So the question of psychiatry. The draft budget adopted here today is the strongest escalation in psychiatry ever adopted by the Stortinget. My responsibility is to make sure that the money is used targeted on the basis of where the needs are greatest, and to contribute to the money coming to the top of a continuation of existing activity in healthcare companies. I want to use my owner’s position in relation to health companies to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1134	I think it is important to ask the Minister of Health a question about a relationship that the Minister of Health also had in his own post, this with a reimbursement scheme for dental rehabilitation due to periodontitis. It was claimed from all over the world, including the United States and Japan. The Dental Association, that the amount of the appropriations allocated to the State budget is not necessary to cover the costs resulting from the processing operations carried out. In other words, funds are available for more coverage of the scheme within the scope of the allocation. And the more should in that case be rehabilitation as a result of tooth loss at periodontite. My question to the Minister for Health is: What assessment does the Minister for Health have of that claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1148	I can't believe the Dental Association can claim this. Of course, we have presented a draft budget based on the best estimates and assessments and facts available on reimbursement for dental treatment. It is clear that, based on statistics for dental treatment for previous years, we distribute the funds that the Stortinge grant for reimbursement, and then they are spent, unless the dental treatment of dentists changes dramatically in relation to the statistical material we have. I don't have any knowledge that suggests that dental treatment should change dramatically in relation to the statistical basis we have, and then that money will be spent, so if we distribute it in relation to the extent of the type of reimbursable treatment we're talking about. So I'm afraid to say that here, the Dental Association has made claims in the field that at least I can't go well for. On the contrary, I believe that such earmarking of this money will make the Roof 2 scheme worse, and it will not accelerate a reimbursement scheme for rehabilitation beyond what I have already said, that I will speed up the work as fast as it is possible at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1155	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1158	Over many years, there has been a broad consensus on building Velferds-Norway. Norway and the other Nordic countries have emerged as models of welfare building in other countries. The content of our welfare building has been: a fair distribution of value creation to give all citizens an economic and social basic security to ensure equal opportunities for care and treatment, irrespective of the social and economic position; The fair distribution is sought realized by raising the floor for those who have had the least. Basic security has been sought through universal services and economic benefits — through sickness pay schemes, unemployment benefits and good pension schemes. The rights and equal opportunities of care and treatment are sought through an enhanced public welfare system. This Velferds-Norway is about to change him. The upsurge of these values also had in a social liberal right, has aroused space in an economic-liberalist right, driven even further to the right of the Progress Party. The government outlines a poverty package, but creates more deserving and potential social clients by: it is cut in the child supplement for lone dependants is proposed to exclude the possibility of earning 1 g extra, and the costs of disease could only be deducted to a limited extent from the equation. At the same time, tax exemptions are introduced for employers who pay private health insurance for their employees, and more are introduced for social clients. At the same time, the Progress Party makes sure that the inheritance fee is drastically reduced and thus favours the richest The basic security is not realised on the basis of a human view based on suspicion, as proposed by the financial penalties for those who are not in full employment: by reducing disability benefit from 66 pst. to 60 pst. on the basis of the calculation, by reducing the right to unemployment benefits by threats to reduce health benefits if one of the 20 pst objectives of the Memorandum of Understanding. the reduction is not achieved by under-regulating the basic amount in relation to wage developments and the High Cigarage of the Progress Party from the past is taken into account when they do not vote in favour of the proposal that last year's follow-up should be given before the next pension discussions begin. The right to equal opportunities for care and care is not ensured through the privatisation of welfare services, as provided for in the budget agreement, where: employers are taxed when they pay private health insurance for their employee funding models in the healthcare sector, they are encouraged to encourage private operators in different ways to better facilitate private hospital-enhanced competition and tendering, inter alia. by introducing the right to challenge private actors and thus facilitating the privatisation of key municipal care services; We have experience of this in a right-wing Oslo. Even more experience has been gained from thatcher's liberal England in its time. Experience is clear: there will be no care or safety. I find it hard to believe that there is a real majority for such a shift in Norwegian welfare policy. It's hoping that the Christian People's Party will come out of the closet before the structural changes become so big that we can't roll back the welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1224	We have reason to be concerned about the development of mental disorders. And we have reason to be concerned about all the children and young people who are and become mentally ill. Too many children and young people end up in psychiatry, and they stay there, maybe out of life. The causes and diagnosis are complex and complex. It must undoubtedly be one of the most important challenges facing the Norwegian health system. According to the WHO, mental disorders are high on the global list of levels and prevalence. It's about morbidity like mortality, about suffering for patients who burden relatives, about costs for society. Psychiatric health services need to adapt to the society in which we live. That society is constantly changing: increasing unemployment, shifting unemployment, increasing drug use and increasing diversity of cultures, to name a few. It is therefore necessary that we keep the taboo high in the prevention and treatment of mental disorders, because we do not solve it by being concerned – it simply requires action. The majority has acted through the psychiatry plan and the budget follow-up of this, and the Workers' Party would like to praise the Minister of Health for his commitment and clear voice in the psychiatry. The Labour Party likes that the Minister of Health keeps the health companies a little bit in check, so we can achieve the goals that we all want to achieve in the psychiatry. The Labour Party is ready to cooperate with the Government in that work, but like the rest of the committee, we are concerned about the follow-up to the plan. We are not satisfied that the waiting time is still too long for both children, young people and adults. We need to constantly consider deploying more resources to succeed. We are also ready to cooperate with patients, relatives and professionals to continue the building-up of prejudices in mental disorders. The user must focus, and the user intervention must be real. If we are to meet all the challenges, there will be a great need for research and competence. Mental Health Norway should be praised, not because they are in Telemark, but because they have done a great deal of work to focus on and generalise mental disorders and be a breaker to fight down prejudices. Fortunately, a joint committee wants a centre of expertise to be built in the Ski, even though the government parties are a little more lukewarm than the majority. We're trying as hard as we can to see the whole community in context. For people to have a good life, we have to be able to see the whole human being. Work and rehabilitation are therefore among the main priorities of the Workers' Party. The working party is occupied by everyone to use their working capacity. Including working life is a good tool for which the Minister of Social Affairs has been involved. It's actually quite on the verge of being an IA company, a fashion that gives good results. Professional rehabilitation must be further developed. Many of our training institutions have very good results to point to. But we all have a responsibility that they too should plan their everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1245	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1248	The co-operation administration has promoted a social budget with many major reforms. These measures are targeted at helping the very poorest in general, but children’s families in particular. For the first time in modern times, the government is launching a poverty response package, and the budget contains several measures aimed at maximising passive action to work. For example, labour market measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and labour market qualification for immigrants are strengthened. The follow-up service for the homeless, the housing support scheme for families with children and the right to transitional benefits in the course of training for lone dependants is strengthened. In addition, both the ceiling and the rates of the minimum deduction increase. Drug policy is an important part of welfare policy, and the individual drug addict often needs complex help. The dramatic increase in access to and use of drugs requires innovation in drug care. Important areas of action such as the action plan against poverty, the study of the joint establishment of work, social security and social services, the psychiatry escalation plan, child protection, etc. is to be seen in the context of drug policy. The government therefore considers it important that these areas be strengthened and coordinated. The government will end up being a waste of drugs in a system without rights and has therefore promoted the most comprehensive action plan for drug use of the time. This means that for the first time in history, Norway receives a plan that contributes to the inclusion of drug users under the Patient Rights Act and is referred directly to the investigator, detoxification and treatment specialist through his or her permanent doctor, in line with others. The government is looking for better prevention work among children and young people and better treatment for the most severe drug users. In this context, the Government has put in place a nationwide drug phone to help save lives by providing quick and expert guidance to children and young people and their relatives. The government is focusing on better housing, better health provision and enhanced drug-assisted rehabilitation for drug addicts. In order to follow the whole treatment chain, the Government has strengthened the psychiatry with the greatest increase since the psychiatry plan was adopted. We know that very many children and young people have mental problems, or that they often have such problems with the use of drugs. The government will therefore give priority to children and young people throughout the treatment chain — including in psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1271	50 billion DKK is the price tag of the total development needs notified by regional health businesses to the Ministry. It is unrealistic to carry out such a large-scale development, and probably not necessary either. In the future, health enterprises will prepare and implement restructurings/functional distributions with a view to better and more efficient operation. Development projects must also be subject to a critical review, and the value of development must be seen in relation to how to set up an overall health service within the region. At the same time, considerable resources will be required in the future to make the necessary progress. Alternative expansion models should then be tested. In the budget, government parties have been given a majority to ask the Government to assess the issue of cooperation between the public and private sector in the field of investment in new buildings, and to ask the Ministry to explain how private interests can appropriately participate in the development and operation of hospitals. For even in the case of parts of the operation and property management, it may be appropriate to make use of private resources. This is not an innovation. Other countries can refer to both long and good experience in public and private cooperation in several sectors. In Norway, we have generally only woken up in the transport sector. It is time to open this up in the sector that perhaps means the most to the population to get a good offer, so that we can get both progress in and a corrective to purely public hospital development. There are several hospitals that have begun to think in these paths. For example, in the context of planning a new hospital, in addition to looking at their own financial options, the hospital in Buskerud has gone through the savings possibilities available, and there has been contact between the hospital and private investors in relation to hospital-related activities, such as hospital hotels, infrastructure, etc. In general, the model approach to public-private cooperation itself has come a long way. Through studies abroad, such as England and Sweden, the hospital has studied comparable projects. These prove to be much cheaper than in the present case, despite the fact that tenders, contracts and construction are being made within the same EEA territory. It is a paradox that hospitals can be built for between NOK 20 000 and NOK 30 000 per year. square meters in Sweden, when you build at 60 000 kr per. square metres in Norway. This shows that there is a significant willingness to use alternative and creative solutions when the hospitals themselves are given the opportunity to do so. With a lead that is now in the budget, combined with a detailed investigation from the department, this hospital, as well as the others, will be able to proceed with this planning. Another aspect of hospitalization is that it is important not to be able to reinvent the wheel every time you have to build it. There will be little mass production effect if every hospital becomes an architect's and contractor's debut. Therefore, we must also take advantage of the opportunities offered by the EEA market. In the budget, the majority stressed that development, in cooperation with private individuals, can only take place within the normal budgetary framework of health enterprises and the normal priorities. Cooperation with private investors can be anything from a joint venture to only basic investments. The point is to test alternative development models and have their own projects tested/quality assured against alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1290	Of many important sections of a large budget, I would like to highlight one in my contribution, and that applies to the provision of food in local hospitals. In these days, different health professionals make assessments of how they operate in accordance with the budget. These budgets are reasonably tough to align with. It seems that the maternity wards may be more legal than other wards. Recently we got it demonstrated in my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, where there are some work reports that relate to dramatic closures both by maternity wards and by whole hospitals. I would like to point out that last year a joint committee had a clearly positive comment in the revised national budget when it came to the hospital economy, that one should ensure decentralised food supply. This year there is also a new note in the budget position, page 81, all of which is outside the Progress Party: ‘The majority of the Committee... will point out that a decentralised supply of food is needed between hospitals with scattered housing and long distances.’ I am therefore pleased that there is a proposal from the Government Party and the Progress Party, which the Minister of Health also commented on, to look at neonatal medicine. In the meantime, it is important that a health care provider does not intervene to destroy this possibility of securing local food services. I am sure that the Minister for Health, as head of health, will see to it that this does not happen. The Christian People's Party opposed hospital reform, among others. Because of the fear we're now seeing that people beyond the country also have. We don't have a rematch, neither does the government. So now it's important that we control this in the best possible way. I also want to comment on another thing. It has been said from more than one time that the Government will abolish the gravitational support. One would think that people had read problems. The case is that the Government increases the gravitational support for those who need it the most. For 20 years this support has remained unchanged. It has been all these years that one had to seek support if one needed funds in excess of NOK 4000. There is nothing new in that now a search must support to get the NOK 15 000. But there's an extra help -- which increases for the first time in these years -- to those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1310	I want to take the opportunity to correct an error that has occurred in the setting under chapter 2711 item 78. For the correct chapter reference for the increase in Chapter 2711, item 78, the total increase is 17 million. SEK shall be distributed by 13.6 million. kr in Chapter 2711, items 78 and 3,4 mill. kr for Chapter 732, item 70. Thus, the adjustment has to be changed, with a reduction of 3.4 million. kr in Chapter 2711, item 78, and a corresponding increase of 3,4 million. kr for Chapter 732, item 70. I would also like to address the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber, No. 36 on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party and No. 37–39 on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. I would also like to take the opportunity to comment on the particular article for Asmund Kristoffersen. He gave a description of the conversion that is now taking place in healthcare companies, in which I am not familiar. The Committee has visited regional health establishments on several occasions and gained a good understanding of how they work. My clear impression from that work is that regional health businesses are putting a great deal of emphasis on anchoring the changes and the process of conversion they are currently involved in with the employees of the organisation and with other stakeholders in the community. At the same time, I also have a clear impression that they are able to keep an open process about the proposals, that the proposals are being debated both in the media and in the local environments. It should just be missing, it's part of the democratic process. In this way, we have a clear impression that regional health businesses have started an important job of seeing health services in the regions in the context, getting the best possible use of public funds and offering the best possible offer to the inhabitants of their region. There will be a great danger for this reform if the Storting should take up any kind of debate in the local environment in this room and in a way start the debate here, thus undermining the authority and the trust that regional health businesses need in the important work that we, together with the Council of State, have instructed them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1321	Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The corrections in the settings presented are recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1327	The pharmaceutical field has received a wide range of references in the position of the Social Committee. I am very surprised and disappointed in this matter, especially over SV, which provides a majority for the introduction of an index-based reimbursement system for medicinal products. This system is a major advantage for the pharmaceutical industry, since the system removes much of the negotiated pressure from the pharmaceutical manufacturers after the deregulation. With this system, public control of public expenditure will have major problems in reducing prices, because with an index price, both producers, wholesalers and pharmacies are most interested in the highest possible price, due to the percentage margin. With this system you can risk the whole industry ‘rotating together’ to keep it up. I believe that the index price model is a theoretical socio-economic model that in practice will remove much of the dynamics of the pharmaceutical market. The vast majority of hearing opinions on an index system warn against this, precisely because the practical follow-up to the proposal in the real world becomes very difficult. With what is adopted today, it is only the producers who rub their hands, and I think it is very sad that no more than the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party see this and are concerned about what is best for the patients. So in the end, the establishment of health businesses, we have to succeed. It's very worrying that they're struggling with the economy as they do. This was also due to the fact that the Arbeiderpartiet and SV were united to grant half a billion more to the companies. For us who follow in what Health Enterprise East is doing, we are now afraid of the offers in a number of areas, and that kind of uncertainty puts the entire authority of the reform at risk. It should worry the government parties and the government to a much greater extent than we'll see here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1336	With so many things and areas, some are almost punctuated when you have so little time allocated. I just have to point out what I said in the change of line when it comes to this with temporary unpaid pay and a restriction on the right to allowances for non-pensioners. A couple of other important things for those that apply, I'll still mention. In the case of student rehabilitation, we ask, together with several parties, that the age limit of 26 be raised for students who get sick and need rehabilitation after that age. We also ask that the ceiling on interpreting hours be lifted in the work of deaf, deaf blind and deaf blind, and hope that the Government does. So a little bit about the tomb stand. We in the Center Party are very disappointed with the device that the Government put up there. The representative John I. Alvheim said he was “feeling sick” about getting rid of dead people. I'm not going to use such strong words, but I'm very sorry that we couldn't do anything about this. There I must say that the responsibility was first and foremost on the Advance Party in the agreement they did with the Government – and as high as they went on the track in relation to this matter! We want general support, with opportunities for those who need it the most, to get up to $12,500, as the scheme is today. So the increase from the Government up to NOK 15 000 is not big – NOK 12 500 you can get today. The arrangement that the Government is putting up with now, stigmatizing people in a very difficult situation, I think. Then I want to take a little visit to the Minister of Health, who was talking about preventive health work, that it is too low a priority. We've suggested from the Center Party that we try to improve our eating habits, not least for children and young people, by introducing vegetables and fruit into school. There are no parties that have responded to this. I therefore think that part of the prevention work may not be wide enough when we see what kind of initiative is taken in relation to other prevention activities, cf. smoking law and this with physical birth, which at least is now flagged quite strongly. We want to remove the increase in probabilities by consulting the doctor and psychologist, and we want the credit card scheme to be in place today, and not raise the ceiling by 500 kroner as proposed by the Government. So a little bit to the training institutions. They're in a very problematic situation. No one has disagreed that the proportion of individual members of the institution, as it stands, should be lower. It has gone down from 190 kroner to 150 kroner and reached 120 kroner, but the government, in the case of government and large-scale figures, does not take responsibility for this by increasing the rate of the curfew or the price to be paid by the State accordingly. The representative Bent Höie said in a reply to me that they had additional appropriations. Yes, they have, under strong pressure, both in the revised national budget and now in the autumn through the agreement with the Progress Party. But it's too little. We wanted to add 100 million. This is the case, and probably it is also done at least, in addition to the fact that we wanted a different financing mechanism, as stated. the minority proposed in the investigation carried out here. We have to put these institutions in place. We also want new institutions, and follow it up. That's absolutely right. It has also been stated positively by the Right and other government parties before, but now it is not followed up with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1353	First, I would like to recall the decision we made to negotiate with the government parties on Røros Rehabilitation Centre, which is now over, and where the Government will engage in dialogue with the institution and the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease to ensure the operation of the Centre in 2003. So a little follow-up to the posts of the representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer regarding the majority comments that the Progress Party has together with the government parties in the position, among other things. opening up private investors in the construction and renovation of hospital buildings and health institutions. What is on the table today is that there is a need for 60 billion kroner. If this is going to go above the public budgets, there are some of us who don't experience that happening. There is a great need to renovate some hospitals and new buildings. It is very positive that there is now a majority in the Storting to make use of the possibility available to private investors. This will enable us to realize more buildings and get them going faster. So back to the majority proposal to designate part of the budget line for dental treatment for the rehabilitation of dentistry in the context of periodontitis. The proposal put forward here on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party is worded as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the revised national budget for 2003 with a provision for the implementation of the dental rehabilitation scheme as a result of periodontite, within the overall appropriations for dental treatment reimbursement.’ This is where the hook is. If that's right what the health minister said in his statement, that if you earmark this money, it will go against other patients like this money was intended, including those under roof 2. But if you want to follow the proposal that's here, you're going to do exactly the same thing. If the appropriations are not increased in the revised national budget, the system that is promised to be added here will also affect patients who are expected to receive treatment, as the Minister of Health told us from the pulpit here. Of course, you can discuss what you can believe the most. I shouldn't have said anything about that. But the consequences, if we are to be able to rely on this proposal, must be that there should also be money in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1367	There are some experiences and moments here in life where being with their neighbors is more important than anything else. Such an experience is, among other things, When a new little citizen comes to the world. In most cases a birth is uncomplicated and the experience is a great pleasure for the whole family, who want to participate as much as possible. Unfortunately, some experience complications despite completed pregnancy, while others again experience that the little one is curious about life and is too busy to get to the world. In such cases, high levels of medical competence and rapid response are required to provide the best care for children and mother. For the birthing and the child, such experiences in themselves are burdensome. Therefore, closeness and support from the family are a great advantage. The right and government parties are very pleased that a unanimous social committee states that important established professional competence in intensive neonatal medicine in some central hospitals should continue. In particular, the Committee refers to the two hospitals in Ålesund and Bodø. Hospitals can show very good results in neonatal medicine and premature births, and it would be unfortunate to reduce such competence where distances are large to the nearest regional hospital. At least as important is the fact that the birthers can feel confident that hospitals are asked to maintain a high professional level of neonatal medicine and that the task of health surveillance will be to continuously assess the supply and safety. We live in a land with scattered settlements and often large distances to the nearest hospital. As a follow-up to previous decisions in Stortinget on a better emergency medical preparedness, the Government has announced that before the New Year, a consultation note with proposals to amend Chapter 5 of the People's Rights Act will be promoted. The amendment seeks to legitimise the social security disbursement for the control of pregnancy by midwives in both private and public activities. A well-developed rural midwifery service, good pregnancy checks and qualified follow-up to hospitals when there is a need is not only prevention of complications, it is also reassuring for those who are waiting under stress for a great deal of wonder to happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1382	There are several things that could be tempting to comment on the tame of the debate. I'm going to make it short and just say that I have to reserve myself against the production that the representative of Brørby made to speak for, that health businesses are now going to be doing activities that undermine the authority of the reform. I'll take a clear distance from that. Health enterprises are engaged in activities which are a follow-up to efficiency requirements imposed by budgetary decisions in the Storting. At least I feel a responsibility that they will have the opportunity to do so. At the same time, they shall do so within the framework of the Health Policies and Decisions taken by the Grand Duchy. It is also a responsibility. Let me then tell the representative Alvheim that it is correctly perceived that a designation of 50 million. kr of Chapter 2711, item 72 for the rehabilitation of dental sets in isolation would reduce the increase in the existing reimbursement schemes. The consequence of this would be an increase in the proportion of the excess, and there would then have to be an unintended effect of such a majority decision. The intended effect of that decision is to put pressure on the Council of State to submit, as soon as possible, a proposal providing for a reimbursement system for the rehabilitation of periodontitis. When I then said that, in the revised national budget, I would like to make a proposal for it, and I would like to speed up what is at all reasonable, it should be sufficient for the majority of the European Parliament to say that we will then support the proposal for a ceiling of 2 that exists, and then we will deal with the proposal that is being revised and then take a position on the question: do we want to adopt it within the framework that has been adopted, or do we want to add more money to this system than that adopted at the initial budgetary procedure? That freedom will be enjoyed by the majority of the Storting at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1389	State Council The High Council will now take up work on periodontite and rehabilitation, and this work must be done by the Council of State, which he was also involved in. Even with the sketched approach that the majority of the committee has put forward, if you come back to the latter, you can still add more of the same money, as the Council of State also says, because if you read the proposal from the Council of State, you have to be within the framework, it actually says in the proposal that is on the table today for voting. So to the supply of food and neonatal medicine and the importance of having safety. Security must first and foremost be linked to the results of the individual departments and the professional offer, the good offer there. There are some of the central hospitals that have, and what you have, among other things. highlighting here is the importance of continuing their offer. To the representative, Røbeck Nørve, I would just like to say that a similar proposal was made in connection with the municipal economic proposition before the summer. Then Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Right and the government parties voted against the proposal of precisely Bodø and Ålesund, so the political memory must then be quite short. But it's good that we now have a majority for this and a unanimous committee that just points out the importance of maintaining these departments. So a little visit to the Workers' Party and the representative Britt Hildeng on what's going on in pensions. It is a little strange that the representative Hildeng comes up with criticism of the Progress Party on social security and whether to catch up on a follow-up to social security before entering into a new one, in particular because the Progress Party has repeatedly proposed changing the guidelines on social security. Strangely enough, the Workers' Party has not supported it. In addition, the Progress Party posted a completely different increase in social security that was in line with what the organisations asked for in May. The Labour Party voted against it. I think it's both a little remarkable and a little rude to stand on this platform and try to make it quite different from what you've done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1400	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1416	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1432	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1448	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition of the individual statements, and that those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1455	In the proposed changes under some chapters of the State budget that we are now considering, corrections have been proposed in the 2002 budget. Most of these have been agreed on in the committee, but I would nevertheless like to make some suggestions. In the proposition, it is proposed, inter alia: strengthening tobacco prevention, including media campaigns, by 10 million. kr. This is a follow-up to the national cancer plan and is supported by a unanimous committee. Tobacco damage is one of the biggest health problems we have, and it is good that an active effort is now being made to prevent even more people from smoking. At the same time, it is important that efforts are made to get even more people to stop. However, the biggest issue in this proposition is the situation in hospitals. This is indicated, inter alia, by: that outpatient activities are higher than expected. Regional health enterprises continue to face difficult and challenging work in several areas, both of an economic and organisational nature. In order to facilitate the economic situation, therefore, a proposal to increase the operational credit to health care businesses from 2 billion kroner to 3.6 billion kroner. Of this, approx. One hundredth million. kr is used vis-à-vis private institutions. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, subscribe to this and also consider that it is necessary to allow regional health establishments to use the operational credit originally granted to the private institutions if the amount does not prove to be sufficient. This is important because private institutions also experience a difficult economic situation. In this context, there is also unanimity on the importance of taking responsibility for the private institutions with which they have been contracted by regional health undertakings, in order to give them predictable and equivalent framework conditions. The Progress Party believes that instead of extending the operating loan, Stortinget should add NOK 2 billion to the hospitals now. This may seem like a captivating thought. Because, as argues, ‘the money has already been used.’ Yes, they are, so it is obvious that the proposal would not lead to a single additional patient being treated if this had been adopted. But more seriously, it is that with all probability the necessary conversion and efficiency measures would have been slowed down, not to say stopped completely. In my opinion, the proposal would have acted almost like a bomb during the whole of the health reform. For what authority and motivation would regional health companies still have the important work in which they are now involved, if one in the first year of government ownership felt that the Storting came at the end of the year with an extra 2 billion kroner? The Government Parties and the Advance Party do not appear to be a successful situation if the fluctuations in pension expenditure make it unpredictable for health businesses to change the volume of treatment. There's also something that the minority has described. I therefore find reason to point out that the introduction of the Accounting Act should have a smoothing effect between years. This is also the reason why the Government Parties and the Advance Party propose that the Government assess, forward to the revised national budget, whether the introduction of the provisions of the Accounting Act for hospitals gives it sufficient effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1481	So far, health businesses have followed up on the intention of the hospital reform. Several patients have been treated, waiting times have been reduced, as have waiting lists. Based on the third tertiary, hospitals may appear to have an increase in the number of patients treated. 3 pst., while the approved budget provided for a production increase of 1 to 1.5 pst. However, the increase in output in addition to an unforeseen additional premium for KLP and uncovered wage increases have brought businesses into a very difficult economic operating situation. Although the operational credit line has increased significantly, these entities do not provide a lasting solution to the economic situation. As far as I am aware, there are now plans in all regions and regional enterprises to reduce treatment provision significantly in 2003 in order to balance the budgets in 2004. There are also plans to lay down a hospital. This is a situation that the Progress Party cannot accept, and that other parties on the Storting should not accept either. Critical remarks have also been made in the media on the offer of the various political parties, in particular from the Workers' Party. I had therefore expected that when, in the context of this proposition, the Progress Party proposed additional appropriations for the current year's budget for enterprises, the Workers' Party would support this proposal. Surprisingly, though, they don't. It's only the Central Party that's set up, and supports an additional allocation of NOK 2 billion. The Workers' Party launches in the suspension a notion of state funds to which enterprises can draw under exceptional circumstances, such as increased pension contributions. This will be assessed at a later stage by the Progress Party, but it is now appropriate to provide operational funds to enterprises so as to reduce the number of treatment provision in 2003. If the operating deficit for 2002 recovers, enterprises will be able from 2003 to maintain their production and continue to cut their waiting time and cut their waiting lists. Therefore, the parties that are now failing to rectify the business economy must also assume the responsibility for the cuts in treatment services deemed necessary by enterprises in 2003 and which can undermine the whole of the hospital reform. It's not just a matter of criticizing the Government. Now has an opportunity to rectify the hospital economy, but they don't. I refer to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1496	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1499	The centre party is very concerned about the poor economy of health businesses, which can create totally unacceptable developments in our health services in general and in specialist health services in particular. But this will also have ring-fenced effects into the first line service. What is clear is that there is a need to create interaction and cooperation within the healthcare system. But the coordination that is now taking place, we are afraid of liquidation and centralization, based on one-sided economic thinking, not least because the economy is as bad as it is now. Unacceptable structural change like this will reduce the supply of emergency medicine to the population, not least in the districts, and we are already seeing it, for example. in the ambulance service. In our opinion, emergency medical preparedness, and the ambulance service as part of it, should be expanded and strengthened. It would also be in line with Storting’s intentions in dealing with the so-called emergency message. We have also mentioned birth offers quite a lot in the 2003 budget, especially in the case of feeding rooms and the offer of premature births. But the general thing that should go back to this with birth care is that birth care should be decentralised. In the hospital where you now have maternity wards, some blue lights flash that indicate that this offer can be gone. We believe that maternity care should and must be decentralised. When we dealt with the economy of hospitals in the spring in connection with the revised national budget, health businesses showed that there was a lack of NOK 2.6 billion. The government’s answer to this was that you would receive NOK 1.3 billion. The rest should be taken into account in terms of efficiency. Such an improvement in efficiency is, in my opinion, in changing the structure of our health care system, as I now described it. We found the response from the Government unsatisfactory and unacceptable and proposed an additional allocation that would mean that the increase in patient treatment could be between 2.5 pst. and 3 pst. We already knew that the increase in patient treatment was up to 2 pst. In the first half of 2002, the Government proposed that the treatment increase should be only 0.5 pst. It would have meant shutting down hospital posts and a strong reduction in the offer to patients if one had come out with 0.5 pst in the course of the year. The answer from the majority of the population in our country was that money was put in, so that the increase in patient treatment could be between 1 pst. and 1.5 pst. No one would follow the proposal of the Center Party for funding so that we could get the increase in patient treatment that we see today was what we predicted and that we budgeted for. I think it's a little sad that this is the situation for health businesses. We've been told sometimes, when we've been worried about health companies, that we're asking to fight this case because we were so strongly opposed to part of what's in the structure, organisation and what's happening now. But at least we have tried to help ensure that this kind of hospitalization would benefit the individual patient. Now we see that we don't get a majority for that. The Progress Party and we now agree to propose NOK 2 billion in the final aging of the 2002 budget. We want this appropriation to be made transferable, but not as an estimate, because we want the Storting to have control of how much money is spent and how much money is needed. The blackmail that we saw in the past between the state and the county councils, we still get in a way now between the state, by government and enlargement on the one hand, and the health company boards on the other. The conflict that this creates out there has already reached us. I hope that the Minister of Health will take this into account, for several of the things I mentioned here, maternity care, emergency care and ambulance services, must be at an acceptable level if this system is to be equal to everyone and offer a kind of health care. I also think that we have a responsibility in relation to this in reducing sick leave, in order to get faster treatment at the hospital level and to bring down the waiting lists. As a result, perhaps the strongest contribution from the government is to reduce sick leave in the period that we now have this intention agreement. I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1516	Ola D. Glötvold has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1519	The head of the Social Committee, John Alvheim, described the situation at the hospitals and concluded that: ‘This is a situation which the Party of Progress cannot accept.’ But the Progress Party can do that. After all, the Progress Party has accepted the situation. The Progress Party has helped to form the basis for a majority of the State budget to be implemented next year, which determines what are the prerequisites for hospital operations. That is exactly what the Progress Party has done – accepted the situation at the hospitals. That discussion was abandoned in the context of the 2003 state budget discussion. The Progress Party then takes a purely procuratory approach by saying that the funds can be transferred to 2003, as if we are going to deal with the State budget repeatedly in this Chamber. But we're not actually going to. The SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, have proposed a reduction in the pension scheme that could have provided a better economy. Then we have to admit that there is no majority for that in the Chamber. The Progress Party does not support it. The fact that we would then go into a kind of arrangement as if we were able to deal with the state budget on a case-by-case basis would become a mere trick. I get some kind of association that you go into a church that is stiff-necked to the marriage, enters into the marriage pact and promises allegiance to what you have entered into, where you put yourself on the church steps and ask, is there anyone else here who wants to marry us? With regard to that issue related to the Progress Party, I can definitely say that we do not. We feel that the whole approach chosen here is pure games for the gallery. It's a way of freeing people and voters, because you can't fit into the treatment framework that the Stortinget has, and that way you have to get out of the responsibility that you have for the situation that hospitals are in. It must be of great concern to the Government to deal with a party that operates the kind of double bookkeeping and games for the gallery on a case-by-case basis. We also saw it during the examination of case No. 1 in the case of the dental settlement system. I am convinced that if it had not been for the Progress Party to run such a race, it would have been possible to have sensible arrangements with the Government. But unfortunately – it can’t be that the opposition has to take responsibility when you have a partner to work with that doesn’t. We have to deal with the opposition to our policies, not the government. But I must say that some of the more strange things I've seen since I ended up in Stortinget, is the proposal that is now coming from the Progress Party, just after the adoption of the frameworks for the same hospitals, and that with the votes of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1533	The next speaker is Asmund Kristoffersen. Kristoffersen also has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1538	Yes, President, I'm not going to use my five assigned minutes. I am not going to go into any description of the financial situation of hospitals. We were partly concerned about that in case No. 1, when we set the dosage of the money for 2003. It is precisely an analysis of the needs that exist in 2003, which determines the amounts in the 2003 budget, which we have recently debated and voted on. What is proposed here is to go in and assess whether to do something about the 2002 budget. Now we are soon in the middle of December, and that is a quite remarkable way of budgeting if one sees that one through the allocation of funds for the operation of hospitals in December 2002 is going to directly influence operations in 2003. In any case, such a way cannot be budgeted. It is, to the extent that there is a maximum of good timing when you now have the 2003 budget under consideration and then you will be presented with a proposal for a budget of DKK 2 billion for 2002 which is alleged to be valid for 2003. So immodest, the Storting can't act at all. This also has to do with the predictability of hospitals and businesses. They need to know when they go into a budgetary year, what framework they're going to put up with the operation after – whether it's going to be more or whether it's going to be smaller. In this case, a further allocation of NOK 2 billion is proposed at the end of the year. This does not provide predictability, and it is precisely through predictability that one can set up an operation adapted to the limits assigned to him at all times. The Labour Party has proposed a fund loan scheme to absorb exceptional expenditure on pensions for 2002 and 2003, and I understand that other parties, including the Progress Party, also agree to this. I think that is very positive. It is important that the money the Storting enters into the budget should be the basis for which a hospital operates, and therefore we must ensure that there is consistency between the appropriations and the level of operations we want. This possibility was fully enjoyed by the Progress Party as they conducted negotiations and joined the outcome of the negotiations between the Progress Party and the Government Parties. The model was laid out for the level in 2003. I think that the only way to deal with this is to deal with the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1559	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1562	This was a remarkable debate. What the Progress Party is doing, most of the parties are doing now every day, and have done so for days on end with the 2002 budget. The members of the Social Committee may only look at the second column of page 2 in their own configuration. It is shown that Chapters 2711 70 and 76 suggest an increase of 35 million. NOK and an increase of 117 million. kr. An increase of Chapter 2750 is proposed for the transport of ambulances, for the treatment of chiropractors and for the transport of sick persons. Additional funding is provided because the need has been there in 2002. In each of the Committees, additional appropriations are granted on the grounds that the need has been greater than expected, and an automatic supplementary allocation is granted. So the Advance Party does exactly the same for health businesses, and then speakers come from the Workers' Party – and Ballo – and try to tell us what the systems are, when we're basically the only ones who know them. That's what's usual. In all areas, budgets are adjusted at the end of the year in line with needs. I can find 50 examples just from the last days. Why shouldn't we also do that with regard to health businesses, as we are reading in this proposition now with deficits? We see that the appropriations we've been on for next year are no longer going to treat patients and operate hospitals, no, it's going to cover the deficit from 2002. That wasn't our assumption. Our premise was to create a budget for 2003 and, of course, to provide additional funding for health care in all other areas, of course, in order to pay the costs in 2002. That's it, sir. Ballo doesn't get it. It is the expenditure incurred by health businesses in 2002 which should be charged to the 2002 budget. That is why we say in our proposal that we should cover the deficit, even if it is in the 2002 budget, and even if we do not know exactly what the deficit is before, if any, in January or February. That's what we're doing, and that's why we're making an estimate. It is wrong that we have the system of using the 2003 money, which we have planned to go to patient treatment, to cover the deficit from previous years. It's an extraordinary and unusual situation. I have mentioned some examples of chapters and items in this setting, and there are many in other settings. So my question is, when it's been the assumption, why won't the Workers' Party and SV vote for our proposal? At least for the solution they have, the situation of health businesses will not help in the coming years. It is now possible for the Workers' Party and the SV to ensure that what is in the 2003 budget is going to operate hospitals in 2003, it will not be possible to pay debts that have arisen this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1575	It was the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen who led me to ask for the floor in connection with this with additional appropriations. I believe that we – like Carl I. Hagen in fact – have the right and the opportunity to grant additional funding if necessary. And we believe that there is a need for that. The additional appropriations we put in are in line with the view we had regarding part of the signals that came from health businesses in our revised national budget, where we added an increase of 2.5-3 pst. in the treatment of patients. Therefore I will be taken seriously in connection with this. With regard to the Progress Party and the budget appropriations for 2003, i.e. the year of operation that is coming, they will be answered separately, but I have to admit that I find it disappointingly little in the comparison between the Advance Party and the Government when it comes to the allocation of health businesses. We added 600 million. kr there too. But we see that from the signals we now get from health care companies about deficits, we have to do something about it. But we want to have control of it, and therefore we do not make this an estimate, but we want the allocation to be made transferable, so that health businesses can have something to do with their liquidity problems and their debt problems now at the turn of the year and as early as possible in 2003. We want a pension scheme, such as: The representative Ballo, like the SV and the Workers' Party, had in mind the creation of a fund as a buffer for pension expenditure, so that the patient treatment should not and must fluctuate in line with the economic fluctuations on the international stock exchange market. In addition, we want rehabilitation sites to be purchased by a central body such as the Rikstrygdeverket and not introduced into the health business economy. It will give healthcare companies even greater opportunity to treat patients, and we do not want healthcare companies to buy rehabilitation facilities. It should be provided by the National Agency for Public Health, so that they can order and pay for the rehabilitation that people who have been treated in the specialist health service need after treatment and operation, and that people directly from the first-line service in the local health service need, not least chroniclers, who need to return to rehabilitation facilities often, but who can do so directly by referring from their firm via the National Agency for Public Health. It is a much better arrangement than what is now being proposed by the Government and the majority in the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1586	St. pp. point 26 is an additional or minor consumption in some areas in 2002. The State has assumed responsibility, i.e. that it is the State that owns and also has a responsibility for the operation of the health establishments that we have. And then it should have actually come in a much better way in this setting as well. For the current year, a large operating deficit has arisen in health enterprises. The deficits experienced in 2002 in the context of patient treatment are expected to rise to the next year and the following year. It should then be covered in again. The proposal made by the Progress Party is nothing different than that contained in the original proposal of the Government, but with a much smaller amount. It is stated to read on page 2 of the proposition, under chapter 706: ‘A total of 10 million is proposed. crowns for the strengthening of tobacco-injury prevention, including for media campaigns.’;» You have redispatched from another post and over there. The system – just to tell the representative, Ballo – is nothing different. Then you should also include it in the budget, but here SV thinks it was okay. The principle is the same. As I said, this is a measure to help businesses and to ensure that patients are treated. Because it is not right, as the representative Höie was in his post, that this does not result in the treatment of one more patient. Well, it does, because in the long term, businesses actually have to cover the deficits they've incurred. This results in a reduction in patient treatment in the long term. Now we also see that more people say that they both have to quit people, re-smokers and lay down departments as a result of the deficits you've incurred. This would be a handshake in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1598	When Emil Langlet signed the cave in 1860, he allowed this hall to be designed as a circus. What strikes you is that Carl I. Hagen dresses that arena extraordinarily good. When you first ensure that there are some reliefs in the caravan tax and – as you wrote in the newspaper – were on the verge of getting an impact on the reduced VAT on barbecue suits, you should not be allowed to mention this as if you do not have any responsibility for the budget that the Stortinget adopts. If it is the case that the Storting should now adopt DKK 2 billion in increased appropriations for 2003, contrary to what has been agreed shortly before, I would assume that there will be a cut-off list in the context of the revised national budget corresponding to the next year, in order to re-establish this sum. That means that SV would not have any control over the consequences of it. I expect protection to be restored on the heart issues of the Advance Party, including reduced charges for U.S. veteran cars and what had to belong to that area. At least we have no control over it. It is clear that we cannot go into this type of proposal, with totally unforeseen effects, once our draft budget has fallen. Had it been so that SV, in cooperation with the Government, had made up the majority of the budget that came next year, I shall guarantee that the Government had not needed an entire department of lawyers to find the text because of the procurator's steps that had to come afterwards. I notice that the government here is completely silent, because it must be quite troubling to have such a partnership with such an unpredictable partner as the Progress Party is in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1607	I have some questions for the Minister of Health. On page 2 of the cancellation, under Chapter 739 Other expenditure, the following is added: ‘Item 21 Hospital testing and development is proposed to increase by 12.6 million. krones. The appropriations are proposed for the keyword ‘transferable’.’» This is, therefore, an additional appropriation proposed by the Government on the 2002 budget, which is clearly intended to be paid in 2003. I assume that these are some attempts and a development that might take a little more time, and that therefore may have to be paid out in January-February of the month. In other words, it is identical to the deficits in hospitals. And that's the deficits in 2002 we're talking about, that's activity in the hospitals that happened in 2002. What is the reason why the Government in this area accepts and proposes an allocation of the 2002 budget to be transferred to 2003 for payments, when the same is not done in relation to health businesses? Why is it proposed to increase the appropriations for air ambulance transport, chiropractor treatment, sick transport, private laboratories and x-ray institutes in the 2002 budget, which are clearly to cover the bills for work carried out in 2002? Why this difference between these examples and health businesses? And can the Minister of Health, please, inform the Storting whether that is the way we have seen it, that parts of the funding granted to health companies for 2003 will have to cover deficits or interest on loans that companies may have to raise if they do not receive additional appropriations, and will this go beyond the healthcare companies' patient treatment next year in relation to what was actually in the 2003 budget? Besides, I have some more questions. On a very large number of items, additional appropriations are allocated and, to this extent, reduced in order to adapt the budget to what is expected to be the accounting for the activity, because it is done on a large number of items – I have not taken examples of everything – that are for voting now. Why does the Government not do the same with regard to health businesses, which are sovereign the most important? Why is it that health enterprises, hospitals' activities, are exempted from the ordinary event at the end of the year, namely to have their appropriations adjusted to what is now expected to be an estimate of the accounts? And how do the Government and the Minister of Health actually intend to solve the problems of lack of money that health businesses will have if they are to pay interest or if they are actually going to cover the deficit from this year over next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1619	With regard to the debate that has now arisen, I would like to remind you that the whole economic structure of healthcare companies is rooted in the treatment that the Stortinge had in spring of St. prp. No 59 for 2001-2002, which was based on an in-depth review of the imbalances that have arisen in the economy of enterprises, and on which the Stortinge gave its support to a scheme which, on the one hand, provided additional appropriations for the operation in 2002, which included requirements to improve the efficiency of hospital operations over several years, and which, on the other, represented a shift in the requirement to balance the accounts of health establishments which would normally be there. In St. prp. No 1 The Government has explained the deterioration of the hospital economy that has taken place during 2002, mainly related to increased compensation of employees because compensation of employees was more expensive than intended, and also related to exceptional pension payments. The government has in St.prp. No 1 proposed a scheme whereby hospitals will have the opportunity to take the efficiency requirement, which is, as a result, larger than it was in spring, over one more year, i.e. use both 2003 and 2004 to balance the budgets. The scheme implies that the debts incurred by enterprises must be repaid in the years following 2004, i.e. after the year in which they are required to balance their accounts for that year. This implies that the issue of the debt recovered goes beyond patient treatment in 2003, mainly because of the capital costs incurred by enterprises as a result of the debts they incurred in 2002, but not because of the demand for repayment of this debt because of the requirement that will then apply in the years following the balancing of the economy. It's the government's arrangement as clearly described in the proposition. And to the representative Hagen I can report that in my post during the examination of case No. 1 today stated that the reviews of pension costs that pension corporations and health businesses have now done indicate that the burden on the accounts in 2002 is significantly lower than previously feared.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1628	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1054]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1648	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1057]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1665	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1057]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1673	We are now ready to go to voting in case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1680	A total of 35 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–4, 11, 12 and 14–20, from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 5, 6 and 24, from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 7, 13, 25 and 26, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 8-10 and 32-35, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 21, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 22, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 23, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 27-31, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Progressive Party, proposal No. 36, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No. 37–39, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1–35 is included in the vote and proposals Nos. 36–39 are distributed in the seats of the representatives. Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, is distributed in a rich edition. Proposal No. 13 is in the setting page 111 placed under the wrong fraction. The right thing is that the proposal should be from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The President will present the vote in such a way that it will first be put to the vote on minority proposals under the framework area 15, then on minority proposals under the framework area 16, and at the end of the vote on the motion for a resolution under the framework areas 15 and 16. Bent Höie – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1720	In the light of the clarifications that have come to light in the debate, and not least the presentation by the Council of State, the Right and the Christian People's Party will draw up proposal No. Thirty-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e1725	Proposal No. So 36 is drawn. Then we're ready for voting. Proposals Nos. 8, 9 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e3308	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the rules on training aid so that the benefit can be maintained throughout the training cycle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e3323	Proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Workers' Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 is, as mentioned above, distributed in a rich edition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e3328	We want separate voting, so that we can vote in favour of proposal No. 6 as it is now available in a enriched form.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e3335	It is then first voted on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e4901	Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to resume the suspension of pensionstopping in June 2002 before the social security settlement in 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e4918	I ask that we take the vote again. I was a little uncertain about what proposal it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e4925	That is proposal No. 6, by Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party: ‘The government asks the Government to resume the suspension of pensionstopping in June 2002 before the social security settlement in 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e4931	The SV had to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e4938	Then I suggest we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e4950	Proposals 1, 2, 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the allocation to the Deaf-blind Society of Norway is adjusted to approximately the same level as it was in 1995 and that the aid in 2003 is granted a supplement of SEK 550 000.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the age limit for students’ entitlement to the rehabilitation allowance after illness is to be amended or repealed, and to propose this to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘It asks the Government, on the basis of the evaluation of the reform of single dependants, to assess the need for changes in legislation and forms of support and, where appropriate, to make proposals so that more people can achieve the objective of self-sufficiency and qualification.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider changing the rules of popular fear on the granting of child care to a single mother or father, so that any misconduct which, by reason of its incapacity, has to leave the necessary supervision of children to others is also covered by this legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e4982	Then we're going to vote on minority proposals in Framework Area 16. Proposals Nos. 32, 33, 34 and 35, from the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 32 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e6920	Proposals Nos. 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2003 to submit a plan for setting up a resource department at the Trondheim prison together with a timeframe for implementation.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the current recruitment rule for drug-assisted treatment/rehabilitation for drug addicts and to ensure that the sick drug addicts are legally entitled to substitution treatment both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the number of private psychologists and psychiatrists in 2003 to be brought up against the objective of an increase of 50 pst. of these funds by the year 2006 at the latest.’» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that regional health establishments conclude long-term contracts with the private health sector, including private laboratories and x-ray institutes, and that framework conditions are provided that are adequate, long-term and predictable.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘Chap. 2751 Medicinal products are converted into an estimate.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e6957	Proposals Nos. 13, 25 and 26, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, to voting. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to explore the current system of alternative funding systems for specialist healthcare, the aim of which is to achieve a better use of resources adapted to the patient’s overall need for a comprehensive healthcare service and where the funding system stimulates interaction between the different levels of treatment.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government, by presenting the Revised National Budget for 2003, asks the Government to submit proposals for the start of the building of the Radium Hospital Education and Research Building as well as the financing plan and with the start of construction in October 2003.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the consequences of a treatment guarantee for children and young people with mental illness in relation to existing legislation and to assess the organisational and personnel aspects of such a scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e6984	Proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e8872	Proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the start of the construction of New Aarhus during 2004’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e8887	Proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2003, to carry out an evaluation of the current system of self-payment in the case of assisted fertilisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e8902	Proposal No. 21, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to prepare reimbursement tariffs for the day-to-day treatment of intra-medical patients and to make such proposals during 2003.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e8917	Then we shall vote on the proposal No. 11, 12, 14–17, 19 and 20, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the need for tour services for chiropractors and any other relevant professional groups, and to present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner since the spring of 2003.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the location of the data processing function by setting up a new national Register of Medicinal Products’. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to draft a proposal for a government loan or fund scheme to enable healthcare companies and partners in the specialist health service to meet their pension obligations.The government is asking for a return to the Storting with a proposal on how the fluctuations in the pension costs of the specialist health service can be evened out, including how the government can contribute to the compensation of the exceptionally large pension contributions for 2002. The government is asked to estimate the average pension contribution for 2002 and 2003 and to propose how to take this premium into account in the specialist healthcare economy and budget for 2003. The proposal is presented in the revised national budget 2003. ‘... Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government in the expected wage and price increases for specialist health services to take account of factors relevant to the pension costs of the specialist health service other than the growth of wages and salaries. The following aspects are emphasised: increased pension costs related to increased number of non-performing pension costs related to increasing number of older workers and other underlying demographic conditions State-initiated changes in pension rules The Government also asks the Government to consider taking into account any other factors relevant to the pension costs of specialist health care and the budgetary deflator of wage and price growth in the Revised National Budget for 2003.’» [[coordination rules, rules of calculation in the public interest and in the statutory occupational pension schemes]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment by Health South of an experiment with a semi-interconnected service offer at Horten Hospital in 2003.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the National Center for Foster Medicine at St. Olav’s hospital maintains its offer of further training in ultrasound diagnostics for midwives and to provide NTNU with the necessary funds for this training offer equivalent to 2.5 million. crowns in 2003.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with a new funding model for the Glitreklinikken AS, Granheim Lungesenter, the training institutions and health sports centres in the context of the review of the financing of the specialist health service.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the professional good operation and sufficient capacity of the Blind Alliance rehabilitation centres and to investigate the organisational location and future financing model in the submission of the Revised National Budget in the spring of 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e8987	Proposal No 18, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that the Lofoten Hest and Health Centre Foundation is provided with additional expenses incurred by 2 million. crowns.’» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will vote on the motions for resolutions. 37, 38 and 39, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian Flake Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e8997	Can we vote on these proposals individually?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e9004	Proposal No. 37, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess how to ensure the economic basis for the continued use of MR bus in Finnmark, rented out from Finland.’ The Labour Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e9012	We also support the three proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e9026	Proposal No. 38, from the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to prepare the transfer of the funding of sick transport from the Rikstrygdeverket to the regional health companies in the follow-up to the Hagen Committee.’ [[the financing system of the specialist health service]] The Workers' Party and the Senter Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e9043	Proposal No. 39, from the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive assessment of the future guidelines for the development of neonatal care in Norway in the context of the revised national budget.’ The Workers' Party and the Senter Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e9058	Then there would be a vote on all minority proposals, and we will move on to the vote on the motion for a resolution and start with the framework area 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e10612	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e10625	The roman numerals outside of the frame range of 15 will then be grazed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e10636	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting. The right has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e10670	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e10683	Then we've reached the 16th Framework Area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e12570	During the debate a correction has been made in I. Actual amount under cap. 732 Item 70 shall be 312 690000 and under Chapter. 2711 item 78 shall be the appropriate amount of 700 751,000. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e12617	Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote. The working party has informed us that they now support this setting, after they have been deflected before. The President understands it so that the Central Party and the Left Party also support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e12661	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e12681	Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e12700	The Working Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e12735	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e13577	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1 by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 2, from Ola D. Incense, on behalf of the Center Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones732Regional health enterprises79 Deficit coverage of health enterprises, can be transferred, granted at 2000000’» [[new]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e13634	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, is then taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones732Regional health enterprises79 Deficit coverage of health enterprises, estimate appropriations, can be transferred, allocated at 2000000’» [[new]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e13675	We shall not vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14549	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 28 November 2002. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 22):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14567	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 28 November 2002. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 18):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14582	Then we finished voting in case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14596	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President proposes that the representative Simonsen should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14607	Thank you to the members of the Committee for the orderly and proper work they have done in the Committee. Both the majority and the minority have done a good job, with the priorities of the various parties well achieved. The plural setting is that of the governmental parties and the Progress Party. They have negotiated an agreement within the framework of what happened in the Financial Committee and what has happened in the Stortinget. They're making some adjustments, which I'm assuming they'll be briefing themselves. There will be no primary and subsidiary voting at this vote. Here the Progress Party has negotiated an agreement, and that is what will be the voting theme. The Party for Progress is thus responsible for this budget, in line with the Government Parties. They are responsible for the cuts made in the various areas and take responsibility for them when negotiating with other lots. The special feature of this setting is that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have negotiated the overall arrangement they are behind, within the framework that the Stortinge has given to the Committee. The same batches are also able to gather on common notes. In addition to making voting much easier, it also shows that these parties wish to demonstrate that there are alternatives, that the opposition can stand together on an alternative to what the government parties and the Progress Party show. Moreover, there are no framework-independent proposals. It's not because we didn't have it, but in the situation we're in, so we don't have reason to promote and repeat the proposals from the financial position or conclude the comments with our own proposals. In the original government proposal, there were two budget winners. Private schools and private colleges have grown far beyond other areas. The growth rate for private schools is close to 40 pst. in relation to the same schools in 2002. They get a growth of almost $0.5 billion. That means 2 pst. By students who go to private schools, they get a growth of almost 40 pst. Private colleges get a growth of nearly 17 pst. In any case, it cannot be explained by changing norms, as was done in relation to private primary and secondary schools. Following negotiations with the Progress Party, this trend towards prioritising private schools has been reinforced by the return of 12-million higher education institutions, which are private institutions. kr. In the government's proposal, research comes out decently. It is unlikely to reach the OECD average level during 2005, as foreseen, but a good growth has been introduced and if it is not a budget win, it has at least gained growth. The rest are losers in this budget. If primary and secondary public schools were to grow the same growth as private schools, they would have to have had $20 billion more to run these schools. In such a perspective, even SV's NOK 8 billion is going to be added to the local government sector for small amounts of money. The taps are the Community solutions and the common school, the common public school. The losers are school leisure schemes, where consequences are increased. The losers are camp schools, which get earmarked funds, but what you add in the setting is not a compensation for the parental payment as it is today. We're probably going to have to assume that this is going to go beyond camp schools. Fewer students will receive an offer of camp schools because they do not compensate for the self-payment that is currently in the system. What goes on again is that, as I said, it is a weakening of Community solutions and a weakening of adult training organisations. They too have been affected in this budget. The consequences are increasing the proportion of parents who want to have children in the school leisure system, the drop-out of camp-school stays and the increase in the proportion of those who are to take adult training through non-profit organisations, adult training institutions and distance learning. These are the consequences of this budget, and I am addressing one proposal that the minority has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14638	The representative of Rikvam has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14643	Not surprisingly, SV makes it its main concern to attack a reasonable increase in the grant to private schools. I assume that the representative, Mr Rikvam, has skipped the justification of the state budget, with the statements he has now made from the Parliamentary Chair. Private schools have for a long time been under-priority both to the decision of the Storting and to comparable figures from public schools. Now, when we take the KOSTRA figures into account, private schools get a fair share of what they have decided to have in relation to the average cost that we spend in public schools, except that they don't get compensated for the expenses they have for rent. But the main point of Reikvam is that he has a lot of faith in the community school and the public school. In spite of this, we are repeatedly conducting studies that show that almost one-fifth of the students leaving primary public schools today lack elementary knowledge in their own native language, and there's about as little of the results in mathematics and accounting. Isn't it a cross of thought for SV that the public school, which SV has been supporting, and which has been working with the Workers' Party for decades, leads to such poor results with as much resource effort as we already contribute to the school? Should it not also be a cross-section of mind for SV that when parents on a voluntary basis will pay to have their own children, students, get better education than the public school can provide, is SV against allowing them to spend their own money to take care of their own children?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14652	I record that the representative Voie believes that an increase of nearly 40 pst. to private schools for 2 pst. by Norwegian students are «reasonable», 40 pst. increase to the 2 pst. is reasonable. At the same time, we know that within public school there are cuts. This is not a bad will on the part of the municipalities. It is not a bad will on the part of the municipalities when they have to cut their school budgets. It's simply a consequence of us running a starvation of the municipal sector. What is now happening is a decline, a weakening, of the public education system, the public common school as the common meeting place it will be for all children. I think it's incredibly important that we be able to take care of that school, that we be able to hold on to the fact that we're going to have a school where all children meet, where everyone, regardless of background, regardless of culture, regardless of religion, has a common meeting place and is challenged at their positions. This is the education project that we have in common. That's what we're about to weaken, and it's pretty serious. I don't see any reason for that 2 pst. by pupils attending private schools will grow. We spend $1.3 billion today on these schools, and then we're going to increase this share by $500 million. NOK, half a billion, while at the same time we cut within the public school. So I'm clearly concerned, just like the Right, that we within the public school, and probably also within the private school, don't manage to capture all the students well enough and provide good enough custom-made training. It's a challenge we're going to face together to do something about, but we're not doing it by weakening the primary school, weakening the public school. It's not the way to improve the reading skills of the 98 pst. of the children who go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14659	It is certainly unparliamentary to describe the posts of the representative, Mr Rikham, as customs duties with figures, but at least it is tempting. It's going to be completely wrong to use percentages when you're starting with a year-long bias in the disfavor of private schools. Also in this budget, SV carries out its strong opposition to the private schools. I guess it's in line with SV's slogans: People's Power Against Money Power. The people are made up of many people, many students and many parents. Why would SV decide for everyone? Why will SV prevent parents from choosing a school different from the one the municipality owns? Are those who today choose private schools, Christian hospitals or schools based on alternative pedagogy, in the opinion of SV not full members of the people? Shouldn't parents have public authority in school matters? Is it the choice of school owner to decide whether parents should have influence over their children's training? One more thing: when SV makes a large number of its money move away from private schools in its alternative proposal, we also have to look at what those funds are used for. The appropriations for private schools and private higher education were cut by over 300 million. kr. It is mainly moved to the SFO system, i.e. for the care of children, not for the training of children. So the amount of money put into the SFO scheme would be added to additional school hours for more class steps. Then maybe SV should follow up their concern for lack of money for teaching by using the money they release from some students, for teaching others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14668	In addition to using percent, I also used absolute numbers. If the representative of Sortevik had heard of it, I also used absolute numbers. There's a growth of almost $0.5 billion for private schools, from about $0.5 billion for private schools. 1.3 billion. Converted to percent, it's going to be barely 40 pst. That's the actual ratio. Also in our alternative budget there is a growth in private schools, a growth of approximately. 13 pst. It's probably 150 million. kr to private schools in our alternative budget, so we are also willing to give more to private schools. We imagine that more people will seek to establish private schools, and we have a law today that says that if private schools are established, they will have a certain cost coverage. We're also adding a larger growth to these schools, because we see that it can happen. What surprises me is that it's going to be automatic in public financing of private solutions. We fully accept that people should be able to establish their private schools, but it should not be automatic for anyone that it is the community that is going to finance this, and finance it partly far beyond what public schools get. In winter we had a rain example from the teachers at the Beckelag school. We could discuss the calculation, but it was assumed that if they had established a similar private school, they would have gotten 2 million. kr more to drive for than they got. So we can say that this equation doesn't hold, but it was at least an attempt to compare. So today, with today's funding, we have a good funding of private schools, better than the ones that most of the countries we want to compare with have. What is now the challenge is to finance the public school and give it living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14679	I hear that SV is busy with the 2 pst. who goes to private school, and fears the consequences that they get something more added. In this line I would draw attention to the fact that our committee also has a k in its name that stands for church. When the committee leader was not so much involved, I would like to raise a question on the occasion of the church budget, so that he can elaborate on it. SV says in a note that they ‘refer to the great importance of the Church for the Norwegian people’. SV also has under the hood. 5, Notes on chapters in the area of the Church, a note that cooperation between the Councils should be strengthened and that the working environment of other church employees should be monitored. The Christian People's Party agrees with this, but in this budget is particularly concerned with baptismal training, as a communication has been submitted to this effect, and that there is a proposal for a five-million allocation. kr in that context. SV is not included in a comment from the committee majority, which says that baptism training is an important prerequisite for maintaining a widely engaged church. It is gratifying that a baptism training grant is now being adopted, as opposed to last year, when the opposition parties removed the 2 million. kr, which was then proposed. But I want to ask the chairman of the committee: what relationship does SV see that there is between the Church's importance for people and baptismal education? Does SV see the need for financial resources and staffing? I see that SV refers to the processing of the message and will certainly come back to this, but SV is after all included in the 5 million. kr. I expect the SV to have an opinion on how to receive support to follow up the baptism training plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14694	St.meld. No 7 on baptismal training is discussed in the Committee. That's what we're going to do for the next month, with hearings where we invite different organisations. Then we're going to cancel out our position and what we're going to think about the baptismal training. But also the minority, as Elsa Scarbøvik pointed out, is adding this 5 million. kr as early as next year, before we have started working on the baptismal training. We do that because we accept the argument that the ministry has made, that it may be important to get some projects started, start up a lot of work around municipalities and in the community context. We realize that, and so we've backed this up. But what we're finally going to think about the baptismal training and the whole big message, Elsa Scarbøvik and others are going to know when the committee starts work. Then I record that Elsa Scarbøvik and the Christian People's Party agree with us in two comments that we have on the Council of Commons, on trying to work together across the boundaries of the Council of Commons. These are the signals we have received from many councils. They want closer cooperation to make better use of resources. So Christian People's Party now says they agree with this. But we do not get a majority for that remark, because the Christian People's Party did not support us, because the government parties and the Progress Party did not support us. Had they done so, we would have given a clear signal to the Council of State: here the Council of State has a mission to do, to participate in the kind of cooperation requested by many Councils. Now I expect the Council of State can make it independent of us when that kind of enquiry comes. But it would have been good if there had been a match between what Elsa Scarbøvik now says from the pulpit, and what she makes visible in the setting. Something more than that we're actually not asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14702	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14705	Like the chairman of the committee, I would like to commend the Committee on Very Good Cooperation on this budget. Education policy is mostly about giving each individual a chance to reach out for goals, to realise their potential and to realize their dreams for the future. But education policy is also about taking responsibility. After this round of budgets and after marking the performances of the Government in the field of school, it must be allowed to say that one can be quite thoughtful. Once again we see that there are more rematches, such as. plus or minus one year at school and change in private school law. The result of this is a shooting trench debate, with the consequence that the principle debate overshadows the practical one. ‘Quality at school’ is the new magic word that will cover the Right and the Government will not provide more money. For what should a belief, when the Council of State states that the school budgets are to a small extent the Ministry of Education and Research budget, but that is municipal economy? For what are the consequences of the budget available today? From January or February onwards, the price of those who have children in the school leisure system increases because of the halving of State subsidies. Adult training offers are going to be worse. In addition, other municipal services may be poorer or more expensive because of too small grants to municipalities. According to the Government, this is a real quality promise for our education system. Then one must be allowed to ask: is this black paint? It is not black paint to shed light on the results of the policies that the government parties and the Progress Party have now adopted, especially in view of all the feedback we receive from municipalities that are struggling. I mention some: Stord, Holmedal, Askvoll, Stryn, Porsgrund, Bamle, Kragerø. I would also like to mention what Group leader Gunnar Pedersen, Right, from Troms has now proposed, namely a saving by the students providing maintenance and cleaning of the school building. Nor is it black paint to indicate that the Workers' Party has made other priorities in its alternative budget or to refer to alternative budgets of the SV and the Centre Party. I believe that the government parties are based on a sort of simplified approach to belief in competition in school policy: that comparison of schools and the publication of the results of individual schools should lead to poor schools stretching to improve, and that competition from several private schools should lead to a better job for the public, with no more money. The budget is unfair and backward, it is not a bet on the future, but rather the opposite. Instead of refurbishing the public education offer, we now have a reduction. An example of this is the school leisure system. It's a law-enforced task. In many families, both parents are out in work. We know that they need a care and supervision offer for small school children both before and after school. This again means security for our very least. The progressing party suggests that SFO is a kindergarten, a storage place for the children. Does the Government's proposal mean that they share this view, that they now want more expensive and worse SFOs, so that the scheme can be built up and dissolved, as with the health care of the students? I would like to commend the initiative of Kristin Clemet to get «quality in school» on the agenda. But why, at the same time, this hoarseness over the common school? We need to be able to do two things at the same time, put critical searchlights on the quality of school, while not putting a black mark on everything the public school has contributed, and can contribute in the future. We're going to take the quality debate with an open mind, but we're not going to get the quality definition of government. We are concerned that the school should be a meeting place for diversity, it should contribute to cohesion by providing equal opportunities for all and representing a common platform for all children and young people. Everyone is going to have the right to participate in the new society, and then we know that we have to get to a equal right to education. Different access to knowledge must not create a basis for new social divisions in society and with different participation in decision-making. The Joint School shall provide each student with the opportunity to develop. Equal opportunities for different students require different treatment for each individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14734	The government has granted 50 million. In the case of an in-depth study programme in the budget. The point is to ensure that high school students who have low-income parents receive scholarships to purchase all the syllabus books. The Labour Party solution has always been to lend one or two books to all students, including to those with parents with good advice. That means that the students who have parents with poor advice are not being helped at all. My question to the representative of Bekkelem Orheim is very simple: why would the Workers' Party cut off the textbook grant that the Government has put in, a cut that means taking away students from low-paid families? Why go back to a lending scheme that is actually a real subsidisation of medium- and high-income families at the expense of low-income families?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14743	I'll try to give you a very short answer. As the representative Eriksen knows, there are quite clear differences in what the Workers' Party and the Right will do in terms of investing in the students. What distinguishes the Labour Party and the Right in many ways is that we want to make sure that there are some good common solutions that take care of everyone, no matter what income you have. We're actually worried and afraid that we're going to have a development where you're going to be tested against the income you have, the income your parents have. It may be that the public will spend more money on the state budget by having some universal collective arrangements, but the Labour Party is willing to pay the price for it in order to get good arrangements to embrace everyone, regardless of the social background or the income of their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14748	The representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, focuses a lot on resources in his post. She pointed out that, in relation to primary and secondary schools, municipal economics is an important part of the school's everyday life. I agree that with regard to primary and secondary education, municipal economy is an important issue in order to achieve some of those objectives, but not all alone. We know that for the learning process, the interaction between teacher and student is crucial. Not everything is necessarily solved with increased resources. Having said that, I'm wondering what's the background to the analysis that the local economy is as tight as it is. This is not a new phenomenon, it has happened over several years. One reason is that expenditure growth is larger than revenue. The second is that the municipal sector receives new tasks that are not compensated in the form of money. Let me take an example where the representative Bekkemel Orheim got a hit in Stortinget. This was the increase in the profile of the school environment law, which meant physical demands, which were not followed up by money from the majority of the population. It's just showing you a new problem. I demand the rhetoric of the Workers' Party: what is the Workers' Party's alternative in terms of quality bets? That bit completely disappeared in the focus on resources. They were concerned with unsocial cuts and distribution policies. Yes, distribution policy, but that is not where, in the distribution policy, the quality of the school is determined. So I ask: what is the Labour Party's alternative in the quality debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14757	It may seem that some still believe that the Workers' Party has power in Norway. But if we look at the last five years, it's like the Workers' Party has been with government for a year and a half, and it's Arne Lyngstad's own party, the Christian People's Party, which has, to a very large extent, had its hand on the wheel of Norwegian politics. I believe that all parties should take a primary responsibility for the fact that the municipalities have come into the situation they have done for many years. I think it's very difficult to point to a single reason, but a certain degree of self-criticism can well take all the parties in this room in that way. When it comes to how we can raise the quality of Norwegian school, I think there's a lot of things we have to do. We're trying out flexibility, new methods of learning, which the Council of State has initiated. But what the Workers' Party doesn't believe in is that we're going to be able to get more quality in school by cutting resources, by removing the split by raising the limit of how many students can go in the individual class. We now see that the municipality around the country is going to resign and cut in teaching positions, and we see a development, which I referred to in my post, where the right-wing politicians in Troms propose that the students now start to stand for cleaning and maintenance in school. Then my question is back to the Christian People's Party: Shouldn't we also go together in an alliance to try to renovate the common school? I do not know if the government parties receive the same e-mails as I do. But at least lately I have been subjected to a massive pressure both through e-mails, letters and telephones from frustrated, upset parents from all over the country, who are genuinely concerned about the developments we see in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14768	Ursula Evje – for replication. The President regrets that he missed the desire for a line in the first place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14773	It's accepted, President! We have seen in the budget setting that the Workers' Party, also in our committee, has entered into a relationship with SV and the Center Party. This suggests that there will be a coalition that does not seem to respect either laws or conventions. The triangle has an understanding, in comments, that enrolments in private schools are entitled to the same wage increase and the same pension benefits that their colleagues have earned in public schools. But they are highly doubtful about a system in which private individuals are compensated for, for example. the wage increases negotiated by their trade unions with the Ministry. Section 16 of the Private School Act on Pay and Working Conditions states: ‘In the case of schools approved under § 3(a) to (d) of the Act here, teaching staff and schoolteachers shall have the right to pay and work conditions such as teaching staff and principals in the corresponding public schools.’ This means a dramatic increase in transfers to private schools. This is a good and equivalent principle that the Workers' Party has been fighting for many, many years. Has the Workers' Party now changed its position to the degrees of employees' rights so that those employed in the private sector are not subject to the principle of equality and equal pay, or is it such that the Workers' Party will review the parents' right to choose schools for its children and that the Declaration of Human Rights so provided does not apply in Norway? Is it good socialist policy that only the rich should be covered by paragraph 2 of the Declaration of Human Rights that everyone should have the right to choose?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14789	I was tempted to say that there was a new approach in the debate on private schools. I would like to say to the representative of the Progress Party that the Workers' Party's position on private schools should be reasonably known for this Chamber. We're not against private schools, but we're against a free play of private schools like what we see now the government adds up to. And why are we? Well, the whole point is that we can't close our eyes to what's going on in the municipalities, where almost all the kids have their school days. Now, what you're saying is that you guarantee minimum standards in private school, but you don't give the same opportunity for public school, and it's not about pushing employees' rights in front of you. Then the question is, who will be allowed to go to the good school in the future when there is a struggle for places? As Gudmund Hernes said, we cannot create a system that subsidizes social inequality. I do not understand that the right-wing parties, which are usually opposed to the State subsidising and using taxpayers' money unnecessarily, now believe that it is a priority public task to provide support for the establishment of private education services. If the Progress Party had been consistent, they should have been opposed to giving taxpayers' money to that kind of action. But here we see that a changing argument and rhetoric, depending on what fits the current case. We believe it is important to protect the community school. There go most of the students. We know that the development that is now taking place in the municipalities will make many people see it profitable to put the offer out in public schools and to set up a private school that has completely different framework conditions than our public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14799	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14802	Previously used the term ‘right parties’. Very well known, there is only one Right in Norway. The 2003 State budget is one of the best budgets for Norwegian education for a very long time. In total, the department’s budget is DKK 17.3 billion for higher education, an increase of over 7 pst. in one year. Study funding is increasing by over 19 p.m. The funding for research is NOK 12.3 billion, an increase of a total of 640 million. kr compared to 2002, in addition to the extension of the tax credit scheme for research in industry. The quality reform of higher education is being fully implemented in our colleges and universities. 510 million. kr in the State budget is assumed to be used for this reform, while strengthening research in the sector and creating more scholarship positions. The government's strong commitment to higher education and research takes place in a very tight state budget where the main objective is lower interest rates and better competitiveness. This shows a comprehensive policy in which the Government is committed to basic research, innovation and innovation as a fundamental element of our future welfare development. At the same time, the cushioned wage and cost growth is facilitated in order to secure more jobs, to provide room for lower interest rates and to stimulate further growth and development. Research and development are fundamental to our knowledge production. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Government can find room for increased research efforts. It helps to strengthen our national competitiveness in the short and long term. The municipal sector is known as the principal responsibility for financing primary and secondary education. In this context, lower interest rates will also be an important contribution to providing municipalities with a better opportunity to discharge their responsibilities for the school area and to follow up the Government's commitment to quality in school. In the state budget, it's earmarked 380 million. kr to quality development. The funds shall include, inter alia: is used as a scholarship for continuing education teachers in mathematics and Norwegian. It is just one of many examples of quality in school and education being put on the agenda in a good and offensive way. It is nice to note that the knowledge school has again emerged in the public debate on the content and quality of education. A number of research reports have shown that there is no direct link between our high resource consumption per person. pupils in primary school and good learning outcomes. It is therefore important and right to focus a critical searchlight on how we use the resources. The strengthening of Norwegian training, the designation of bonus and demonstration schools, new teacher training, enhanced research related to the field of practice and the follow-up to the various proposals of the Quality Committee – all examples of continuing actions in the State budget, which together contribute to a better school for all students. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, several budget lines have been further strengthened. For my part, I find reason to mention as pleasant, as opposed to SV, that the grant to the upper secondary schools has continued, and that the student travel allowance scheme has been maintained. The Upper Secondary School must now have its own grant rate incorporated into the private schools grant system. For the Right, it is also extremely positive that the Government has found room to increase grants to private schools. When it appears that private schools over several years have been compensated for a much lower cost share than previously foreseen by the Stortinget, it is disappointing that the opposition is unable to support this which is actually a statutory grant scheme. It is tempting to ask what is really the opposition's alternative school policy. At best one must be able to say that the changes proposed in the budget are puzzled. The biggest bet, if anyone can call it a bet, is to cut the grant for education in private schools and then add the money to welfare tasks without school policy effects, such as SFO and free school books. Is this the alternative school policy of the Workers' Party, the SVs and the Centre Party? Are all the parties so satisfied with the government's school policy that they have no alternative solutions or directions to indicate for a better school? With the present state budget, which will be adopted today by the majority of the United Kingdom, our education and business system is given a new boost, which in turn shows that both the Right and the Government's school commitments are being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14834	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14837	I have read the press release from the representative Voie on the budget, which is a list of things in the budget – and although not all money is, it is at least a list of money use. I'm busy with one post, and it's about quality development in school. Let me then shoot in there that the Workers' Party presents in any context a discussion about quality in school, and I'm sure in many areas we can agree on things that can improve quality. But when the Government and the Right cut many other educational fields, I expected a sharp increase in what I see as the flag cause of the Right and the Government, namely quality development. And then we find that there's an increase of 20 million. kr to the whole School-Norway! Now I said quality doesn't necessarily mean money, but I've noticed that the council recently visited a school in the Drama, where she among other things. medal awarded. I read that the school had received $1 million. kr in order to be a guinea pig, or to participate in quality development. I am sure that around the whole of Skole-Norway will find cows of schools who would like to take part in that quality development, and who would like to receive 1 million. kr. But the situation is not like that. Rather, on the contrary, it is cut in the schools around the whole of Norway. When there is a modest increase in what I see as the Right Flag and Bet area, does Voie think that there is enough money in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14848	Quality developments in schools do not depend on money alone. I believe that both I and the representative of Bjørnstad will agree. A number of measures are being taken at the same time by the Government. The replicator also knows, and has been involved in adopting, a new teacher training that provides the basis for getting a better teacher in school, which is actually the best foundation for good quality school development. In addition, the State budget provides, only to mention some individual items, a separate grant scheme for those teachers who will undertake competent follow-up and further training in Norwegian, mathematics and computer science, among others. Of the item mentioned by the representative Bjørnstad, it is actually 380 million. kr for distribution to quality development measures. Once the government and the government have appointed so-called bonus schools and demonstration schools, which get a few extra dollars for the good work they do, it is precisely to stimulate the schools that are doing well, to make an even better effort, so that those who hang on a bit can be inspired, can get up on a higher level, they too, and get the desire and initiative and measures to be involved in the positive work that we have to do across schools, across professional groups, in fact also across parties, we should get to the common promise we believe we need for a quality improvement and quality improvement of Norwegian school. I believe so, and I hope that the Workers' Party will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14859	I have two questions for the representative Voie from the Right – one question about a small but important matter, and one question about a big and important matter. Firstly, I call for the involvement of the Right in order to obtain a clarification that ensures the continuation of government funding of security training for fishermen in a way that is recommended by the users. The scheme was established by the Stortinget in 1985 and has shown its clear justification. Questions have been asked in writing and orally earlier in Stortinget, among others. to the Council of State and reference is made to the 2003 budget. The money seems to be in place. Why is it not right that the majority comment also states that the scheme should continue in its current form, with a course vessel, which users are very concerned about? The major, important issue is quality reform. In the agreement relating to the budgetary procedure of the Education Committee, the Progress Party and the Government Parties have negotiated a note on this reform. I would ask the fractional leader from the Right, the party that also has the Minister of Education, to confirm that the term ‘continually assess’ involves active work and active action by the government parties to ensure the documented and sound full funding of the quality reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14868	Safety training for fishermen is currently taking place both at fixed installations on the coast, linked to our fishing training institutions, and at the accident and emergency services we have in different places on the coast, as well as the form of ambulance activities of the representative Sortevik. What is the best form of training, and how it is to be organised in the future, do users, in fact, also have different views and input in relation to it. I perceive that there are alternative ways of conducting this training, either by one of such ambulances or by several ships linked to the permanent training institutions. From the Right we are willing – I also hope the Government is willing – to look at how security training can be organised in the best possible way in the future. With regard to the quality reform of higher education, I think it is gratifying that both our colleges and universities now with great enthusiasm and enthusiasm, as I experience the feedback from different professional environments and from different management teams in these institutions, start implementing the money and the leadership that has been deployed by the Stortingets and by the Government. The ongoing assessment of the reform, I consider as part of the ongoing work that the ministry is doing all the time, and that we are getting feedback both to the various parties and to the Stortinget. The Ministry has ongoing governance dialogue meetings with the various institutions, where they receive feedback on the situation. I assume that if there are things here that do not go as the Stortinget has provided, we will get feedback to the Stortinget, at the latest in connection with the revised national budget, possibly in connection with the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14879	I understand that Søren Fredrik Voie needs to defend the Government and give praise to the Government, but this got the character of a tribute! There might also be a need for that sometimes. I agree with Søren Fredrik Voie that it is the puzzle that the opposition does within this framework. That is because we have been assigned a framework that is puzzled! We haven't given it to ourselves, but it's right with the Progress Party that has given us that frame. If you want to see our priorities and our areas of activity, you will find it in our alternative budgets for the financial position. What we have shown with this setting is that we can also give priority in small frameworks, and that there is an alternative to the regime we have today. So some of what Søren Fredrik Voie brought up. First of all, this with higher education. That was good, too. Everything was fine. Not long ago, the Stortinget adopted a quality reform. The signals we now receive from the sector are no tribute to this budget, they are strong warnings. There is no consistency between what we have adopted in the quality reform and the appropriations we are making. There are clear feedback from the sector. Do you have to ignore this? We in SV choose to take this seriously. We're also saying that if we're going to implement the fine words we've adopted, we're going to have to take some stronger action in the sector. The same applies to research. It is true that there has been a relatively strong increase – I said it has become a decent research budget – but there is a terrible long way left to the goal we have set, namely the OECD average level. Then my question becomes to Søren Fredrik Voie: Think, and think, Søren Fredrik Voie and Right that we will reach the OECD average level, as decided by the Storting, with the escalation that is now? We have two years, 2004-2005, to do it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14890	I find that within the framework that we have at our disposal, SV has, through its attempts at re-prioritisation, chosen to donate money to welfare tasks at the expense of quality and development of education and the offer that students receive from the subject. But that's a conscious priority, says Rolf Reikvam in this context. In the case of warnings from the sector, I think we must have been on two different sides of the track, not to say two different cloths. The feedback both in writing and orally from the University and Higher Education Council, which concerns all institutions in this sector, is that the funds allocated to the budget we are now to adopt are sufficient and a good basis for implementing the Quality Reform. This has been said in hearings attended by the representative, Mr Requam, and it has been said in many other contexts. In fact, it has also been stated by the students, for every time we have been consulted, they have started by saying that the draft budget which we are about to adopt today is a good budget for the university and higher education sectors. Do we reach the OECD target within the specified time? It's an important question and a question to which it's very difficult to answer yes or no – not to say absolutely impossible, because it's not just up to the Government, it's not just up to the Storting, but it's also up to our partners, so it's the business we're going to deal with. Compared to the public contribution, Norway is well off in terms of the OECD average. But in relation to the proportion that Norwegian business spends on research, we have a lot to pick up. With the tax incentives now put into this state budget, I very much hope that we will go a long way further. I also hope that we will work together to make good arrangements for business, which will give us the desired development in this area also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14901	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14904	Following negotiations with the Government Parties, the Progress Party has concluded a budgetary agreement in the Financial Committee with good results in the field of the Education Committee, Framework Section 17: A further DKK 1 billion is earmarked for the refurbishment of schools.Wages for camper school stays for 60,000 primary school students are secured through earmarked funding. No conversion is carried out until the case is properly clarified and any proposals addressed.More equality between public and private schools is underlined. This will be followed up with concrete appropriations for the Upper Secondary School, Kongshaug Musikgymnas, Oslo Merchantile Højskole and the Menighetssösterhämmens Högskole.The UK will be given an account of the resource situation in primary and secondary schools during the first half of 2003. Through negotiations with the same parties in the Education Committee, the Progress Party has agreed on some important adjustments. Good results for the education sector have been reinforced: Distance learning means are secured. There will be a transitional scheme for the provision of health care for students. The Progress Party has given the government parties an emphasis on the need to fully finance the quality reform and also to take account of the remuneration and price compensation for universities in this respect. In response to the reply of the representative Voie, I would like to stress that we require ‘active work’ and ‘active action’. Those were the terms I used. The party has been informed by the government that all the construction projects in the higher education and higher education sectors and the way in which such construction projects are handled are now being submitted. The Party is looking for a more orderly treatment of the building projects, with greater predictability for the institutions. By means of a case of our own, we can ensure that in the future. We are also satisfied with extra money for ANSA, the eartag adviser, and for the Norwegian Academy of Teachers. In the light of both agreements, the Progress Party in this budget has chosen the following form of presentation: Our primary budget for the area of the Education Committee within the framework of the Progress Party's own draft budget in the Financial Committee is mentioned under the general section of the Committee's position. Here are principles, objectives, priorities and associated changes per. Chapter and post clearly presented but not promoted for voting. The Progress Party chooses to go straight to the subsidiary solution we have chosen through the Government Party Agreement in the area of the KUF. We are happy to accept a good result! In particular, the Party of Advancement is also associated with the government parties in a number of notes. These are comments which form part of the budgetary agreement and also some other comments. There are also some exceptions where the Progress Party marks policies together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Let me mention two of these. One thing I have touched on in a reply to the representative of the Right. Safety training for fishermen. I do not think the answer provides a reassuring clarification. I stress that for our part we are concerned that the system that has worked for many years, with a special course vessel, is being continued. The money is there, there is more to put in place again a new agreement that ensures the further operation of the ship that has been in use for many years. The second example I would like to mention concerns the coverage of tuition fees at Norwegian institutions. The party is concerned that the grant coverage of tuition fees by Norwegian institutions needs to be increased. However, full coverage abroad and under half coverage in Norway may lead to the withdrawal of the Norwegian educational institution. The entire Committee will review support systems for foreign studies, but the government parties have no concern about how to cover the tuition fee at Norwegian institutions. Compared to a net expenditure frame of approx. 31 billion kroner is the money move itself relatively modest. The negotiating framework for the KUF area of the Progress Party was significantly higher. In an agreement, both parties must adjust. Nevertheless, we are satisfied with the changes in priority areas and with the priority issues that have been brought about by the Progress Party. Together with the money move, we have also negotiated proposals and comments of an important system character. This is why the budget is overall good news for students and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14965	The Progress Party has a long introduction to the budgetary position in which it describes its option. I haven't calculated very carefully, but at least there is a commitment in the field of education of well over NOK 1 billion. Now they have entered into a budgetary agreement that becomes reality. Instead, I said in a line that I agree with those who believe that money is not everything. But at least in this round, the government parties have secured a budgetary partner where money is everything. In their alternative they write that they're going to have more to primary school and more to secondary school. The reality is that it is cut in several areas of the contract. They shall have more adult training — it shall be cut off from adult training in the contract. They will have more to go to universities – universities won't even get cost compensation for next year, and I won't include the situation in the local economy. The strangest thing is, however, that the Progress Party accepts recombination in the funding for studies, because the reality is that education support for students overall will be reduced next year. I believe that the Advance Party has made itself flat for the Government, they have made a political choice in which they have gained insight into other areas, such as tax relief and lower taxes on caravans and spirits, and then they have accepted the cuts in education. I believe that the Progress Party, no matter what kind of adventure they tell us about in their alternative, must take responsibility for the situation we get in School-Norway in the coming year. I just want a confirmation of the opinion of Mr Sortevik in his own press release that what we have now received is a good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14974	In relation to the alternative presented to the Workers' Party, where the replicator comes from, we will be absolutely satisfied with what is now the result of the majority. As I touched in a line to the representative from SV, who represents the same option, the visible money move is taking money from some students in private schools, who have been strangled for many years, and moving them into the SFO system – that is, a place to be for the student, but perhaps not so much a place to learn. We are satisfied with the directions we have been given through the agreement, and if the representative of the Workers' Party had heard after why we are satisfied with it, perhaps the question would be superfluous. We've got another $1 billion for refurbishment of schools. This year, too, the focus has been on the poor state of the building and indoor climate. We've doubled the frame to be used for remodeling schools. We've secured money for camp school stays, it's an activity that's going on in primary schools all over the country, we've been assured that the 60,000 students who are waiting to go to camp in 2003 can actually do it. As far as the grant scheme is concerned – I get to be quick at the end, because I see the seconds ticking – we have, as I said at point 3, put money back for the students, and so we have stopped this crazy and dramatic conversion of outlaw grant for high school students, who have a price tag of 300 million. kr, which was placed in the parents' wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14983	I actually want to start by giving praise to Arne Sortevik. I would like to commend him for now taking responsibility for the budget he has negotiated. I expect that he will gradually go out on the streets and fight and defend this budget, and that what we hear from the Progress Party in the future is that they have been involved in making a budget like what is available and with the cuts that are there. I expect that is what we shall hear from the Progress Party in the forthcoming debate when they go out on streets and fights. It's a good thing what Blackevik says, that we're taking from someone. We give private schools 13 pst. growth. It's not to take from anyone, it's to give them a big growth, but not as big as the Progress Party wants – this must be right. It is positively wrong that they ensure distance learning. It is true that it was not as bad as the government proposed, but it is still wrong. They cut adult education, quite a lot to adult training organisations, they cut ICT in school by five million. kr to finance half a million for ANSA. All of this is cut and has consequences for the school. It should also stand here defending the Progress Party, in the same way that they are going to go out on the streets and fight and defend it when that time comes. Then I get a little provoked by the view of learning that Søren Fredrik Voie and Arne Sortevik have. They're talking about a place to be, they're talking about welfare benefits when they're talking about SFO and some of those arrangements. What is their view of learning and knowledge? Isn't there something going on all over the place where children are gathered? It's not just in the lessons they learn, it's where they are together, where they have common solutions, where teachers and educators are with them. This is a learning venue. So my question to Sortevik is: Will he, on the basis of the agreement that has been made, defend this, and will this be the budget of the Progress Party for the education sector in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e14992	We in the Progress Party are going to be very clear that we are satisfied with the changes we have made in the negotiations and that it is through negotiations that we have come to a result that is better for students and students than before the Progress Party started negotiating. We're going to say that out loud and clear, and we're going to acknowledge that. That's also why we, as I said in my post, go straight to that agreement and the numbers that we've negotiated. We also need to be very clear that we have a different budget, which has been voted down by the Storting and which shows quite different priorities in the field of education than we have been given through negotiations. But I think that the big audience and the voters – and especially the parents, not to say the students – are actually able to grasp that message, and I understand that in the debate it is not all that you get, but that you can actually take some important and correct steps. What I can also assure the representative of Rikvam is that we should be very clear that we are continuing our fight for system change within the school, so that politicians like the representative Rikvam and others get the least influence in relation to which school parents and students choose, and as much influence as possible in controlling resources away from the schools that someone chooses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15001	Let me also express satisfaction with the constructive role played by the representative of Sortevik and the Progress Party in the work of the Committee – they have made reasonable contributions. And when the Progress Party is satisfied, it's good in a way. But the representative Blackevik said here that he would continue the fight for a system change in school. Then I would like to quote from the Special Note to the Advancement Party: ‘By accompanying the student to the school he/she wishes to use, unit-price financing, the schools will face a competitive situation which, in the view of these members, will lead to quality improvement throughout the school sector.’ Quality enhancement through competition appears to be the approach of the Progress Party. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that we get a quality boost through evaluation and guidance. Transparency shall provide realism and information to participants. In this way, a common basis for a quality-enhancing development process can be laid. Then it becomes a little wonder that the Progress Party chooses to go for a funding system that shifts the involvement and responsibility from those who are going to carry out the development work locally to the state. It'll be a cross of thought for me that the Progress Party in this way takes away the incentives from those who are going to be the driving force, and then put everything together in this room and thus drive a school-centralism. What does the Progress Party think should be the local responsibility for quality work? And does the Progress Party believe that rich power municipalities will not be able to spend more on schools than others if they want to give priority to them themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15016	The representative Lyngstad is probably right that we have a different view of this, and different beliefs on this issue. We are concerned that the role of the state should be the financing role. We are concerned that local politicians should have the least possible influence on the school money provided by the state, and at the same time we are concerned that the schools, no matter who owns it, should operate as autonomously as possible. We are committed to raising parents in self-governed schools in the driver's seat and giving them a completely different influence from what they have today, and it is finely small in the public monopoly school. We are concerned about system changes, because in our opinion we have to recognise that after many years with the same policies and policy solutions, when we are left with a mediocre school, almost in decline both learning and building, it is time to change systems and try out other solutions. We prescribe these solutions, among other things: through state school money to everyone, to the school that parents and students choose, and we also choose the solution that schools should be able to control themselves to the greatest extent possible. We believe that this will actually promote quality. We have different faiths there – I record that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15023	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15026	Education and competences are important for the quality of life, increased value creation, well-being and sustainable use of natural resources. The Christian People's Party believes that values, attitudes and knowledge are the key to solving future challenges. Knowledge, competence and creativity give us the security to master challenges and transitions in a society where changes are accelerating. Security in their own values and knowledge is necessary to understand the world around them and to form their own opinions. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the follow-up by the Government to the Sem Declaration in the field of education. The focus on quality and increased flexibility now leads to a critical review of the education system in order to facilitate the improvement of individual students and students. At the same time, the demand for quality leads to increased efforts and concentration in research. It has been important for the Christian People's Party to get a government budget in 2003 that can facilitate lower interest rates and secure jobs. I am pleased to note that the Norwegian Bank has today reduced interest rates by half a percent. We believe that the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party has helped to provide a good basis for the budget next year and economic development. Despite a tight budget framework, we have succeeded in following up the promises of increased efforts in universities and colleges. Together with significant increased funding for study funding, we can now implement the quality reform in higher education from the autumn of 2003. In the Christian People's Party, we recognise that this reform must also be followed up with resources in 2004. In the UH sector, we now have a great need for new buildings. New construction projects have been stopped for several years. I am pleased that in the budget agreement with the Progress Party there is agreement and majority in favour of a start-up grant for new buildings at the University of Eastfold, and I would like to ask the Council of State to now confirm that construction will start in 2003. The government proposed a conversion of the student funding for secondary school students. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is not desirable for high school students to take up student loans. Therefore, a conversion to a well-tested scholarship is right and desirable for distribution policy. This is how we can provide students from their homes with low incomes with free advanced education. This is how we fill the principle of equal rights to education with practical content. Another group that receives increased costs are students who have to move on to higher education. The current system of outreach grants has largely covered these costs. When the right to borrow disappears, it is important that the level of this grant, or the housing supplement, is not reduced by the conversion. I am therefore pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party has ensured this level and that the Storting has adopted this. Thus, equal rights to education can also be a reality for marginalisation that must dwell on shelter. The conversion and the decision to enlarge represent a significant improvement in the funding of higher education, and it has a very good social profile by helping those who have the least. It is alarming that the opposition will not be involved in such a conversion, nor will it take the money away from the scheme. In the Christian People's Party, we are also pleased that the budget agreement with the Progress Party continues the travel scholarship to students in Norway and the Nordic countries. This is important to promote student mobility in our own country, but also to increase student exchange with our Nordic neighbouring countries. The government’s draft budget – with the follow-up to the quality reform in higher education, a better funding for studies, increased funding for research, where private schools receive grants comparable to public schools and where quality promotion in primary and secondary education is focused – is now being endorsed by the Stortinget. Furthermore, during our work here in the United Kingdom, we have improved the budget in terms of funding studies and cultural schools, and corrected some minor imbalances for private schools and colleges. The government's church budget is also endorsed with a clear indication that baptism training is important for the future of the church. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that a joint committee will provide the Church's resource center against violence and sexual abuse with its own contribution to the state budget. In a difficult economic situation requiring a tight government budget, the Christian People's Party is pleased that we can now adopt a budget that is set on quality in education. Quality also means focusing on the value of the school. Here our Christian, humanistic cultural heritage is central, with a positive and absolute human dignity. This means respect for the individual student, training based on the student's assumptions, cooperation with the home on education and training, and a safe school environment with tolerance and cooperation. An assessment of the work of schools must include this. Only then can we say something about the quality of our education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15049	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15053	If we are to believe what the media has written in the last few days, the Christian People's Party has conducted a lot of self-search lately, after very poor polls. I would like to welcome the Christian People's Party to the club. The working party has, as you know, been doing the same exercise over time now. So to my question, the government party Christian People's Party has signaled that they now want to go back to their roots, with their marriage and their family in the center. If you're going to start looking at the education budget and try to make some connections, I find it very difficult to see that these attitudes are now reflected in the budget for the education sector. The main reason for this is the most conscious cut made by the government in the school leisure program, a cut of 217 million. kr. The school leisure system provides security for our children and for us as parents. However, it is also an important offer for many single-parents who are totally dependent on the school leisure system in order to go to work. According to the Progress Party, the school leisure system is only childcare. My question is whether the Christian People's Party believes that the SFO is not the arena for positive learning. Is it true that the Christian People’s Party agrees with this view? Will we now, over the next three years, see a trend in the school leisure system, which may mean that it will disappear completely? Then the question is: where should the children who are now being hit by the cut-off in the school leisure system be? Is it back to the key children's Christian People's Party wanting?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15062	Self-search can definitely be in place sometimes, only it doesn't go over to self-spinning. It's important to understand the proportions of those processes. To go to their roots I think I'm necessary and right to do. In the Christian People's Party, we absolutely want to focus on a school policy that has quality and education as key concepts in school everyday life. It also means that we need to focus on the processes that give these learning effects. It's also important that we run the resources into those processes. Here I think we can still have a lot to learn. I think we still have a great potential for improvement in those processes. So it's right that it's cut 217 million. kr on the school leisure scheme. It is made up of the need for a tight budget. At the same time, I must also say that when the school leave system came, the reason for that offer was primarily the development of working life – it was necessary to get a supervisory offer for 6-year-olds, so as to avoid key children. That was the argument. That argument is still valid. Now, what happens through the cut is that the excess of the parents is increased by 150 dollars a month. There are also opportunities for municipalities to introduce income-dependent graduation rates on the SFO offer, which means that the worst-sponsored municipalities do not have to get out the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15071	Quality and education are key concepts in school also for Christian People's Party. We heard the representative Lyngstad now confirm that. This applies well when schools are both public and private. The Christian People's Party has always stood out as a champion of the right to set up private schools, preferably with a Christian view of life. With regard to the principle of an equivalent economic system for public and private education, the Christian People's Party actually has a more negative view. I would briefly like to point out that the Christian People's Party has so far voted against all the attempts of the Progress Party to obtain equivalent financial relationships between public and private education, so that students can make choices based on quality, without having to make any financial difference. In the budget setting, the Progress Party has largely found solutions with the government parties, but in terms of something as simple as assessing grant and loan options to cover the tuition fee of foreign and Norwegian private institutions, the government parties will not be involved. Would the representative of Lyngstad please explain why the Christian People's Party cannot join a very small desire to ask the Ministry to assess whether the amount of the loan set aside to cover the tuition fee in this round should be increased for students at Norwegian institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15080	When the Christian People's Party has been an avid champion of parents' right to start their own schools, it has built up the view that it is the parents' responsibility to raise children and train children, and that the school should help their parents in it. From that point of view, we have been clear that private school law must be based on this parental principle. We have also been keen champions of a comparable system of costs for public and private schools. That's why we're happy that we've now developed a KOSTRA system that allows us to get comparable numbers. It is surprising in this debate to note that the opposition will not accept the reality description used by the KOSTRA figures, which is based on accounts figures from the local government sector, and which therefore also tells what is used by municipalities in their schools. The boarding schools have a legal right of 85 pst. of what is used in the public sector. When the opposition refuses to accept that description of reality, I wonder what description of reality it is then that must be taken into account. The representative Evje challenged me a little about the tuition fee in Norway and public funding. To say that schools like this are talking about in Norway, among other things. BI, also receives government grants for the operation of the institution. Then we have to decide whether we are going to run double funding, or whether a government grant is going to finance the institution completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15089	The debate has shown that there is a clear distinction between the Progress Party and the rest of the parties in terms of the view on learning. I'm a little uncertain about where we're going to place the Right, after hearing Søren Fredrik Voie a lot times. However, I choose to say that they are not in the view of the Progress Party in relation to learning and knowledge and how to organise our school. Therefore, I would like to ask Arne Lyngstad a question, which is then with the other parties and forms the majority of the education policy: I agree with Arne Lyngstad and support the view expressed by Arne Sortevik in terms of funding public school and political responsibility in relation to education and school, that is. that the state should take a certain number of dollars in the pockets of the parents, and then the politicians should stay away? That was in many ways in the short version of what he said. Is this a vision supported by the Christian People’s Party? Now we're on basic principles, and I'm assuming that the Christian People's Party also chooses its friends from basic principles, so it's a little bit important that he settles this. In the same sling, I can draw up what has been said several times by Søren Fredrik Voie, that what has to do with the school leisure system is well-being. So there's a view of learning that is so that learning is going on for six hours during a school day, and what's going on outside is not learning. Is this a vision shared by the Christian People's Party? Is this a view that they also have in terms of education, training, socialisation and all that is an important part of the project education and school? It's important that the Christian People's Party tries to make up an opinion about which bedmates they really want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15098	It's important to know which bedmates you want, but it's also important to be faithful when you've chosen. It may be a challenge in many situations, but you're the world where teaching is such a process! Then there is also something about moving forward towards common goals, common tasks and common challenges. When it comes to learning, it's clear that learning is taking place where children and adults are together. There were questions about the SFO. It is clear that this offer is not mandatory. It is a voluntary offer and therefore cannot be said to be part of the school offer. The Christian People's Party has been clear that there is a distinction between a compulsory school and a voluntary SFO offer. This does not mean that the content of the SFO offer does not matter. We would like to draw the volunteer organisations' activities into this. Cultural school activities could be part of this. But when it's a voluntary offer, I think it's natural that it's a certain proportion. Going for a free SFO offer is a wrong principle based on such thinking. SFO has a double function. It solves the child’s need for supervision, and it facilitates a safe play environment. But it's not part of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15107	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15110	I want to use these minutes to emphasize that the challenge in primary school is actually to teach the individual student, where the student is to develop his or her skills in line with his or her assumptions. I think it is every mother and father's desire for her child that the school should take the child's assumptions seriously whether the child has been able to learn or difficult to learn. And this is the idea of the single school: adapted training – not that all children should have the same education or learn the same thing. My question is, is this possible in today's school? Is it possible to provide adapted training when the classes increase, when the number of splitting hours is cut over a low shoe? I understand the government parties there that they think there is enough resources in public school. The Minister of Education has also said that on several occasions, and the State budget confirms it. The expectations of the school are high. The economic situation in our country is characterised by private wealth and municipal poverty. Despite this, the government is adding up to a private growth of 3.5 pst., while the growth in public consumption is estimated to increase by 0.5 pst. I'm beginning to realize that this is a desirable development on the part of the Government, and believe that more parents over time will choose private solutions over the public school. Private schools, we've heard, according to the government's budget, will be matched by a growth of 34 pst. Around the country, public school budgets are being reduced as a result of municipal poverty. Such a development does not want the Centre Party. We're actually going to bet on public school. We want parents to be sure that their children receive appropriate training. It does not happen under the right-hand-dominated school policy provided by the Co-operation Government. The School Leisure Scheme has been mentioned as a joint project and a public responsibility. Here's the government 217 million. kr. It involves reduced offers and higher parental pay. Internship grants for high school students are verbally in place again, but the money is missing. The travel allowance has been returned, but with 20 pst. less than the real cost of 83 million. kr. And the budget decision on a review of the grant scheme says something about the future of high school students — a review of the grant scheme with a view to greater success security. In other words, it means testing needs. And it really doesn't surprise me that it was just going to go well one year before the Christian People's Party and the rest of the budget buddies were to leave the goal. I actually thought we were all together about free advanced education as a goal. The reduction of universal arrangements and the strengthening of the private economy are the philosophy of this government. The center party will do it differently. We will give school owners, municipalities and county councils the opportunity to invest in public schools, so that the objectives of the curriculum on adapted training become real. We will work for free teaching material in high school. We want to expand the music and culture schools, so that there will be an offer that everyone can participate in. So a few words about the Church. The local economy has a particularly strong impact on the Church, because they have few employees and a small local organisation. A Christian People's Party politician in Brønnøy suggests to save money that the relatives should dig the graves sail. It says to read in the online newspaper on December 5. Several church positions with local funding are not actually announced now because the municipalities cannot afford that part. And Bishop Larsen says, ‘Now we see that poor municipal economy is about to take the Church from the people most. It is difficult to understand for churchgoers in one of the richest countries in the world.’ Politics is about choices, and the government has chosen to strengthen the private economy. The centre party chooses to strengthen the community and the Community goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15134	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15137	On the day of 6 December, it is to be read that the representative, Mr Schjellaa, describes the budgetary cooperation that the opposition stands for as a historic milestone. That it's a historic milestone, we can agree, but to boast that the Center Party has now ended up in the pocket of the Workers' Party and SV, is hardly anything the Center Party should do. On the contrary. At the annual meeting of the Centerpartiet in Finnmark last year, it was said that the Centerpartiet should become more bourgeois. What you do here in the Storting is the opposite of going the other way. So until the theme we actually have up today in terms of education. I also record that the Center Party and this so-called opposition are addressing problems and challenges, but forgetting the most fundamental. We know that one in five students can't read and write properly, we know that international studies show that Norway doesn't do as well as we should. So my question is, what are the Central Party alternatives, what are the Center Party solutions? More money is being talked about. You also know that more money doesn't necessarily solve the problem. Finally. In view of this coalition of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, I would like to ask the representative Schjälaa: Does he agree with Rolf Rikvam that those who choose private solutions have to pay 100 pst. of the cost itself? And does the representative of the Kärlaa agree with the representative of Rikvam that what the opposition delivers is a puzzled budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15146	The representative Robertsen must know that the Central Party is actually supporting private schools and that the Private School Act is good. We want it to be an alternative to Norwegian school. So it's completely solid. We also believe that the state should provide funding. We do not share the view – if it is the view of the representative of Rikham – that parents must pay 100 pst. sail. I do not agree with Mr Reikvam on this. I think that what Robertsen's representative says is a huge challenge compared to one in five being functional illiterates when they leave school. If the representative Robertsen had listened to some of what I said in my post, he would have heard that I said adapted training is one of the most important things in the curriculum. I don't think any teacher can run customized training in a class of 28 students. It's actually an impossibility. When we experience that the municipalities around have to cut split hours because the school budgets have to be reduced, we will never reach the goal that everyone should learn to calculate, read and write enough to do it on their own. But that's the policy the government here adds up to -- larger classes, fewer sharing hours. That's what's real out there in Municipality-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15154	The Christian People's Party has been working with the Center Party to get to a good public school. We've also been with the Center Party when it came to getting good health care. Among other things, in the last period we were together on a law amendment of the private school law, which was necessary in a certain context. But this also applies to the allocation. I also read in the day that the Center Party is now very pleased to be with the Workers' Party and SV in what is thus described as a historic milestone. It's just like the Center Party says, that they're finally located where they belong. But then I read on, and it says that a government alternative without a Christian People's Party has no faith in the representative of the Kärlaa. It is disappointing to him that the Christian People’s Party is very pleased and comfortable with the government we have today. I am pleased with a government that has now taken a new approach to the boarding schools, namely by calculating resource use on the basis of COSTRA. The Christian People's Party wants a good public school. What's calculated for colleges depends on what we grant to the public school. We want to focus heavily on quality development and the flexibility of the local school, including public school. But why doesn't the Central Party want a fair system that follows the private school law? Many questions have been sent both from the Centre Party, from the Workers' Party and from the Swedish Labour Party to the Ministry in connection with the State budget as well. have gone into this area and they have repeatedly received the same response: it is referred to that estimates are based on actual resource use in public schools in 2001 and are given as a share of the average cost. In other words, more to private schools depends on more being given to public schools. Why doesn't the Central Party want a fair distribution to the private schools from KOSTRA?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15165	I am surprised that the representative Scarbøvik does not comment on the fact that the increase to private schools is as formidable as it actually is, at 453 million. kr — nearly half a billion dollars. When we were going to snoop in our budget, we chose to do the addition to private schools less. We took 285 million. Of these 453 million kroner. kr. That means it's about $170 million. kr, which amounts to 13-14 pst. increase in private schools. In fact, we think that was enough within the framework set by the government parties and the Progress Party. We think it should be a fair distribution in the future, but that one should take all of this in one jaf, as the representative of the Christian People's Party here says and as the Government has put it up to, we won't be on. In addition, I think it is quite incredible that the representative Scarbøvik can be so pleased when she feels that the school in which she sailed worked before she entered the Stortinget, actually gets worse and worse economy, that they have to cut in split hours, etc. Is this something that the Christian People's Party is very pleased with, when she is so pleased with what the Government delivers on the educational side? We disagree with SV, and we disagree with the Working Party in some areas. When we say it's historical and the journalist writes it, it's because we've been able to show that there's actually an alternative on the Stortinge today to the government's policy. And that's historically when one in certain contexts kind of later that it isn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15174	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15177	It's an exciting time for school policy as we're in now. I think it's the most exciting time since I started this, which I think was when I was elected to the Seventh Class Cooperation Committee. We have had a number of major reforms run by social democracy that go from top to bottom, but now I feel that we are really starting on reforms that are released from below so that we might get a new big school reform that starts from below and goes up. There is a lot of good going on in this budget as well. In the university and higher education sectors, we have got to the start of the quality reform, which we are proud of. It has been said earlier in the debate that not everyone is very satisfied. But then I can tell that I was at the open meeting of the University of Oslo where the beginning of this reform was marked, and after the state council had gone, they admitted that the quality reform was very good, but that they always needed to murmur a little if the council was nearby. We've got a hard stake in research that we in the Left are very pleased with, especially focused on basic research, which we think is very important, both from an ideological point of view and from a nutritional point of view, but it's also important that we have a large share of basic research. I think the challenge on the university and college sides is probably clearly on construction, and I feel that the majority of the committee has taken it inwards. If we just take Oslo, it's computer science building at the University of Oslo, it's the Academy of Music, it's the Academy of Arts, and there's formidable challenges at the School of Agriculture, just to mention some of the big construction projects that lie there. And that we have to find structures for this, I think I'm clear. In primary school, we've got a focus on quality. We in the Left have had the slogan «Let go of school free». I believe, as social liberals, that we need to focus more on the good school related to the good teacher, that we need to put the student in the center and find new ways to work, and that we need to get school politicians who actually dare to question all the given truths in school, and that we are now actually afraid to rock by given truths, such as the truth. the class concept. On the church side we see in the left it is important to underline the role of the Oslo cathedral. It's a small note, but when the minister of the church sits here, I think it's important to mention it. After all, we have almost only Nidarosdom as a national matter, but I think it is important to stress that Oslo Cathedral is actually the arena of all the important acts on the national side – so to speak, everyone, and that it is important that that church gets the position it deserves. Then in the Left we look forward very much to the message that comes with regard to music and culture schools. We hope that the government will make an overall picture in this area, that one can not only think about how to develop one school, one way to organize things, but that one can actually see the whole of the offer given to children today, both through private and public schools, and that we get a new idea about children and culture. Education policy is not just math and Norwegian. I think we get very little creativity if we don't have the creative subjects and look at the creative skills that students have, as part of the whole. I'm very happy that the developmental resources came into place, and that we see this in a whole way up to college level. So I'm very happy that we got up the Barrat Dues Music Institute's base level of 1 million. kr. So a little comment at the end about camp schools, where I think you've gotten into a disaster. The disaster was foreseen by many of the then state councillors Giske in the election campaign and told them that camp schools were now free of charge. Now the Workers' Party writes in the notes: «These members believe that 60 million. crowns are not sufficient to cover the loss of the previous parental payment.» I guess some of us said in the past that we have a challenge in getting this done in a proper way, so we get a good camp school that's also adapted to local circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15204	A few days ago, Aetat presented its monthly report on unemployment. They could then tell that the unemployment rate had increased by 21 pst. last year. In Oslo, unemployment is highest among asylum seekers and immigrants. It would suggest that there is a need to step up efforts towards these groups. So here's what I want to talk about - Norwegian training for asylum seekers. One thing is that the budget buddies remove the supplement to Norwegian asylum seekers training. But I am stunned when I read in the budget setting on page 39, where the plurality, which consists of the government party, the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, asks the Department ‘stimulate that several asylum seekers with granted residence receive Norwegian training at their place of work’. Here, the multiples are just as good as 10 million. kr. My question to the representative of Skei Grande will then be: How does the Left see that the ministry can stimulate this? And how can the left defend that one should save a whole $10 million. Have you seen the effect of such incentives at all? Is it just thinking about a number, or is it such that the representative Skei Grande can prove that it will be such a saving? So finally, a little comment on what the representative took up around the camp balls. Yes, it is true that the Workers' Party is aware that the clay spherical offer should be free of charge and that this hall should allow the funds necessary for it to be free of charge. But the majority certainly have an economic framework for the budget area, so in this round it wasn't easy to cover up completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15213	We in the Left are very concerned with integration. We may find that much of the focus in the debate has been on who should come here and who should not come here. What we think it is important to focus on now are those who are going to be here, and how we are going to get a good integration policy. That's why we have to bet on those who are going to be here. We have now created packages of programs for those who are to be integrated into our society that are good in both language, society and culture. I visited the asylum reception in Alta a while back. They cut this offer almost a year ago because they noticed that asylum seekers were not satisfied with it either. They introduced other working methods, trying to make those on the reception centre more active in the community. And that programme actually made them learn more Norwegian, that they became more integrated, and that there were smaller problems associated with the asylum recipient. So this is a black-and-white picture, I think it's wrong. So to that attempt where we've cut. That's absolutely right, and we stand for that, because we thought it was stupid to spend money trying to do something that we know works. It's just to get started. Norwegian workplace-related education, we know, we don't have to spend millions of dollars on finding out. My final comment on camp school was not related to the framework. It was just a small heart attack from a former school bureau that stood and told the State Council of the Workers’ Party that there was not enough money. Then it goes two years, and then the party admits that it was probably not as much money as it was when you were running election campaigns.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15224	Integration policies are important. Firstly, the Government and the Advance Party propose to cut all Norwegian training for asylum seekers from 1 January 2003. We are strongly opposed to this. Life on asylum reception is not easy. There is no simple situation, and waiting time may be very long for those waiting for a decision. In order to integrate into our society and live and live in the waiting period, Norwegian and social skills are necessary. The proposal to cut Norwegian training for adult asylum seekers is therefore a major step backwards. But it's not just that. In addition, the government parties join forces with the Progress Party in the Committee 10 million. NOK for those who have been granted a residence. I don't think this is going to happen, not even at a little bit. There is a short-term and very harmful savings policy, as well as increasing the need for mental health protection for those living in reception. And it goes against the objective that more municipalities should accept refugees, because the costs of integration will be transferred to the municipalities to a greater extent. My question to Trine Skei Grande is: how can it be thought that this integration policy is logical?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15233	It is possible that the line was written before I kept the post, or I must have expressed myself very clumsy in the previous reply. What I fully agree with the representative is that waiting time is long when you are in the reception. Our goal is that the waiting time should not be so long and that we should get a shorter treatment. We've been able to do that. But then my question is, when you travel around asylum recipients, as I've done a lot, and you see that the only activity that happens that day is the Norwegian course, why are there so many asylum seekers who don't even meet up with it? Perhaps you learn more Norwegian by being active in the community you live in than by sitting in a basement room in the asylum room with a Norwegian teacher? I don't think this picture is as black and white as SV does. What's important to us is that the integration programs that are connect business. I think you can learn as much Norwegian by working with Norwegians as you can in a dark basement room. So a little comment in the end: cutting in the offer of those who might not be here, I don't think I'm that dangerous in terms of cutting in the offer of the kids who are here, like. SV did in the last year's budget to get their goals to stick together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15246	I record that Trine Skei Grande has been to the University of Oslo and has been informed that it is a good funding that has been provided. I take note of that, that the University believes. We've got other signals. But I record – and I assume that we can then use it in the further discussion – that the University of Oslo expresses satisfaction with the resources put into this budget, that is. that the compensation they've at least been concerned with in relation to us, they're obviously not so busy anymore. Then I have two questions for Trine Skei Grande. She shows that there has been a good budget in relation to the municipalities and in relation to the public education system. I looked at the Dayrevy yesterday, where one of the Left's party teams was in revolt. They were about to sign out because this was no longer going around the municipalities. They didn't get the budget to hang together. It went beyond school, and they thought they could no longer run the public sector and the education sector. And their reaction was to sign out. Does that mean that the opinion that the Left has centralized is significantly different from that of the party teams outside, or did this item relate to an individual party team that experienced it in this way? So a question that goes into the view of learning: I've tried several times to get a debate going on about the view of learning. We've been served the vision of the Progress Party, we've been served something from the Right, which I'm not going to repeat, and I have a question for Arne Lyngstad about what is learning, what is formation, and when it happens. Do the Left share the view that the Progress Party has expressed, that politicians and others should stay away, this is a matter for parents, and the public's job is to take some money down their pockets, so they can buy themselves a place? That was the short version of Arne Sortevik's scheme. I want a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15255	There were three rather comprehensive questions. I'm going to spend most of my time on this last one. First of all, I think that if universities had got more money, they would probably have found a good purpose to spend it on. And they probably also have a wish list that's longer. I observe that they were satisfied with the beginning. In the case of Gaul left’s municipal government representative, it was – at least in the morning’s broadcast on the day – the agricultural policy that was the argument for resigning, and then it came a little more than the day. I don't want to go into the fact that there are some members who may feel they don't fit in, but they might be right about it. So in terms of learning, I'm just as opposed to the Progress Party's view of price financing as I'm against SV's view of minimum standards. I think it's pretty much the same thing. It's about power being here, and reason being in this room, while I have good faith in the power of local governments in relation to local politics. And I have a lot more faith in teachers, principals, parents and students. I want to release the school from below. What the Left wants in school policy is to release the school, to release it from below, to release some of the state regulations. What I have said is that there is a circular from the KUF that describes what a food package should contain. And I'm sure we'll be able to figure that out. I think the challenge is to get rid of local organisation, release some more differences locally, and that's the challenge for the school. Making price finance or minimum standards is something that it's nice to do in this room, but I don't think it necessarily brings us to good school policy. Good school policy is created with good local solutions, with wise teachers able to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15267	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15270	Never has any government a larger bag of money at its disposal. Nevertheless, we experience extensive cuts in, for example, school free time arrangements, adult training, elephant outpatient grants, student travel grants and Norwegian asylum seekers training, and neither students nor universities received cost adjustments for the following year. Education loses in the fight against tax havens. Of course, the working party must stick to the limits adopted for the budgetary area. That means that we don't have the ability to re-introduce the reductions that the multiple goes for. Nevertheless, I would say that I am pleased with the cooperation that the Labour Party has had with the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in this budgetary position. A few comments on higher education and research: the university and higher education sectors face major challenges in the next few years when it comes to implementing the quality reform. Institutions must secure funds for this next year, and I expect additional funds to be set aside in the 2004 budget, because it is unfortunate that universities do not receive compensation for actual wage and price increases for the next year, as they do. And it is difficult to follow the quality reform in a good way if it has not been implemented. I am pleased that the operating resources of the Centre for the Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities in Norway are being secured, although I think it had been more tidy with a promise proposed by the Labour Party and the minority than a call to withdraw from the budget of the University of Oslo. In the event of redisposal, the Government Party and the Advance Party have removed part of the support for the Student heelsetenesta in Bergen, Oslo and Trondheim. This will lead to a poorer health supply for the students. The working party is strongly critical that cuts are made without an evaluation being carried out in advance, and we are disappointed that the majority will not have such an evaluation when they want to dismantle the system. Government universities have a specific task in terms of development of competences and regional research and development. Some higher education institutions, such as Hedmark and Telemark, have been particularly poor in the new funding system of the 2003 allocation, and this will result in large income reductions. I ask that the Government assess the situation and ensure that the action is not forced to be unreasonably hard on the two pillars. The government has not proposed starting permissions for new buildings in the university and higher education sectors for 2003. We in the Labour Party are concerned that this has been a balancing item, while the need to build is great. Now there have been a number in Stortinget to allow for a new high school building in Eastfold. I heard that the representative Lyngstad was very happy about that. I wonder why the Government did not propose this in its draft budget. But from the Workers' Party's side, we wanted to get started with additional start-ups, to both the Stavanger High School and what to do at Nesna, further design and co-location and construction at other high schools and universities. But when I see Norman's play today turning university buildings into AS, I'm wondering what kind of relationship it has with the missing promises. The Labour Party, and a plurality in the Stortinget, would ensure a significant improvement in the study funding in the previous budget, and we got several votes for that, against the government parties. Students would be better able to study on a full-time basis, and so we would follow the intention of the Quality Reform. The government in the budget has wanted a rematch by creating a cut that will reduce improvements. It has been proposed to cut travel expenses, to close down the main professional credits, to increase the Loan Fund fee and not to adjust the price of the study grants for the 2003–2004 academic year. Regrettably, the government has had a partial impact on the rematch at the Progress Party, even if the travel agent is now partially reinstated. The students' educational support is reduced anyway. The government proposed a new support scheme for the elephants in further education by removing the ability to borrow, but introducing a strongly tested out-of-office grant. From the Labour Party's side, we believe that this would make it harder for many parents to finance further training for their children. Especially will it affect young people in the districts. Fortunately, the government party came to a better conclusion here, and some of the change has been corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15296	In a tight budget where the overall target is interest rate decline and lower dollar rates to secure jobs in export-oriented industries, the budget we are dealing with today is actually a winner. There is evidence of considerable ability and willingness to invest in education and research. The draft budget shows that it is possible to combine lower taxes with better schools. The budget is an increased commitment to education and competence. The semi-declaration is followed up by a focus on better quality and increased flexibility. Quality developments in primary schools are followed up by 380 million. kr. Quality reform in higher education is being followed up. The appropriations provide «an adequate basis for implementing the quality reform from the next autumn», the Council of Universities and Higher Education states in a press release dated 7 October. The 2004 budget follow-up requirement is followed up in the majority opinion of the government parties and the Progress Party in the vote. Research efforts have increased more than in any previous budget. These main elements of the budget demonstrate the willingness and ability of the Government and Government parties to invest in education and research. I'd like to draw some points out. Cape. 240, Private schools, show a significant increase, an increase necessary to stay within the legal framework, in relation to the number of private schools and the number of pupils in them. In addition to an increase in the number, there can be no doubt that new COSTRA figures show a previous under-budget on this chapter. It is remarkable that, by reducing this chapter openly, the minority shows that they do not want to fulfil the obligations of the State. The minority commits too little resources to comply with the provisions of the grant scheme. The Committee reiterates its concern about the promised communication on cultural schools. This message has been wanted for a while, and I am very pleased with the clear commitment that has come, that the message can be expected in the spring of 2003. This will be an important message, where the Stortinget can have a good discussion about the places and tasks of cultural schools. It is also gratifying that a joint committee wishes to maintain the grant for the development of the music and cultural schools. I would also like to stress the unanimous observation that these funds are transferred directly to the Norwegian Council of Culture Schools and not, as they are now, via the Director of Education in the South-Trøndelag. The majority of the Committee would like the Government to return to the United Kingdom with a broad review of the place of special education in Norwegian schools, including the organisation and activities of the State special educational support system. Substantial amounts are used for special school education and a broad review is needed. I also refer to the position of the Sunna Committee, which should be followed up, while the organisation of the support system works for me – to say something diplomatic – little tidy. I am also very pleased with the unanimous comitology on the earmarking of funds for the Archives Foundation in Kristiansand and the wish for a separate budget line for the Archives in 2004. We're going to add up to 2.2 million. SEK in grants for 2003. That gives predictability, and that's good. So I'd like to say a little bit about some church chapters. As rapporteur of the case. 342, Nidaro's cathedral, I would like to refer to the majority comment on the plans for new buildings on the north side of the West Front Square. This is a service building that should be in place for the coronation anniversary in 2006. I had hoped that this could have been a comitology comment, but I noticed that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre could not be present. Nevertheless, this is a majority comment which I hope the Council of State will follow up. Let me finally express the joy that the budget of 5 million. kr until baptismal training is established. Last year there was a proposal of 2 million. deleted by the then majority. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee is now ensuring that the five million survive the budgetary procedure. It promises well for the treatment of the notification of baptismal education, which Stortinget will receive for treatment in February next year. I am also very pleased that the Workers' Party has not followed up what is stated in their opening remarks, namely that this allocation should not come until the baptism message has been processed. All in all, this is a good budget for education, research and church. The right is satisfied that the majority mainly supports the Government's draft budget, with the small but important improvements that have been made to the Committee. I note that the divergent proposals that exist from the minority are small pro-miles. The will for major changes may have been present, but the ability and creativity have been worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15319	There are several factors that make it impossible for us in the Progress Party to cry out in favour of the Government's visions and objectives, as they are described in the budget. But there's a lot of things we're happy with. An appeal is that the Progress Party wants equivalent economic conditions between public and private education in all fields. I'm afraid we won't. In our view, this must be done either through the grant schemes or through grants that cover actual expenditure. None of the parts seem to be possible to get to right now. The first wish of the Progress Party would be to change the grant rates and allow the money to follow the individual student or student, regardless of the place of study. This model would show respect for students' choices and that students can be held responsible for conducting their own studies. The quality reform to which this is linked will cost a lot of money. That's something all the parties had to be aware of. It is not free to have students who will conduct the studies according to the old model while new students from the autumn of 2003 will study according to a new model. Two parallel runs with closer follow-up of the individual student at all faculties and departments must cost money. The government has listened and everywhere claimed that large sums have been allocated for implementation. But if this is true, when it is deliberately underbudgeted in relation to both non-wage and price compensation – which for universities alone accounts for approx. 150 million. kr – and no annual regulation of the cost standards of the students is made? These two conditions alone amount to more than 300 million. of the full financing to be used. In its priorities, the Progress Party has assessed wage and price compensation to universities, with increased proposals for allocations of 150 million. kr, just in order to be able to demand that the results as we wish come without excuses for non-financing. Research is important for the Progress Party. In order to achieve the target of the average OECD level, it is necessary to increase the Fund much faster than the annual majority. There is little help in raising fund capital by a couple of billion dollars a year, when OECD countries increase their allocations in relation to GDP faster than we do. Using the increase in the reorganization of the drugs, such as alibi, is going to be wrong. The increase in fund capital only maintains a return equivalent to the research's share of the funds over time. The capital of the Fund must therefore be increased dramatically in order to achieve the objective adopted by a unanimous increase in the previous period. The rate of return must also be used for research by private institutions with the necessary quality. It is amazing that there is not a majority for all institutions to have equal opportunities to receive research funding, assessed in terms of quality and regardless of who owns the institution. Ownership is, as is well known, not synonymous with high quality, not even in Norway. We are aware that a new allocation system for research funding to public institutions is being developed. The progress party sees it as a premise that the private become part of the system, on equal terms. This must apply to both educational and research funding and post-doc positions. The equivalent principle based on quality must also apply in relation to the framework of the Research Council. In the case of private higher education institutions, the Progress Party will have an end to the oscillation process carried out by the Ministry taking studies out and out of the funding model. We see this as purely economic balancing, because it is not linked to assessments of the quality of the studies that are being removed. As the model is now, supported studies will be specified and an overview of what is included in the basis of the educational component. This at best appears to be a sementing of yesterday's study offerings at the private institutions. It has nothing to do with high quality in the future, rather a lack of willingness to realize that the ideology that has led up to now no longer meets international qualitative objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15336	When SV says children and young people first, we don't joke. We don't fool people. It's not just beautiful words and beautiful expressions, but we're actually betting at primary school, where the students are going to learn, take in knowledge and participate in shaping society. It is essential to invest in education and research to make Norway a leading knowledge nation — the most important one in combating class divisions and creating greater justice. What is really needed now is a huge investment in public high school, where children from different backgrounds come together. That is what will create tolerance and community, in a society that is becoming increasingly fragmented and diverse. SV has spent NOK 12 billion more on its alternative budget to the municipalities. We have spent a lot more money on SFO, and we have spent money on camp schools. As the government fraction, along with the Advance Party, we have earmarked the grant. But the funds put in are too small. In addition, if they were transferred and brought back the money from the framework grant to earmarking, it would disappear millions along the way. The government parties, together with the Advance Party, have increased grants to private schools by almost 35 pst. in the year’s budget – an increase of 465 million. kr. In reality, it means an increase of approximately NOK 20 000 per person. students in private schools. At the same time, the government parties, together with the Progress Party, have not found room for a better economic situation for the public schools, over 98 pst. by our children go, but on the contrary cut. The rank of public school is a political priority. This budget steals from public schools and gives to private schools. This is simply unfair. The reality is that the government parties together with the Advance Party are throwing money after the private schools – a solid gift package for 1.8 pst. of the children, while the remaining students experience cut, cut and cut. Reality is intersections of about 10 pst. in municipal budgets, which again go out of school. The reality is that district schools are laid down in rafts, pools are closed, libraries are laid down. Half of our primary schools do not have a good enough indoor climate, do not have ICT or library. This budget weakens the libraries. Among other things, the Bible buses have entered the budget as a new point, while the libraries and mailboxes across the country are being laid down. This is galimatias. It is not surprising that the parents act, send the protests to the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party! You're changing the whole school structure. The claim is a better school by spending less money. It's impossible. It is only the government parties and the Progress Party who believe it. The reality is a different one. Never have we seen such a large-scale closure of district schools, and it also means longer travel. It is a violation of the policy that has been pursued in the past: that students are entitled to a school in their community and that the school is for the children. This by increasing support for private schools is not about laws and regulations, as one wants to make it; it is about a political priority. It's the Storting that regulates the rules. It is we who decide that half of the schools are ready to fall and do not meet the demands of a good indoor environment. That's where you break the law. This is also done when students do not receive the swim instruction they are entitled to. The government also provides a solid cut in the school leisure system, a halving of the funding for the school leisure system. That would mean an increase in the parental payment of several hundred dollars per. children in SFO. That Christian People's Party can participate in something like that! Is this a good family policy? This is progress party policy. The Progress Party says, among other things: that the SFO is not a public task, it is the responsibility of parents to care for their children. We are committed to improving quality and putting a ceiling on parental pay, so that everyone can have the opportunity to have their children in the school leisure system. The active substance scheme for North Norway has been removed with a pen swab. There have been arrangements from the 1800s for those schools that needed it. They are important for recruiting teachers to the schools that are struggling to obtain qualified teachers, necessary to ensure equal rights to education throughout Norway. Another twist in school policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15355	In the Church area, in the 2003 draft state budget, the Government has had a clear priority, i.e. the baptismal training in Kirkja. For 2003, a special 5 million pledge has been proposed. kr to strengthen training among the people who have died. I am very happy that this proposal this time also survives here in Stortinget – it looks like. It's natural for me in this context to show the big message Trustraining in a new time – About the reform of the baptismal training in the Norwegian Church, as the Government presented two months ago. In the message, plans and measures for a systematic bet and expansion of the doping training were presented. I look forward with excitement to the handling in Stortingen of this matter, which is a big deal. I see the shopping message as an important value message. Training in Christian faith and tradition is about passing on – to new generations – the identity, the culture and the values that have shaped our country and people over a thousand years. Norway is also known as a more and more multicultural country, with many religions. Then it's important to be safe on your own culture and to be faithful to new ones. It also creates smaller conflicts. I also believe that a systematic strengthening of baptismal training is about keeping up with and developing the Norwegian Church as a people's church. The budgetary implications of this matter are not topics today, but an increase of 5 million. kr to strengthen the baptismal training in 2003 is a signal about the Government’s willingness to prioritize this field. The 2003 church budget has incorporated the budgetary implications of the state taking over the responsibility for the travel expenses of the pastors. This is a consequence of a change in church law that was handled by the Storting earlier this year. The current conversion means that the state is given an extended governance responsibility for the services. I see this as important from a governance perspective and in relation to the work that is now being done on how the service is organised. Systematic tests for the reorganization of services shall be evaluated in 2003. The fact that the travel expenses of the pastors are now the responsibility of the State makes it easier to go further in this area when the results of the evaluation are known. Otherwise, Prestetenesta has been the region of Kyrkja that has had the largest increase in the budget this year, with an increase of 70 new positions in the last two years. That's good. I have noticed that the entire committee will provide additional resources to the Church's resource centre against violence and sexual assault and to the Norwegian Maritime Commission, even though the committee shares a multiple and a minority with regard to the extent of the increase. As the Committee points out, the resource entity and the Maritime Commission are doing important work on each of their fields. I'm glad of the increase in the permissions these people now get. The issue of creating more options at the Church Education Centre in the North will be considered in the context of the revised 2003 national budget, as requested by the Committee. The majority of the Committee also ask the Ministry to work on the construction of a service building near Nidarosdom, given that this could be completed in the event of the anniversary of the coronation in 2006. I cannot say anything about this matter today, other than that I have noticed the message. I know the need and hope that we will find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15371	My theme today is not at the Church, but at the music and cultural schools, which I expect the Council of State, which is also the Minister of Culture, is concerned about. The situation is that the Government proposed to cut the cultural school bag for 2003. This was a continuation of the cut as one in 2002, where the allocation to the cultural school bag was cut by 6 million. kr. It shows – whether they like to hear it or not – the government's true face with regard to the attitude towards the music and cultural school offering to children. I believe that the government had the opportunity to reverse the budget agreement with the Progress Party, but we know that what was stressed was cheaper alcohol and cheaper caravans. It got the Advance Party to, but I can't understand that the Christian People's Party can really be comfortable with it. I think the Council of State is busy with the 20,000 children who are in line to get an offer at the cultural and music schools, and that's important. We talk about prevention in a lot of contexts, and then the prevention work for children and young people is important to put much higher on the political agenda. That's why my question is what the Council of State and the party leader will do in relation to the music and cultural schools. This is a responsibility of the Christian People's Party that the party has. And is the Christian People's Party really comfortable with the priority that has been made through the conciliation, which actually means that the maximum rate of this offer will be lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15378	I must honestly admit that I thought this question was a bit alarming in the debate I am having here today, where we are discussing the church budget – that is what I am responsible for. Yes, the music and cultural spheres are an important matter for the Christian People's Party, and it will be. But that the representative does not have any interest in the Church at all and asks questions about her, but only goes in the area that we are going to discuss on Friday, it is quite alarming, and I notice where the interest lies. The music and cultural spheres are under a government council other than me, and I expect the Clemet Council to come back to it, but I can tell you that the government is going to present a big message about the music and cultural spheres. When it comes to lifting the maximum rate for the music ball, I actually believe, out of my own experience, that it is possible to take some action in relation to the municipalities and give them greater freedom. Perhaps you can get a system where municipalities can import e.g. payment of income in the Music Balls. What's happening today is that one has a price of $800 per semester. One is not allowed to take more, and many children are in line, one is not allowed to expand the payment and thus the frames you have. If one had had a slightly softer pricing, some people would have dropped buying expensive music lessons from private, they might have been offered through the municipal music and culture ball. Here I think we should look at good and flexible solutions. The music and culture sphere is a heart issue for the Christian People's Party. We were a driver to get him legalized, we're going to keep focusing heavily on him. Otherwise I don't think I'm going to go into the other so-called claims on this budget deal. I'm not embarrassed to defend the budgetary agreement that we're behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15389	It's good that the Christian People's Party focuses on the cultural schools and looks after them, because in the draft budget that we got from the government, it was a cut of 7.2 million. kr for development measures in the music schools. So at least they have focus right there. When they made the budget, the focus was a little bad, but I expect that the focus in the future will be better, and that one will be able to take care of the cultural schools, which is an important thing. Moreover, it is good that we have a government council that, when we discuss the Church and religion, has the big overview. Yesterday we read in the newspapers that church buildings are being closed, the municipalities can't afford to keep the churches open. And then the Council of State spends quite a few minutes – perhaps not so many minutes, but a time at least – talking about the travel expenses of priests, that this has now moved from the Councils to the State. It becomes an important matter in many ways, while the councils cannot afford to keep the churches open so that they can keep worship on Sunday. That's good, and that's a good focus of a church council! What are the answers to the Christian People's Party in such a situation? One can cover himself up that this is crisis maximisation, this is not reality, but at least it's the reality we're serving, that the municipal economy is now so that we can't keep the churches open anymore, and that's pretty serious. That is why I expected the Council of State to comment on some of this in its contribution on the Church and church policy for next year. So then I can ask her, what does the Council of State think about this? Does that bother her? And what will the Council of State possibly do to prevent such a situation from occurring, and to continue – if that is really what they're telling us? It's unworthy that we should have a situation where this happens, and it's a result of the government's policy, one and only.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15397	First of all, I can just add that the cut in the music and cultural spheres that were inside the government's side -- that's right enough -- our people here at the Storting have found a way to cover it again, so the money is in place. It says a little bit about the commitment of our people even when it's the case, and I'm glad that they've found more means to put in with what we from the government initially had done. So I actually think focusing on travel expenses is important to do, it's important to have it under control. When we now see the headlines in the newspapers about these churches to be closed, we know that when advisers make proposals, they are usually quite dramatic in different sectors. But I can remember Rolf Reikvam saying that if SV hadn't been in a plurality last year that cut the permits to the council, these municipalities would actually have had $12 million. for existing years to apply to different actions within the Council of Commons. They also had $12 million. kr more to the next year, for they would have transferred the same sum. Thus, the starting point has become even worse than it could have been. When it comes to the local economy, we know that there are many municipalities that are struggling. I hope not that all these churches will be shut down, and I don't think so when the decision is taken. But the government is going to have a review of the finances of the municipalities in relation to the tasks they're charged with, and I hope we can do that. Both the government as it is now, and the former governments – for this has been a long tradition – have put on the municipalities more tasks than we have given them. There's nothing new this year. I also think that when the local government around the country is done with its budget management, the situation will not be as dramatic for the churches as the newspaper headlines have shown in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15408	The Minister of the Church mentioned the baptismal training, and I think most in the Committee are pleased to address that matter. So there's something in front of us. But I want to draw attention to the economy of the local churches again. So we had a hearing with the Council of Churches, and then the Church meeting was concluded. Then we actually experience that the Church Council is asking for a new budgetary hearing with the Committee, because at the Church meeting there had been such alarming signals about the economy of the local church. And some of us chose to meet the head of the Church Council and the bishop of Oslo again to hear what they had to say. The newspapers in the last few days have written that the churches around are in crisis. I would like to challenge the Minister of the Church: what does she think about this is that municipalities cannot light up diacons because they do not have the means to cover their part of it, or cateque positions, which often become combination positions, and which simply remain unoccupied because the municipality does not have the finances to fill up its part of the funding? My question is, does the Council of State worry that the local church is actually suffering? I quote instead Bishop Øystein Larsen in South Hålogaland, who talked about people losing the church locally. I would like the Council of State to take some time to say how the Church should behave in the future when churches are closed and jobs are not occupied.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15417	State Council Reply Hagland would like to take some time, but speaking time is limited to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15420	I'd like to spend a long time, but here in this room we've got our measured minutes. I am also concerned about some of those suggestions, I should not try to hide them. But as I also said to Rolf Rikvam in answer to his questions, there will always be some proposals from the consultants who are not adopted. But that the municipalities have a tight financial framework, I think quite a lot here in this room are some in. It was also important for us to strengthen the municipal economy when we presented the State budget. We increased the municipal economy more than what was in the municipal economics proposition, and in the negotiations with the Progress Party – when one was going to spend about $4 billion more in the budget – it was also very important for the Christian People's Party to fight for the municipalities to be fed about. One billion dollars more than what was already going on. These are numbers that were not familiar with the Church Meeting or others then a described situation. I would also like to remind the representative, Mrs Schjälaa, that the council could have had $12 million. kr more both this year and until next year if his party had not been in the majority who took money from the council last year. Some of the first thing I did as a state council last year was to sue for the transfers to the council to be earmarked. They were initially placed in the frames of the Workers' Party's side, but I wanted to ear tag them. Unfortunately, there was a majority in this room that went in to cut these transfers, and it has made the economic situation of the council even worse than it could have been if there had not been any majority for these reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15429	In one area, the Council of State and I agree, and that is that we can hope that the churches will not be closed. But it's strange that we're sitting here in Stortingen and hoping, while we really have the opportunity to do something about the situation. Because we're the ones that set the framework for the local economy, and we're the ones who decide this question. And if we want to do something more than hope, we have the opportunity through the local economy to secure the municipalities money, so that they avoid a situation as unworthy as a closure of the churches would be. The Council of State makes it a point that we took part from the earmarked allocation to the Councils last year. That's right, but at the same time she underscores the fact that we had a significantly higher framework for the local government sector, and we didn't want that kind of designation in principle. It's a bad way to fund our church that it comes dripping through earmarked funds. The best way – and as we think it should be – is through framework transfers. The minority has a note that is trying to establish cooperation between the Joint Councils. It's a simple sentence that says we ask the department to be involved in building up that kind of activity and that kind of initiative. These are signals that we have received from the outside. The Joint Councils and several of them have expressed the importance of trying to initiate that kind of process. Then we suggest this in a note, but it turns out that the government parties won't be involved. The Christian People's Party would not participate in that kind of initiative. I have a question for the Council of State: can the Council of State comment and justify why it is not important that we signal that this type of initiative, the type of cooperation across the CRAs, is important in order to achieve good church activity around our municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15438	The truth that I thought most people here in the hall should take inwards is that once we've laid out the frameworks for the municipalities, probably the different party constellations have spent more or less money on the municipalities. That's right. Now we've at least got a certain payment back today to have a tight budget, the interest has gone down 1/2 pst., I've got it with me. That's a little bit of the gain we have for not having spent money on things that are badly needed, but have had a tight economy. It has also been included, so there was no complaint to SV that they have not had it. But they give priority to other things. For example, they give priority to: down private schools, that one should not follow the laws, give them less osb. Here we can disagree. But what everyone in this room should be a few things about is that we're very good at putting on the municipal tasks that they're going to do. Then we use a lot of their freedom within their economic systems. So it's going to go down on something. This year, it could be that it's going down on Church. And then I'm glad that there's at least 100 million. kr that is ear-marked, for the situation might have been even worse if the funds had not been doctored in. When it comes to cooperation with the Councils, I have not been involved in the possible debate in the Committee. But if the council wants to cooperate, I don't intend to put myself on the back when it's up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15447	This is not a question, but more a statement. I know that the parties have other arrangements they want to spend time on. But I just want to put a dot by saying that when the Council of State, which is one of the Biggest's most routine and experienced, reacts with such sour glories to a question that occupies very many, and for which she actually has a responsibility in her government council, I think it seems somewhat petty. There are a lot of people who are concerned about the topic we highlighted at the beginning of the debate, and I hope we can have liberalism to discuss the kind of things in this room. Otherwise, I hope that no one is affected by bad measurements – it can go up and down a bit. We get to wish each other a really good Christmas and good political debate also in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15454	If what I have said is perceived as a ‘acid spill’, I of course ask for cause for it, it was not meant to be that way. But I was set up for a church debate now and not a debate about the cultural school or the music and cultural spheres. But it's also important. I still want to take the floor because if I didn't get a question. It's going to follow up on the answer I gave when it's about the cooperation between the Councils. It's -- it's been told to me -- a sentence that's in the middle of a big note, and there's some particular resistance from our parties in Stortinget to that collaboration, isn't it. So I want to repeat: if the council wants cooperation, of course, the foot won't be put down a cork from my side or from the other government parties' side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15461	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15464	The high and rapid rate of change in society places great demands on good knowledge and competence. That is why the 1990s became the decade of challenge reform. Today's society demands lifelong learning. It is a shame to record that the Government Party and the Progress Party are reducing public challenge and competence by reducing the framework transfers to the local government sector. So this is happening at the same time that private providers are screened for cuts and actually get increased frames in their budgets. Many municipalities have major problems. Several municipalities have a smaller population base than before. This has consequences for tax revenue and transfers through the income system. The trend is that in several parts of the country, it is discussed to establish private shelters, which clearly do not have the same economic pressure. This shows with all clarity that something is wrong, and that the Government is passive and sees that this happens. When there are these areas that create different relationships between municipalities and thus increase inequality between people, it is natural that this also produces the major headlines in the media. At the same time, this shows with all clarity which areas need to be strengthened. This is not about detailing municipalities, but about the possibility of forming a common policy in this area. The Labour Party emphasises that all children and young people should have equal rights to challenge. That's why it's important for us to prioritise public institutions that cover everyone. In our opinion, when the government party and the Progress Party in their budget conciliation rather prioritise tax relief and lower alcohol charges, it is a completely wrong priority. One important issue within further training is the large costs that students have when buying school books. The Labour Party introduced a free lending scheme for school books in combination with additional electronic literacy. This has now been torpedoed by this budget setting. An area that has occupied me for many years is future for Technical School. This is a challenge offering that is an important complement between continuing education and higher education. This is the whole deal. What matters to me now is the funding model. There is no doubt that the guest-level system between county municipalities is not working, nor has it worked, after the intention. It is therefore important to establish a financial mechanism that ensures the economy is fair and can be used for those counties that have a technical vocational training offer. One must therefore not create models that act in such a way that the county councils that invest in this offer feel that they will lose money on it. Then I will address the issue of Norwegian training for asylum seekers waiting for a decision. The waiting time for asylum seekers is still very long. Furthermore, long-term inaction is negative and unfortunate. All studies show that the faster the person gets started with language training, the better it is — better for the social everyday life, and better to be closed down with social inclusion. The accession of the Grand Duchy to the Government's change is in contradiction with all the signals about learning Norwegian and getting started quickly on training and work training. In addition, the cut will counter the objective of getting more municipalities to accept refugees when the schooling costs are transferred to the municipalities. And finally, as a member of the state church, I must have a little visit to the church budget. The Labour Party is pleased that the Government Party and the Advance Party took part in the opposition's proposal to increase the rights of the Church Resource Centre. That's good. What is not good is that the same parties were not willing to support the proposal of the Labour Party and the opposition to strengthen the Church's efforts to recruit more women for leadership performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15487	I have read with interest the Committee's position and listened to the debate, and I note with some satisfaction that there are minor changes to the Government's draft budget. Also in the option presented by the opposition, there are relatively modest changes, as appropriate within the allocated framework. I am aware that the parties have their primary proposals, but still take this as a sign that the draft budget in important areas is acceptable and good. All in all, it is a good budget for the Ministry of Education and Research. There is a significant growth in the budget. With a total budget of slightly more than 30 billion kroner, there is a proposal for a net growth of approx. 11 pst. And there have been major priorities in the draft budget. It may be possible to sum up in three: firstly, to ensure the proper and sound implementation of the quality reform; secondly, to ensure the implementation of the research escalation plan; and thirdly, to contribute to improving the quality of the whole education and research system. As far as quality reform is concerned, a number of issues have been dealt with here in Stortinget in the last year. Together with these cases and the adoption of new university and higher education laws and new private higher education laws, the budget, which together provides more than DKK 1 billion only for the quality reform itself plus the study funding and improvements in it, is a very good framework for starting up and implementing the quality reform. I am pleased that the University and Higher Education Council believes that this is a sufficiently good basis for starting implementation. Norway is thus also at an early stage in relation to other countries with the cross-border harmonisation provided for by the Bologna Declaration. As far as research is concerned, we are continuing the escalation plan, and there is a significant growth in what we can call real research crowns to the research community in Norway. We are introducing better incentives for increased private investment in research, there is an increase in the capital of the Research Fund, and there is a historically strong growth in the allocation of long-term, fundamental research. In addition, there is a strong priority for what we call purely quality measures in the budget, including: to the Centres for Excellent Research and New Quality Measures. As far as school is concerned, there are measures for all three main areas that are important to ensure a good school. Firstly, measures to ensure that we have a high level of education in a large proportion of the population, secondly, good accessibility for all, and thirdly, measures to ensure the quality of school. Substantial resources are also provided for quality measures, both in terms of improving learning outcomes and the learning environment. Experiences from Norway and internationally tell us that there are in particular three things that are important then. First, to provide schools with an adequate level of autonomy — schools and school owners — both in terms of day-to-day organisation, forms of education, etc., and second, to mobilise the skills and enthusiasm of teachers, and thirdly, greater transparency and freedom of choice for pupils and parents. This must be combined with systems that provide us with knowledge of the quality of school and a good guidance and follow-up device to prevent and improve quality. That is why we are in favour of a national quality assessment system. We have implemented and taken the initiative of a number of measures in this respect — a series of measures to enhance the competence of teachers and school leaders, measures to disseminate good experience from schools that provide something, including: through the action of demonstration schools, systems of individual and school-based incentives, e.g. the bonus schools. Furthermore, there are measures for simplifying laws and regulations, in which we have submitted consultation proposals to eliminate the rigid competence requirements of the Vice-Chancellor and the relaxation of the classification rules. In addition, there are measures to improve the professional content of schools, whether it is to increase the number of Norwegian hours, a strategy to strengthen real-life education in schools, that you can learn straight after primary school, etc. Several suggestions will be submitted with the Quality Committee configuration. And finally, I would like to mention measures to strengthen the learning environment, where the Storting has adopted a loan scheme, which is now getting even better after the agreement with the Progress Party, and where we have recently also adopted a legal provision that gives students better protection. In 2003, we will also offer all schools anti- bullying programmes, so that they can prevent and repair bullying problems at school. Let me conclude by saying that the budget also contains measures to pursue the reform of competence. Here Norway is a leading country, and one of the last government here has done, as we have proposed to the Stortinget, is to set up a system of access to vocational training for adults and access to evidence of competence. I agree with the committee that language training in the workplace is important, and I do not interpret the redeployment of Chapter 258 as dissenting. I therefore hope we can look at the disposal of the funds on this whole chapter, and that we can implement some trial schemes, not to see if it works positive, but what kind of arrangements can work positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15517	The government proposed to cut the amount of scholastic leisure time by 217 million. kr. This is a 50 pst reduction, which is also supported by the Progress Party. I have recorded that the Council of State explained that it is necessary to have a tight budget. The Labour Party agrees with tightness, but we know that such cuts in such areas go beyond families with bad advice. Cut means slightly higher properties. The Labour Party believes that the school leisure system is a good and safe provision for those who need it, i.e. a good prevention measure. It is not the first time the Right proposal has been cut within the school leisure system. In the previous period, the representative, Inge Wohnung, said over and over again during debates that Right does not give priority to schooling. My question to the Council of State is: What is it really Right wants, and what is the Council of State want? Is it so to understand that the Right will terminate the entire school leisure system? Or is this an economic measure to strangle the entire school leisure system?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15526	It's not unusual, but it's a little strange to witness a debate where you're so busy with the cuts being done. What we're now discussing here is a budget of over 30 billion dollars, where it's a net growth of approximately. 11 p.m., on approx. NOK 3.6 billion. Before that, some cuts have been made on a total of approx. One and a half billion dollars. It happens in every budget, in every department, to make room for the priorities. The reason why they have to be cut is that we do not have full freedom of action because large parts of the budget are tied up in so-called automatic spending bonds, regulated schemes. When we have to do this, it is because we have to have a tight budget – a budget that is tight enough not to put pressure on prices and interest rates. Today we've got a drop in interest rates. We don't know if we would get it if the budget had not been as tight. Just to illustrate how general this is and what the perspective shift the debate involves, I stand here with the list of cuts presented by the Stoltenberg government last year in the responsibility of this department. Education administration, examination, school and church building, primary and elementary schools, quality development, country lines, student grants, adult education, the travel authorisation system, study places, funding and travel expenses were cut. It was to be confused like the same number of cuts that we have proposed this year, and the amount together was to be confused equally. Nevertheless, it was claimed last year that there was a historically large budget with important stakes, and I will give that to the Stoltenberg government right in that it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15533	I have previously expressed satisfaction with the 2003 Government Party Agreement. Now that I am speaking, it is to call for the follow-up to the 2002 revised budget agreement in the 2003 budget. The revised budget agreement in 2002 states in point 16: ‘Equal support is given to pupils in higher education institutions as to other students from 2003.’ The budget has made it possible to provide students at higher education institutions with annual support of DKK 80000 from the 2003–2004 academic year. What makes the Council of State interpret the text of the agreement on «from 2003» to become «from 2003 to 2004»? Another area that was the subject of the agreement at the time of its revision in 2002 and that we cannot see is continuing into 2003 is grants to apprenticeships. Among other things, the speeding up of requests from the NHO entered into the 2002 revised budget agreement of 12.4 million. NOK, which was correctly added to the framework grant to the municipalities, but the money was there. I can't see it's going on. Again, the NHO’s input and call have come both to the Government and to the parties in the Education Committee, and they state: ‘The NHO regrets that the Government has not found at this time to be able to increase the grant to enterprises taking in apprentices’... ‘Creating a place for most qualified applicants may change rapidly in a different economic situation’. We have such a different situation now. Why has it not been possible for 2003 to continue that reinforcement in terms of funding for apprentices, apprentices, who are not entitled to special education under the Training Act but who need direct support for their learning activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15554	I have to admit that on most of the questions about why more money has not been allocated to this kind of thing, the answer is the general question that this budget needs to be adapted to a whole. We're not just providing parts, but we're providing an entire budget that needs to be tight enough to take care of the whole economy. In such a context, this budget has actually gained a very large growth. As far as this is concerned, with support for high school students, I have interpreted it from the fact that the support from the Loan Fund is only granted per person. year of education. Very large parts of the budget we are dealing with here today relate to the year of teaching. That's why we also know that a lot of the amounts we're talking about are proceeds for six months, not for a whole year, etc. The rules governing the award of training aid from the Loan Fund will be dealt with and laid down in the spring for the following harvest and spring semester. If this were to apply from 1 January 2003, it would, first of all, require an additional allocation requirement of more than 7 million. kr, but it would probably also mean additional needs, because there had to be a manual re-examination of the applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15566	First of all, I want to challenge the Council of State on some of the things that have been said in the debate so far, and it goes on the school leisure system. I'm not going to go in and discuss the heads and ears and the puzzled redistributions that the different groups have done. But I'm a little concerned about what has been said several times before by the Right Representatives and who are going to transfer money to the school leisure system, as the minority says, is to grant money to a welfare scheme. Does the Council of State have the same view of this system, and does the Council of State have the same view of learning and knowledge as this is expressed? It's a little important, because it's actually the law on school leave. It's a little bit important, at least for some of us, that the Council of State decides if she defines this the same way. So to a question within another area. I have a very strong sense of the Council of State's arrangements to simplify the legislation. Now I might be involved in creating a myth that it's a very comprehensive set of rules. After all, this has been built up, but there are some amendments that deal with class size, which claim competence for principals, etc. I think it's very good in this, assuming we can put something else at the bottom, as SV has suggested. Had the Council of State been involved, there would have been no problem finding good arrangements. I feel reasonably safe about that. Governments and SV will have greater diversity, a more exciting school. But then there's a man. Governments will replace some of the simplifications by central tests, by exams, etc. If there's something we know for sure, then what controls teaching, what creates homogeneity, what creates uniformity, is central tests. It's an exam. If you want a multiple school, this is the wrong way to go. I would like the Council of State to reflect a little bit on this, cf. the evaluation of reform 94.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15580	I think that's good reason to say, if you look at both Norwegian and international experiences, that it's beneficial, both in the sense that you get better results from it, and because it's also motivating, that there's a certain degree of decentralization and autonomy for each school. It is the international trend to try to do so in those countries where not so far has already come. Norway is not one of the most centralized countries, but neither are we among those countries that have a great deal of autonomy. For example, Sweden and Finland are ahead of us in terms of school autonomy. But it's probably also an international recognition that we have to have systems that give us knowledge of quality. We can't just let it go freely and don't know how it goes. We just have to have some knowledge of the quality of school, have systems to get us there. What's the point of that? The aim should be to put improvement measures in place in time, so that something can be done about it. The exam may be too useful, but it also has some weaknesses. The exam will help us, among other things. not to put measures in place in time. If measures are to be taken in time, some screening tests must be carried out along the way, such as: it is possible to detect reading and writing difficulties when a child is small and you can still change the course. However, I agree with the representative of Reikvam that such national monitoring tools could potentially also have weaknesses. We should, among other things, ensure that we take care of the entire curriculum and the broad objectives of the curriculum of the tool we are developing. Not everything can be tested, but we can still meet the broad objectives we have. In addition, it is important that we test out not only how things stand at school, but also what added value the school is doing to give, given the assumptions the students have. These are the tools we're working on. We're not working on a regime where you have to be tested every day. The quality committee proposed is to be tested in key basic subjects at four stages of initial training. I think that is important in order to be able to take action in time and identify problems such as: may actually cause one fifth to be functional illiterates when they leave primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15591	The councils ended where I'd like to start. In our country last Monday, Kristin Clemet says, "The child sacrificed in the school of unity." She goes on to say, ‘We have failed when one fifth of the children leave school as functional illiterates.’ In addition, it says: ‘She sees it positive in the idea that Norway should have a single school where the director and the factory worker’s daughter can go in the same class. But it's even more important that the factory worker's daughter can become a director. We're not doing well today, she says." I think it's actually wrong, because I know that children of low-educated parents are taking a lot of high-educated education. But that's not the point. The starting point is that in today's school it might as well be the director's daughter who is functionally illiterate when she leaves school, not the factory worker's daughter. My question to the Council of State is: how does she think that the goal of adapted training can be achieved in public schools without funding? She doesn't want to insert that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15613	I think the representative of the Kschillaa was a little unpresis, at least according to what I know about Norwegian school. If you look at the degree to which Norwegian school has succeeded in balancing, you can measure it according to different parameters. Looking at the degree of cohesion measured by geography, i.e. where you come from in the country, the single school has been quite successful, with one exception. It is social segregation, especially in the major cities, for the choice of residence is the main social segregation factor in Norway. When we look at the economic background, it doesn't mean much about how you're doing at school. But what Norway balances very poorly is a difference based on so-called cultural home capital. It tells you something about how much school contributes to social mobility. There are very large differences in Norway, an astonishing gap between students. It's a very surprising and a very sad result, I think. So you could say, do we want to cancel this out completely? No, I'm sure we won't. I don't know about any schools that do it, in any country, but many countries do it much better than us, and they've also seen much better results on average. They manage to combine higher and better quality with more equality; they balance differences due to different home backgrounds, in the sense of cultural capital, better than Norway does. Then we have to have an ambition to do it, we too, because this is a defeat for the high school. – This is a defeat for the elementary school. That means that the factory worker's daughter and the director's son may go to the same school, but the probability that the factory worker's daughter will be director, if she has interest and talent for it, is not as great as in other countries. There's a chance of doing better. What do we need to do to adapt training for everyone? I think some of what we should do is bet on increased autonomy and flexibility in schools. It is to appreciate and encourage more competence and enthusiasm of teachers. It's to bet on more content in school, and it's to bet on better learning environment, i.e. education processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15624	We are told that there is no one from the Right Party who will today respond to what the Government wants with the school leisure system. I want to follow up on the question that the representative of the government council had: Is this a welfare offer, or does the Right Party, like the Advance Party, believe that the school leisure system is a clean storage, that it might even be a useless offer? And what should the option be if we're now going to continue to build up the school leisure system? Is it the key children who are going back again, or is it the way that parents are going to go into a private market and buy themselves services, which I think most of us do not know today, in today's labour market? Then we hear the council say repeatedly that this is a good education budget. But it doesn't help how many times you repeat it, because the point is the profile of this budget. One thing is the overall framework that you have at your disposal, but if we look at what the government cuts, the school free time system cuts an extra tax to the parents. It is about women in the districts being given less opportunity to take adult education. It is also a proposal to take away an important health service from the students, and it has been made clear that this is a service that one should erase completely. This is a service that is built up over 30 years and is an important welfare measure for students who, for various reasons, have come into a difficult situation. Policies are priorities, and at least the Council of State has shown that she has dealt with this education budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15636	I have nothing against talking about the SFO, but sometimes there are too many questions that you can answer them all in two minutes. Let me first say this: my tip is that Karita Bekkelem Orheim would be able to say exactly the same thing about the cuts that the then Minister of Education Giske presented a year ago, and characterized the social or social profile there in exactly the same way. Interestingly, it is so important to stay with the cuts that are needed in order for us to have a tight budget, rather than the formidable increase contained in this budget, especially in the Ministry of Education and Research's budget. My view of SFO: I believe that SFO is a good offer. Sometimes it's better than elsewhere. It's a necessary offer. My view of learning is, of course, that you don't just learn at school, you learn all the time. But if there's going to be any point with school, it's all going to have to stand out as a place where you really have to learn, and where you go because you meet competent people who have been educated and motivated to give you knowledge and skills that are a little bit side by side with what else you can do, and that we don't have the skills to give our children ourselves. This is also why the school leisure system is not mandatory, nor is it the case with non-compulsory measures in this society that everything is fully tax-financed. In some places, there are excesses, and it's in the SFO, and we've provided a budget that may involve some increased excess in the SFO. Otherwise, I want to say something about private schools in the end, since I have 30 seconds left. A lot of people have been in it with private schools, and I would venture to claim that if the opposition parties had been in government, they could not have promoted the proposal of cutting for private schools that they do in their alternative budget. It's a rule-run system. I'm not the one who made up those rules. I agree with the opposition that the rules may have some weaknesses, but then, as a politician, you have to change the rules before you kiss. I can explain here and now that the Government intends to submit a consultation proposal, where we are going to propose changes to the financing model for private schools, among other things. Because we've seen some of the weaknesses the opposition points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15649	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15654	On a school visit to Toröd School in the fall, I had a conversation with the Board of Students. It's so much nicer to go to school now, said one. Nobody has hurt their stomach any more, said another. What would have happened? The school has been through a process they have called «future school» in the last year, and in the spring they came up with a vision for the school that says, «At Torød school everyone is met, seen and appreciated. The learning environment is varied and challenging. Curiosity is taken care of, and everyone experiences every day that they get something." A fantastic vision – yes, more than that, they lived by it as well. The principal himself says that the work is done because of a common recognition that a good and safe school and class environment is essential for children’s learning. The school has put social skills on the agenda together with action plan against bullying, outpatient schooling, technology projects, etc. It's useful to bet on public school. ‘A learning society needs a good school. The good school shall disseminate cultural heritage, values and knowledge, but shall also assist children in mastering, unfolding and social development’» It is in the Christian People's Party program. The Christian People's Party will participate in and facilitate an active and stimulating learning environment. That is why we are betting on a good public school and will continue to stimulate such good schoolwork. That's why we're happy with 381 million. SEK to quality development work for next year, which has increased from 360 million. kr this year. Training provision for teachers is important. The learning centre now assumes this responsibility from the Staten teacher course, which last year spent 29 million. kr. It is important that the diversity of offers is maintained and that, in particular, the CRL subject is taken into account, as this subject is the worst in terms of teacher competence. The project «Shall not?» directed by the Christian Pedagogical Association shows that there is great creativity out there and going. District schools and entrepreneurship are other examples. Culture schools are based on the principle that all people should be given the opportunity to experience and practice art and culture. I'm glad that's $3 million. until the development project is in place, and we are waiting for a message about the cultural schools that the Government has said will be coming next year. This will also allow the Stortinget to put cultural schools into a wider school policy context. In many counties, the colleges are now waiting for progress in construction activities. In this budget, it's set at 10 million. For start-up appropriations for new buildings in Østfold. Stavanger is next, and then follow Nesna and Westfold. The centre party refers to the ‘historical milestone’ that I've been in before, and cuts 284 million. kr to the private schools together with the Workers' Party and SV. I guess that means that these schools are going to be more exclusive then, so you can pay more for your school. Now that the Government is changing the basis for the calculation of state aid so that COSTRA is taken into account, it becomes a more equitable system. For the Christian People's Party, the parents will underline the right to choose alternatives to the public school for their children, as it is the parents who have the primary responsibility for the assignment. This does not go beyond public school, because the system is such that a certain proportion of the average cost of public school grants to private schools is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15672	There may be grounds for recalling that this debate is also about the research budget and future economic value creation, and a targeted focus on, among other things. marine R & D is a fundamental prerequisite for creating values for future bets both at school and at church. Marin R & D is given priority both in the budgets of the Ministry of Fisheries and other departments and in the use of funds from the Research Council. One example of this is that the FUGE biotechnology platform has a marine focus. In addition, for example: the deduction scheme for R & D expenditure, so-called TAX FUNN, to stimulate the R & D effort of industry. The government wants to set up a live Coast Norway in 20 years. Then we have to bet today, for example. by focusing on long-term marine research and development. The ambition is that Norway will be the market leader in the marine industries and the marine supplier industry 20 years in advance, where knowledge-based products, services and production are the important market advantage. In doing so, Norway shall be an attractive host country for Norwegian and international business, where the knowledge base is the trump card. Within the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries for 2003, a total real increase of 28 million has been proposed. kr to marine R & D and innovation, when a correction for funds for the construction of research ships. In fact, there is a real increase from 1999 to 2003, almost 30 pst. within our budget, while the nominal increase is above 43 pst. The development of new species in farming, not least cod, has a central place in the strategy for future value creation in the marine sector. The draft budget reinforces the efforts of cod as a commercial breeder and increases the allocation of the breeding programme in Tromsø from 7 to 10 million. kr. A minimum of 15 million is earmarked. kr for cod research within the Research Council's budgetary framework, and a marine innovation programme is established through the SND where cod farming is a priority. The government has high expectations for research environments, especially in Tromsø and Bergen, and helps to strengthen these environments, among others. by strengthening efforts on the development of cod as a commercial farmed species. We're increasing the grant for fisheries research by 6 million. kr – in real terms – in addition to further strengthening of the basic allocation via the Norwegian Research Council. It is also planned to establish a national marine biobank in Tromsø, and we are giving priority to upgrading and expanding the research and aquaculture stations provided by Fisheries Research and the Marine Research Institute. In addition, a separate department of the Marine Research Institute in Tromsø will be set up from 1 January 2003, and we will support the merger of the Research Institute of Sildoil and the Sildmel Industries Research Institute and Fisheries Research, which has led to the creation of a separate department of Fisheries Research in Bergen. In sum, this is a heavy effort on marine activity and the future harvesting of resources from the sea, which is going to contribute to paying all the good purposes that we have spent the afternoon discussing in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15685	When the Co-operation Board joined a little over a year ago, a very offensive and ambitious goal was set in Norwegian education policy. The Sem declaration contains the best of the three cooperating parties, and in the field of education, a number of measures have been outlined to be implemented during this major period. The need for increased quality, greater diversity and a better learning environment are important pillars, and it has been a long time since so much has happened in Norwegian education policy as in the year we have behind us. The government’s promise to improve the reading and writing training for primary schools was early followed up with an extra hour in Norwegian in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th classes of the current year. Teacher training has changed, with improved class management training and with a particular focus on beginner learning in reading and writing. At the top of this, the government has focused on the real subjects in school, where teachers in the future will have a greater degree of professional specialisation. In addition, individual wage-fixing schemes are open and the department grants further training of teachers. The government has announced a greater school leave and has focused management at school through better training and greater skills requirements. We know this, according to international studies, contributes to higher quality teaching. Higher education and research are also major winners as a result of the cooperation government's commitment to education. Quality reform led to a larger framework for the university and higher education sectors, as well as to research being the major winner. Both the increased public research framework and the extension of the tax credit for research done in enterprises lead to a significant increase in research efforts in Norway. This is in line with the aims of the Swedish Cooperation Administration for Knowledge Norway. Both during and after the elections, individual parties said that it was not possible to invest in education while providing tax relief. This has been proved by the Cooperation Government after only one year in government. Over 17 billion DKK have been provided in tax reliefs, while record investment in education and research. The criticism has ceased, and the so-called alternative education budget proposed today by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party can hardly be called anything other than a profileless adjustment. The Sem Declaration contains 22 points on education and research to be carried out by the Cooperative Government. 15 of the points have already been implemented, while 7 of the points have been partially implemented. There is little doubt that there has been a high pace of change in the education system in Norway. What's most eye-catching is that the opposition has no real alternative. The so-called alternatives that are being launched are just the transfer of money. Where are the new ideas, where are the system changes? International studies show that Norwegian school does not primarily have a monetary problem but also a quality potential. This is the challenge we are facing, and that challenge does not respond to the Workers' Party, SV or the Centre's party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15698	During the debate, there has been a touching concern on the part of the Labour Party for those who have already managed financially. The party has not been very concerned with those who are not doing as well financially. When the representative Bekkemelm Orheim says that the party is too good joint solutions that take care of everyone regardless of income, it is really just a finding of a lack of social profile. It is a clear system change when the Government so clearly prioritises giving school box grants to young people from low-income families instead of lending vocabulary to students from middle- and high-income families. There's a clear ideological mark: what's the state's task? Is it to subsidize those who manage, or is it to help those who need help? For decades of social-democratic school policy, the situation has not improved for those who actually need help to pay, for example: higher education textbooks, rather the opposite. Just the Workers' Party's idea of disseminating resources, so that everyone gets a little, has made it incredibly difficult. There is an obvious lack of willingness to give priority to those who need it. This is where the ideology of the government parties and the Workers' Party differ so clearly. The government's adding 50 million. kr and says that students from low-income families will receive a scholarship to purchase all the textbooks. That's the way it has to be done to meet those who have the need. But the Workers' Party will take away the 50 million. NOK and continue with a scheme where you spend money on the wealthy. So you can choose between spending a given amount of money on a lot of people or spending it on a few. So it's essentially going to be a seagoing operation. This is what might be called, in perhaps unparliamentary language, Hood Robin's policy, namely to take from the poor and give to the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15709	That expression would be accepted by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15712	This debate started today with the opposition going quite high with criticism of the grant to private schools. By clarifying that this is a statutory increase in the grant, I think this argument has fallen to the ground with a breakdown. In addition, if the opposition’s black coloring of the municipal economy and the claim of school rage on the part of the local government sector were correct, this would reduce the municipal use of public school money, and would also happen to the private school, as the grant is. So that concern is also a little bit misleading. So to this philosophical debate that Rolf Reikvam wanted to go up, about what is education, and what is not education. I'd like to take it with me on another occasion, both in school philosophy and in school politics. But I think it is important for everyone to distinguish between a compulsory primary school and what is a voluntary offer, which is the school leisure system. I'm actually in that state even though I have my main background and many credits in addition to that, I learn every day through experience. But it's something other than attending a compulsory primary school. So to that representative, Bekkemel Orheim, said about the school leisure system. The current reduction in the grant leads to NOK 150 in increased parental benefit per year. months. There is no breakdown of the school leisure system. At the end of the day, I just want to say that the Council of State has the full support of the majority in introducing leadership in Norwegian immigrant training. The intentions set out by Trine Skei Grande on the greater emphasis on workplace training, the integration of Norwegian training as part of work training and training in Norwegian culture and other Norwegian forms of organisation, and not least with the use of new technologies in training, are important to get in place. To the extent that the Council of State has the opportunity to make use of these grants paid to the municipalities in this area, I think it is very important to have it done. There will be more efficiency in Norwegian training for immigrants. It'll give us better results, and hopefully, in the long run, we'll get a lot more for the money that the Stortinge grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15727	Fortunately, there has been a lot of focus on education policy, especially school policy, in this year that has soon passed. Less pleasant is the fact that the reason for much of the focus is weak learning outcomes and resource scarcity. In our review of the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we have focused on the need for system change in the Norwegian school framework. It is the opinion of the Progress Party that many of the weaknesses we have seen increasingly are due to system errors. In our opinion, it helps little, as the Workers' Party and especially SV do, to call for greater resources for a school sector that is overly mature for system change. The progress game is about to change the system. In Document No: 8:3 earlier this fall we have made proposals for a number of system changes. Among the most important are: a common school law with free establishment within national recognition frameworks State school money accompanying the student in free choice of school establishment of self-employed schools where self-government has administrative and pedagogical freedom and where parents are in majority nine-year primary school based on school start-up age six years five-year teacher training with three years of compulsory basic education; Through an accelerated procedure, the other parties in the Education Committee have rejected all proposals. System change is preliminary to radical for the SV and the Workers' Party, and too violent for the Right and Christian People's Party. We have the same proposals in our own alternative budget, which are mentioned in the vote. We're not giving up. We believe that many parents and many students are following the Progress Party in the demand for a change in school systems and that they think it is necessary. We believe many parents and students follow the Progress Party in the demand for greater influence in school. We believe many parents and students also follow the Progress Party in the demand that the people should focus. With a focus on folk and zero tolerance against bullying and violation of order rules, focus will also be shifted to good school work, and then the good learning results will also come. We therefore believe that it will not be as long as the changes in the system, as proposed by the Progress Party, force itself forward. Of many committee comments that the Progress Party is particularly pleased with, I would like to end by mentioning it under Chapter 226 on the White Centre. The initiative comes from the Progress Party. We got no response to this last year, but we got a full response this year. But this has also become a measure within the action plan ‘Real science, of course’. I particularly point out that the White Centre in Bergen and Nordnorsk White Centre in Tromsø are mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15762	We'll finish important tasks later in the evening! Yes, thank you, both, the beak between Orheim on my line earlier this evening. But the Workers' Party chooses to give priority to public schools. This means a pre-allocation of funds that violates important human rights principles. Only to establish it: parents have the right to choose for their children. Is the court real when Bekkemelm Orheim, on behalf of the Workers' Party, removes the economic platform for alternative schools? The party of progress will claim no. That is the right of the rich, and not for everyone. The necessary regulation of the cost standard for students, which has been dealt with in the budget proposal, must take place annually. The Progress Party would have the cost norm attached to the basic amount of the population's rights in order to avoid the very situation we're in today. This did not want a majority. Furthermore, a differentiated cost standard for foreign students who have chosen to take a different course – a choice that means a tougher everyday life, but which offers completely different opportunities in a jobseeker market – is now finally in place. In the case of the travel allowance which disappeared in the proposal, the Contracting Party is unable to do so. If the Government wants to maintain higher places of study at all locations in the country, it must bear the financial responsibility for this and not force the students to choose a place of study in the home state for economic reasons. The right to choose a professional combination and a place of study on a qualitative basis must not be impaired by the removal of one scholarship. Then, in the view of the Progress Party, it becomes impossible to hold the students responsible for the implementation of the study. In the case of alumni in secondary school, this scholarship should also not be tested in relation to the parent’s economy or wealth. This grant must depend on the structure of the offer in each state. If the student cannot stay at home, the scholarship must be paid to cover the extra costs of the student and the family. This is in real and sharp contrast to the fact that it is the weakest to be helped. I am very surprised that the weaker should be helped, when the weaker are people with less than NOK 200,000 in income responsible for an entire family.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15775	There are always exciting educational debates in Stortinget. One thing is quite certain, and that is that we from the Right Group get a pretty strong tribute to the Government and to the Council of State, almost panegyric – the nearest one comes Kim Il Jong tendencies in Norwegian politics. That's for sure. What's a little bit more uncertain is: what's the difference between the rhetoric that the council uses and the rhetoric that parts of the group use? That's always the moment of excitement, and there's been some disagreement, I experience, in this debate as well. I find it very exciting to hear Søren Fredrik Voie clarify what he thinks about this with teaching and learning. He uses the word ‘education’, while others use the words ‘learning’, ‘learning environment’ and ‘adjusting’. Also through the use of concepts, we express that we have a different view of what we're really talking about, and I think it's often expressed in that kind of debate. That's the moment of tension, and we've been exposed to it today. I have too much sense of what the Council of State has said in its statement. I still disagree with her on the extent to which the exams and central tests govern the teaching. The evaluation of Reform 94 showed, at least something that is obvious, that it is the exam that largely governs the content of the school. We cannot make major changes in the content of the school as long as we maintain the type of exam and the kind of framework conditions. If we are to have major and extensive changes in the content, as the Council of State wants, and as SV wants, we need to change some of these framework conditions. That's for sure. With more of this, there'll be even more consistent and less diversity. It worries me, and it should also worry the Council of State. So I finally want to draw up a note that SV has promoted, and that we get a majority for, that goes to look at the entire adult education piece. We have implemented the structural changes in the reform of competences – all this is in place – but we see that we have not come much longer to provide training and good models for adults. A lot of infrastructure is there. There is now a need for a wider and more comprehensive review. The Committee asks the Council of State to step up its work and to return to the Grand Duchy. I think that there are major and important challenges to address. So I expect that work to be started, and that it will be reported back to Stortingen so that we can get a better use of resources and put the resources and forces more into operational training. So far there have been many investigations, there have been many projects, etc. Now it's time to get this systematized and out to the adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15789	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15792	Thank you, President! But I didn't get a line on the Minister of Fisheries who's now gone, at a little incubation, which isn't just mine. But I'm using the rest of the minute to refer to a majority opinion in the committee attached to Protev's AS, and I'm betting that the remaining state council can communicate the message to the one who's gone. I will carefully read the conclusion in the note: ‘The majority will further point to promises made by the previous government — and repeated by the current government — related to marine sector investment — should be followed up in practice so that the necessary resources for Protev’s AS are put in place.’ This was a theme one year ago in the context of the current year's budget. At that time, the Minister for Fisheries gave assurances that this would be done. There is still no money in place. It was also in the context of the revised national budget a majority consisting of the same parties, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party, if I remember correctly, that went too exactly the same. They encouraged the Government to find a solution within the means available, among other things. linked to research funds. Nothing has happened. The company has a difficult situation. It's not going to start with a job that they actually did, and now it would be okay if you could follow up on the bet you're expressing in the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15802	I recorded in the reports of the Council of State that she refers to the strong growth in the Ministry of Education budget for 2003. But the reality is that most of the real growth is due to the increased payment of study funding. And there's an increased payout that the government parties actually opposed. It was the bulk of the population that last autumn made sure that what we had promised the students before the election in 2001 – and the government parties had even promised more – was actually implemented. State councillor Clement tried to remove most of the scholarship that the government had offered to Stoltenberg in the state budget she submitted after she had taken over. It is quite a long way between word and action in relation to government parties. One of the areas that I'm most concerned about really being hit by that distance is the research budget. When we discussed the stepping-up plan for research in spring 2001, the then educational policy spokesman for the Right said that the rise to OECD level in 2005 for the Right was actually a minimum target. It was said that we had to have at least DKK 1 billion each year in increased public funding for research to achieve that goal. And then we've figured out that maybe there's more to it than that. In the autumn of 2001, we put forward a government budget which, if we ignore tax incentives schemes, would amount to SEK 1.3 billion more for research. So we were right in front of that action plan. Now, with the Bondevik government's draft budget, and the subsidiary vote with the Progress Party, a budget was created that reduced the increase in research by 200 million. NOK 1,1 billion. Then research was further weakened in the revised national budget in spring, and now a research escalation is being presented, if one reads the comments of the government parties, of 640 million. kr. This means that there is a halving in research growth compared to the government of Stoltenberg in the autumn of 2001. I think one should be so honest as to say that the stepping-up plan for research has been set aside, that it will be impossible to achieve the OECD target in 2005 with the budget adopted by the government parties and the Progress Party. Then I heard that the Left's representative earlier in the debate said that they were following the stepping-up plan for the reform of competences. No, you don't. The University and Higher Education Council says that if you are to receive a late payment in 2004, you will be able to implement the Quality Reform. The truth is that it is well below what the government itself wrote in its comments when we dealt with the quality reform in the Stortinget. In addition, universities are not cost-adjusted. I think, in the end, it's a good idea to hit your chest because you're going to take a start grant to the University of Eastfold. It actually decided the Storting last year, and there must be limits to how many years in a row you can adopt a start-up grant to a college.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15815	Søren Fredrik Voie has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15818	I noticed that the representative Giske said that ‘we’ had made sure that the study funding had been put in place. I don't know who he meant by 'we'. When the representative Giske was the State Council, he actually went out and promised the students that study funding with conversion would not be introduced until the competence reform was in place and implemented in higher education. What happened last autumn was a violation of what the former Council of State Gishe had promised. So who is 'we', as the former Council of State, now the representative, Giske is talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15825	We've been here since 8:00. 9 this morning, so what is to be said now, must really have a school policy effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15828	I did not know that it was a three-minute exchange, but I will answer the question. «We», which ensured that the study funding was adopted in the autumn of 2001, were the Progress Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. We increased the scholarship for the students by NOK 10 000 per year. years. The government parties, who had not only been dissatisfied with what we put up to, removed 8 000 of the 10 000 kroner and said that it would be implemented over four years – in violation of what was said. In addition, just to add it, you remove the depreciation for long studies. That means that a student who in the future takes six years of education actually gets $48 000 more in debt. That means that almost the entire grant increase that we posted is being eaten up by an increased debt burden for the students. It was never meant to increase the grant of the Quality Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15835	On the palate of the day, it's interesting to hear the representative Giske's interpretation of things that are now happening. It is true that the majority put in place a student reform and an increased grant share. The government has followed it up and got the money. Most of last year's decisions were effective this year, and it has been put in place. The representative should be very happy that we have found room for it. The representative, on the other hand, is not so happy with some of the other things that we have had to do in the budget to make room for this, but it was necessary to do so. Finally. When the representative Giske comes up with a write-down on long studies and draws up this bill of 48 000 kroner, he covers the actual conditions by attacking the period between two system changes. If you look up the new scheme against the old one, someone who spends less than five years of study, with the new system, will have less student loans than you've had with six years of primary schooling. That's the actual ratio.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15842	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1089]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15858	I promise to be quite short. I would like to address the motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, which is mentioned in the vote. I'll briefly make two points. One is that we are fundamentally sceptical about this way of budgeting – adjusting the budget so late in the year after what has actually happened. That's a comment that we've given in other committees, and that we also give here, related to the system itself. We're fundamentally in disagreement with that. We believe that it must be a better solution to the budget deficit, and then explain the budgetary deviations afterwards. The second is that this is also a demonstration that it is money. Some people get money, and others don't get money. Once again we get a demonstration that in some areas there is no limit to how much money can be staggered on the legs. The example is, of course, Chapter 254 Adult training grants — which relate to Norwegian training for an increasing number of people. Here, with no sinful objection, it is set at 172 million. kr on an item which is not an estimate exercise and which is not a transferable item. This is an example of some getting, while others are told that the budget has been used up and the box is empty. But the box is not empty. We have shown in our alternative budget another disposal of funds in four different operations. Finally, I would like to point out that the capital we asked for at the end of the previous case, namely Protevs, could have been put on the table in this room by means of savings related to exchange rate developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15872	Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1107]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15880	We're going to vote on case No. 7 and 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e15887	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e20125	There is an alternative proposal from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e24354	During the debate, Mr Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, and Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, put forward the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e25418	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen to some chapters and posts under I. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.ObjectivesCrons249Other measures in education21Special operating expenditure, reduced by 2 400 000from €16 626 000 to €14 226 000253People's colleges70Additional to other higher education institutions, can be used under Item 60, reduced by 1 200 000 from €364 528 000 to €363 28 000 258Research, development and joint actions in adult education21Special operating expenditure will be reduced by 3 700 000 from €80 000 from €80 000 to €76 300 000260University of Oslo is increased by 59 000 from €2 778 775 000 to €2 837 775 000261University of resources will be spent in Bergen50Stat grant grants will be increased by NOK 55 000 from NOK 1 623 346 000 from NOK 1 678 346 000 from €262 The President will propose that the vote be taken as an alternative between this proposal and the corresponding chapters and posts in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e25714	The following chapters and posts are then voted on as the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen have announced that they are against: Cape. 243 items 1 and 60, cap. 254 items 60, 62 and 70 and chapter. 274 item 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e25726	The President shall then vote on the other chapters and items under I and above II.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-11.ana.ud212e25743	There is no record.
