ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e28	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For the province of Hordaland: Pål Berberfjord For Uppland County: Reidun Gravedahl For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Liv Signe Navarsete For South-Trundellag County: Jørund Leknes For Vestfold County: Inger Møll and Vidar Andersen For Eastfold County: Gretha Kant Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Thorbjørn Jagland from 22 January onwards and until further notice from the representative of Mr Magne Aarøen on sick leave from 22 January until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Martin Kolberg For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Per Steinar Osmundnes
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e99	Martin Kolberg and Per Steinar Osmundnes are present and will take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e107	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e110	On behalf of the representative John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to the Government to propose amendments to the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19, so that Norwegian citizens with vested rights in popular property retain proportionate rights to disability pension even without three years of prior membership upon return to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e115	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e133	When I do this interpellation, it is after a number of requests and recordings from businessmen in agriculture who have taken the idea of developing a local production and a local processing program, but which is close to noise the head of the wall in relation to the legislation or interpretation of the legislation when this is to be approved by the Food Authority. The biggest challenge for agriculture today is poor profitability. With our own country as a limited market, there's nothing to pick up from extra prices or increase volume on standard production. Therefore, the value creation programme was developed to stimulate a more specific production based on local production and processing, usually based on local traditions and food culture directed towards a more buy-and-pay market. It would be improper to think of ourselves as self-contradicting if, on the one hand, we were to challenge the industry to become more innovative and to increase the contribution to its own income and, on the other hand, not to do anything about the legislation or interpretation of the legislation in order to facilitate producers. The detailed legislation on food production is broadly harmonised with the corresponding EU legislation through the EEA Agreement. It appears that this legislation is initially adapted to large-scale industrial production. A small scale niche production on the garden use, at the small food producer, will not be able to satisfy today’s detailed articles of association. This applies not least to slaughterhouse activities, but also to milk. With e.g. requirements for pasteurisation of milk for cheese production may be problematic. We have had a centralisation of the slaughterhouse and a long transport of the animals. Many respond to this transport, for the sake of animal ethics. It may also appear that the consumer is asking for meat from animals that have not been subjected to stress such as transport to a slaughterhouse. Animals that are slaughtered at home cannot be transposed according to the law now formulated. And if a person builds a garden slaughter, the supervision and control costs will be so large that it is impossible to take this into account. Let me make it clear, before I go on, that it is of course entirely superior that we have legislation and control systems that ensure that all food that is being translated is safe. All food production must be consumer rights, we must have quality control and documentation from land to table. This Norwegian food production must be associated with it, it must be competitive. But we have to be able to do this in a simpler way than what's decoding now. Governments in other countries it is natural to see, such as Austria, Switzerland, Germany and others, may appear to have found ways of ensuring safe small-scale production. Norway, with its very good animal health, should have greater opportunities than others in this field. In «Small-scale meat production», a report issued on the basis of a project contracted by the State Food Authority on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is: ‘In some EEA countries, cultural and traditional backgrounds are a major element of small scale slaughterhouses and meat processing establishments. The project team perceives that these slaughterhouses have been approved under EU Directives. The project group considers that the Norwegian legislation does not prevent a similar industrial structure in this country.’ I think it is bad that we should be in the situation that the Food Safety Authority rejects the application for a mobile slaughterhouse not because of or with regard to health and safe food, but because of the interpretation of an EU legislation. The goal must then be to increase local value creation and safe food, not the legislation itself. But let me say one example: 'Meat from Hadeland' starts a project to get across locally anchored meat production with animals that had grown up, were slaughtered and processed in Hadeland. Local processing plant and mobile slaughterhouse were planned. This is a thoroughly developed project. User surveys and test production have been carried out here with very good feedback. Nevertheless, after half a year of treatment, the application for authorisation was rejected by the State Food Authority — not on the basis of health and food safety, no, professional evaluation in relation to the slaughterhouse regulations has not even been made, but it has been rejected on a principle basis in the light of the interpretation of Norwegian legislation, EU directives and information on practices in Sweden and Denmark. The paradox here is that this project had received a good deal of public financial support, including from the state, and so the state's own supervision rejects the whole thing on a principle basis! When we in the Business Committee proposed the value creation programme in the context of the agricultural notification process, we were aware that this would be some of the barriers. That's why we also wrote in Innst. S. No 167 of the Industry Committee for 1999-2000: ‘The Committee would stress that the need for the identification and removal of ‘bottlenecks’ for innovation should be an important strategy for increasing value creation in food processing and sales. In addition to the control function, local food surveillance should become more established and have a responsibility for guidance for small-scale producers related to the development of good manufacturing processes and production premises.’;» Of course, the role of food surveillance or the role of new food surveillance is becoming important. If we are to succeed in product development, as envisaged in the value added programme, manufacturers and processing companies must receive professional guidance so that everything can be developed and implemented in accordance with the requirements for healthy and safe food production. Technical assistance must enter into the process. The organs of the Governing Body cannot just sit and say no, no, and even sometimes intermittently. In food supervision, there will be competence for guidance. Now I'm really aware that there's going to be a question of stability. It will be difficult to have a supervisory function that checks what you have instructed yourself in. But this has to be an attempt to find a solution. Either you need to suggest that a trust in your professional integrity or you need to separate the tutorial from the control. We have to think whole-heartedly in the state in this area as well. The example of the ‘Made of Hadeland’ project just shows the need for it. Many ask whether it has been of the common sense, or for the sake of the case the logic, of this. When it comes to the supervision and control of game meat, the game rules and instructions lay down a much simpler and easier to implement system. When these also apply to strict requirements, we have a guarantee of food security. Why can't this be transferred to domestic animals? Of course, I should be good at going into professional assessments for which I do not have the right to do so. But local surveillance vets I've been talking to think this is also a defense for domestic animals. It is difficult to detect salmonella or other bacteria in local studies, but at least in case of suspicion, samples may be taken for analysis and the slaughter kept away from chilling until investigations have been carried out. If diseases are detected, they can easily be traced back to the producer they come from. Producers also claim that it is not reasonable that one in Norway with many cold winter months cannot slaughter the garden, with all the foremons it has. Instead, the animals shall be transported to the slaughterhouse for miles from the garden. When it comes to milk-based production, we know that this is a potential for both agriculture and tourism if we can facilitate it. The starting point must be that the challenges can be solved, whether they are with simple pasteurisation machines or what they might be. It's the solutions I'm now challenging the state council and his professionals, and it's with certain expectations. Because I know that a lot is going on when it comes to the organisation of the public food administration, with new food supervision, new food laws and distributions, such as: the report on small-scale meat production, to which I have previously referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e173	The representative Rudihagen addresses important questions in his interpellation. I am concerned that consumers should have access to a greater shortage of food and that the agricultural industry and those responsible for further processing should be able to exploit their part of the potential of an increasing demand for a special product. At the same time, it is not difficult to see that small-scale enterprises face many challenges. It is therefore important to take the issues seriously and get an approach that looks at the overall framework conditions for small-scale producers. I have noticed that there has been some frustration in the industry, as the interpellant was inside his post, which is partly due to poor public coordination. I would therefore like to signal that I will be involved in taking new initiatives to facilitate participation for small scale producers. In this context, a plan will be drawn up for such activities, in which one will look at the overall impact of the actions of the Ministry, supervision and key users on this group. This work will be based both on the coordination of existing and new actions. An important reason why many manufacturers experience different handling and frustration is a fragmented food monitoring system with three state supervision systems and a municipal supervision of over 80 independent units. The public has also not been good enough when it comes to providing help and guidance. By establishing a comprehensive food surveillance system, to which the Stortinget has joined, it will be better able to provide a better coordinated and streamlined supervisory system. Here in Norway, we have always had a good system for securing good and safe food, where the standards have been high so that one could be on the safe side. I would like to state that it is never possible to go on chords with health and food safety requirements, and therefore both small and large manufacturers have to face strict quality requirements. However, there are examples of authorities interpreting the law of the literal and the strictest layers. It is with this curtain that one has had various reviews of the code to see if interpretations and recommendations have been too strict. Similarly, it has been important to reconsider whether there could be openings for regulatory simplification in relation to those who operate small-scale operations. All food production is based on the fact that the product is safe and of good quality and that its production is followed up by good quality assurance. A failure in the production of food is involved and is damaging to everyone in the industry. It is a strong desire on my part to give consumers a greater lack of food. This is the background to the establishment of the Value Creation Programme for Food Production in the agricultural sector in 2000 and the 2001 Repurchase Agreement. Both scoring programs will stimulate the industries to grasp the potential of the different segments of the market. It is important that these measures are continued. In 1996, food law was reviewed with a view to better facilitating and understanding small scale production. That review led to some changes in the legislation on milk. Among other things, there was an opening for the processing of milk from the garden and the sale of own milk products from squares, markets and shops in the neighbourhood, and a separate exemption for milk products with a traditional character was opened. It was also opened for the production and sale of products made from unpasteurised milk, then under good hygiene conditions. In practice, considerable competence has been found to be required to comply with this opening, but good user-supervisory dialogue has gradually brought about good solutions. In recent times, many small-scale producers have asked the Ministry to look in particular at the legislation related to the slaughter and processing of meat. The State Food Safety Authority and the State Animal Health Authority have been entrusted with the task of identifying possibilities and challenges for the slaughter and processing of meat on a small scale in the autumn of 2001. The project group completed its work on the eve of the year, and the report from the work has recently been transferred to the department. As a follow-up to the report, I have already entrusted the Food and Animal Health Authority and the Animal Health Authority with the task of finding concrete solutions and any proposed legislative changes. I have specifically pointed out the problem of being able to carry out small scale slaughter and questions relating to a mobile slaughterhouse, where I have asked for a legal assessment of the possibilities to allow the slaughter of animal species other than pure. I will consider proposals from the project group as soon as possible. I would also point out that Norway has, through the EEA Agreement, harmonised its legislation with EU legislation in this area. However, the legislation of the EEA Agreement opens up in some areas to minor requirements for small enterprises which are traded in a restricted geographical area. As mentioned, some less stringent requirements are already implemented in Norwegian legislation in the milk sector and for other production. There are also developed legislation with lower requirements for the slaughter of reindeer that is being translated nationally. Work on a specific small-scale legislation on poultry meat and for the slaughter of rabbits and farmed game will be carried out before the summer. Activities, other than slaughterhouses, which only sell their products directly to consumers, are covered by the general hygiene legislation. This legislation can be more easily adapted to small scale enterprises than specific legislation can, as it opens up greater freedom of interpretation. With the extensive requirements for food production, I will strongly underline the need for good dialogue between the producer and supervision. In particular during the establishment phase, it is of particular importance that the manufacturer make contact with the Food Safety Authority at the earliest possible time for guidance and cooperation. Experience shows that good solutions can be found within the current legislation. This is due to the preparation of appropriate guidance material for local food surveillance and nutrition. The guidance material shall be appropriate to the conditions which should apply to food businesses operating on a small scale. The report that has just been delivered suggests that food monitoring should be stepped up in relation to small-scale producers. Similarly, the report proposes to allow one or more of the local authorities to specialize in small-scale food production, so that they can gain specific competence in this area, and to advise the other supervisors. In this way, a more uniform management can be provided for the activities and help the supervisory staff who have this as their special area. This proposal will be considered in more detail. In this context, I am concerned that the authorities should be represented both as the supervisory authority and as the guidance body without conflicting with the state of play. This issue will also be taken into account when setting up the new Food Safety Authority. In the case of aid and guidance to small-scale producers, five regional competence networks are set up to meet the many challenges of small-scale producers on a broad scale through the Value Creation Programme for Food. Challenges in relation to establishment, product development and regulation will be issues for which these centres of expertise can help. I have great expectations for the networks of expertise to be established. It is crucial that those who produce food have the necessary knowledge and understanding of the importance of good hygiene. This knowledge is also important in order to establish a meaningful dialogue between supervision and enterprises, and will at the same time help to make the legislation more accessible to small-scale producers. In this context, I have taken the initiative to see what measures can be taken to ensure such a necessary competence in hygiene. Is it possible to set requirements for the road to go, as Denmark and Finland have done? Or can this be ensured by some form of authorisation, as the system is equipped with spray certificates for those who are going to handle sprays? This assessment is now being carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Health, which both administer current hygiene legislation. The State Food Authority and the Fisheries Directorate are central to this distribution process. I would like to stress that it is the obligation of the establishment to acquire the necessary competence to ensure that the products are safe. I think it is necessary to draw up a comprehensive plan to ensure good coordination of existing and new measures for small-scale food producers. Here we're going to add the following four points: 1st@item: inlistbox It is the responsibility of the authorities to meet the demand for a greater lack of food products on the part of consumers and, in this context, to play an active role in developing a competitive small scale production.2. One must work to identify and make use of the possibilities offered by international and national legislation for a more adapted legislation.3. All such approaches shall not be on chords with safe food, and good and relevant control and competence requirements shall be imposed on those who wish to carry out such production.4. The privileges of small scale producers shall be given high priority within a coordinated and integrated food monitoring system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e216	I thank the Council of State for the information about what is going on, which I also perceive is a follow-up to what former Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is working on. In fact, I agree very much with the four action points outlined by the Council of State. But he also said in his post that there was an example of interpreting the legislation too strictly. That's what I think you should focus a little on, because I'm absolutely sure the Minister of Agriculture agrees that a regulation is not an end in itself. It's a tool to ensure safe and healthy food quality, which we're all a few that we're going to have. As I know Norwegian agriculture, we have a good starting point with good traditions for such production. Then we must seek to shape a code and establish a guidance and control device that can reasonably and as easily as possible ensure and document the quality of food. I believe that mobile slaughterhouses – at least for the Food Authority and lawyers there – are in border countries in proportion to the EU legislation. It is also stated in the report I mentioned in my main post. But do we think that this can be done defensively, we get to stand on it, document it and argue for it, instead of putting ourselves flat for the most restrictive interpretation. For what the Food Authority writes, they consider it questionable whether there is a legal basis for using mobile slaughterhouses other than the slaughter of domestic animals. If this is to be fixed, it must at least be a professional, sensible and comprehensible argument to those who are engaged in the industry. Why this discrimination? I have also noticed that many professionals claim that there is getting poorer meat quality out of the long transport. Yes, in that case there would be good reason to facilitate local slaughter. We need to look for solutions instead of saying no. Consumer-righted food production must guarantee quality and must be documented. Consumers will also ask for origin, and many will be concerned about the way animal ethics has been – long transports osb. I actually think that all of these concerns are moving in the same direction, simply towards local processing and a local control. The food must receive a quality stamp, in a literal sense, a stamp showing quality approval, who has approved, and preferably the locality. Let's stay up in the Gudbrand valley, where I come from, and say that one at the top of the Ottawa valley, for example. stamp ‘Lom and Skåk Veterinary District’. This means that one must benefit from local supervision and open up for local slaughter. Because I believe that by showing local supervision trust, a person will be able to handle this in a professionally justified way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e229	Let me first state that I agree in principle with the interpellant that a regulation exists to serve people, consumers and producers and should not be a nuisance to anyone. Essentially, I think we need to see it so that the legislation in general in this country is such that it has a good purpose that most people are served with, but then there is something about the practice and culture of the practice that often makes this work more to the detriment than to the help of finding good solutions. We have to look at that. I give that answer on a general basis, but it also applies in this area. I also said in my main post that today we have a supervisory system that is very fragmented. There's different state supervision, there's municipal supervision, there's different cultures and there's people who look different at the tasks they have. The possibility of creating a common culture in order to enforce, on the one hand, strict and correct legislation in the interests of public health, but without making more of it than it is possible for manufacturers to come up with such legislation, and, on the other hand, to help suppliers and producers to come forward, we have now established a uniform supervision, which will be in place during this year, and which will enter into force as of next year. It is my clear ambition that, during this year, when we form a new food control system to manage all this legislation, meet the individual producer and, at the same time, create confidence in consumers that everything is going on in a way that is served by public health and consumers, we will be able to create a kind of culture and attitudes in such an organisation that will make it easier for us to use the legislation for what we all want, I believe, a multiplicity of and spread small production in addition to the large volume production for which our large food industry will stand. It is, as I said, my clear ambition. We see that there is strict legislation in the EU area, and EEA legislation is, of course, a long way to go. There is strict supervision of what is going on, but it is possible to get a lot of exciting small-scale food production, as we are known abroad. Of course, we're going to do the same thing here in the country. To the question of mobile slaughterhouses, as I said in my post, I would like to say that we have asked the State Food Authority – on the basis of the report that has been prepared, where we do not see it fully explained how flexibility can be found in the legislation that we are subject to – to look into what opportunities we have to put this into practice in several areas. With regard to the debate on domestic slaughter that is partly going on, there are some people who think that we can somehow get back to some kind of commercial slaughter out on the tuna, as we know it happened a few generations ago, and that you can rig to slaughter equipment after driving a little mud in the morning, slaughtering and then running a little dung in the evening again. I'll put a pretty clear line over that. It's allowed for its own use, it's allowed to give such slaughter away to friends, but it'll never be allowed to do this for commercial use. If we are talking about domestic slaughter, we are talking about small-scale slaughterhouses that require considerable investment and that must meet strict hygiene requirements. That's what we should focus on in relation to what we call home-slaughter, which perhaps should be called building-slaughter, in professional but small-scale facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e240	All agree that small scale production should provide safe food. The opposite would be to put the good development of this type of food production in reverse. No one wants that. On the contrary, we want this to develop positively. The wish of the working party in relation to the type of production is, of course, to provide an economic outcome for the producer and to develop in addition a larger cream business than we have seen in the past. At a time when it is focused on greater efforts to create our own job, this type of activity is in the middle of the blink. Some people do it well, but not all. Maybe we can't expect that either. Some claim that there has been a lot of work to get started, but that the problems have been affordable, among other things. in relation to food control. Others have given up, both because they are left with the impression that the legislation is insurmountable, and also because the economy is too risky. Northern Agriculture Schools have now become one of five areas of competence to develop networks and assist small scale producers. As we put so much emphasis on the production facilities, the management of this school said that one should have a production room so that it was possible to see whether the product could be further developed on their own. In reality, this is not as different from what is being added into the incubator capability of others who will start their own business. I believe that it should be invested in this when we pay so much attention to the requirement of the production facilities. It doesn't help much with a good product, if the production facilities cost hundreds of thousands, yes, up to millions. In this context, it is important to highlight the meaning of SND. When the new food inspection is going to be in place, I also believe that we should look into whether we should not control the final product to a greater extent than the production premises. It's said that it's e.g. in France, very stringent controls on the final products are stricter than those at the production premises. However, it should not, either now or in the future, be placed on the market for non-target foods. Then the whole bet can bet. People don't want to buy food that makes them sick. In this way, I fully agree with the inter-pellant and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e255	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for this initiative, which is very important, and which comes at a time when we have a very broad national debate on several components of Norwegian agricultural policy: consumer issues, price issues, choice of products, etc., and after the Council's reply to the interpellant, these must now be expected to receive a positive follow-up. As many people have been involved, this programme will meet with resistance. I think that in particular can be illustrated by the fact that some of the actors who are set to follow up this programme may be set to be the drivers of a policy that is likely to risk hitting themselves. This is a point that I think the Minister of Agriculture has to follow and follow up to a special extent. Norwegian agriculture deserves revitalisation at a time when we know that import protection will gradually be reduced. One thing that affects these days is that we have the most boring shops in Europe. Whether that's right or not, I don't know, but this relationship is probably also part of the debate we have here and now. Norway is naturally – with long distances – created for niche production and local production, and I think the consumer has a tendency to choose to act locally, where the quality is known to be recognizable. It also provides a clue to branding, a policy that we have almost systematically abandoned. Instead, we have opted for a uniformation of Norwegian food products, which in general has created difficulties for Norwegian agriculture. Substantial resources are allocated to this programme: 100 million per year. years. We're talking about a billion, and it should just be missing that you can't and should and should make demands for the results you have to expect to come out of this. A point on which the Council of State was concerned is to find and make use of the possibilities offered by international legislation for a more adapted national legislation. When successful in this area within the EU and the EEA, we should have the same ambitions that we should succeed at home as well. But we will not succeed if it is today's dominant actors and agricultural co-operation that should be the ones to keep both hands on the wheel in the development of this programme. This should be a win-win situation for Norwegian agriculture and for the Norwegian consumer. I also assume and take for granted that there is a national idea bank for good ideas that can be further developed and commercialised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e270	The value creation programme for Norwegian food production included: established to satisfy the desire and need for greater diversity and distinctiveness in food production. It was a unanimous nutrition committee which, in the course of the report on Norwegian agriculture and food production in the spring of 2000, was behind this programme. The party of progress was also involved, even though we were sceptical about using public funds in the five hundred trillion class. We feared a new bureaucracy with a large number of taste judges on public payrolls. It should be those actors in the value chain for food that want more activity and that have the means of income, that have to bear the brunt of the financial burden, we thought. All studies show that consumer trends change and agriculture should adapt. Farmers should, of course, continue to think about efficiency, volume and competitive prices, but in parallel with this we also need to pay greater attention to quality, diversity, range and distinctiveness. In examining the agricultural notification, the entire Committee underlined the need to identify and remove bottlenecks in order to realise increased value creation in processing and sales. It's almost two years since the Storting stressed these things. Nevertheless, farmers experience a variety of rules and rigid bureaucracy that make it very difficult, and in some cases impossible, to succeed in small scale and niche production, and this has been illustrated by interpellant Rudihagen. In particular, home-based milk and meat production. Many potential entrepreneurs in District Norway are concerned that the responsible authorities do not allow them to contribute to living areas. The impositions given are impossible to implement. A large form field and bureaucracy are depressing throughout the agricultural environment. In particular, smaller slaughterhouses and meat processing operators have significant problems. As the Council of State had in mind, SNT and SDT have looked at the legislation to find out what is room for within the EEA and Norwegian legislation. This must be an urgent matter for the agricultural authorities, because there are signals from all over the country about small processing plants that are about to give up and that have given up. So one might be tempted to ask, what are we going to do with a value creation program if the authorities aren't able to set things straight? What happens in other EEA countries, such as Switzerland, Austria, Germany and Italy? Yeah, I'm just asking. Well, there have been small-scale establishments in many places. It is a selection of offers with farm dairies and slaughterhouses that sell specialties to the local market, tourists and much, much more. I want to remind the Minister of Agriculture that we are governed by exactly the same legislation. We can't be any worse. Responsible authorities must now speed up. [[The President clubs.]] Otherwise, it may be appropriate for Stortinget to take an initiative and impose a mandate on this government, so that farmers are allowed to develop viable settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e285	The President will note that speaking time is to be held in 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e288	I think the theme that Rudihagen addresses is very important. We in SV are very pleased that it will be put on the agenda again in Stortinget, and I think it is one of the most important areas that the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture should give priority in the years to come. I have had the pleasure of following both the establishment of a mobile reindeer slaughterhouse and one that has driven to establish itself as a producer of goat cheese. In fact, I have seen on a close team how difficult and how demanding it is, and how steadfast a person must be if one is to manage to accomplish such a thing. It's only the most steadfast of those who try, who can do it, because it's year after year with resistance in the bureaucracy that's totally formidable. That's why we have to do something on the legislative side that makes people who want to get something in District Norway have more chance of doing it. It is an important task for the Council of State to address. Then I want to get into another topic. When «safe food» was established some years ago, it went a while before the term became general. Today, safe food is something most of us talk about. Another concept we should introduce now is what is called short-range food. The food we eat today travels far – it travels across borders, and it travels far in Norway. Perhaps «safe food» and «short-range food» should be terms that we should strive against. I have been and looked at the slaughter of rein – I have been to a mobile slaughterhouse many times – and to me it is incomprehensible that you cannot slaughter sheep in the same way. Why is it not possible to take the sheep down from the mountain and slaughter it in the same way that we slaughter pure, and also other types of animals, instead of stowing them into cars and driving them long distances? They get stressed, meat quality goes down, it's said, and animal welfare is at least being tested. Why is it important what Rudihagen addresses? I think it's important for several reasons, first of all what I said: animal welfare. I think animal welfare is one theme. The other is about food quality. The third thing is about getting more of the value creation in District Norway of the raw materials that we have. The fourth is that there is a need for more exciting, more versatile goods at the store. There I think we have a special challenge in relation to the chains and in relation to the shops. It's not just easy to get into the stores today with special products. This is partly difficult because you have to be a member of a chain, and you have to be a very large producer many times in order to get at all and become part of the product spectrum to the chain. That's why I think it's also an important task to work up the chains in this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e301	The representative Torstein Rudihagen saw an important theme on the agenda with his interpellation today about the Value Creation Program. Traditionally, much of the value creation in agriculture has been done on the garden itself, but industrialisation and modernisation eventually moved the value creation into the food industry. Now we see a trend towards more demand for a local speciality garden product, and there is a willingness in the market to pay more for products that are special and that a knows where they come from. This is gratifying, and it is important that authorities take up the challenge and facilitate this trend to increase revenue for those who run the garden. It is crucial here that the framework conditions are in place to exploit these new trends in the market, and that at least a sympathizer to ensure that a rigid regulatory framework does not put unnecessary obstacles in the way of farmers who want to think new and creatively in their value creation. It is clear that the principle of food safety must be established. At the same time, I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture will focus on finding solutions so that the legislation is not practiced more strictly than is necessary to ensure the goal of safe food. When EEA legislation opens up to having less extensive requirements for small enterprises which are traded in a restricted geographical area, it is important that Norway benefit from this opening in several areas. It's already given an opening for pure in this way, and it's good that the department assesses the corresponding arrangements for poultry, farmed game and rabbit. I have some experience with rabbit slaughter for private use, but only for private use, which is allowed. I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture indicates that he will follow up the work of the Value Creation Programme for Food. Competence is also very important for those who are involved in small-scale processing. The work on empowerment planned under the Value Creation Programme is therefore important if we are to close down the objective of more of the value creation being done on the garden. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Agriculture will place great emphasis on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e315	The issues raised by the interpellant during today's debate are important, and I think it is positive that we have a debate in the Stortingen around them. In many contexts in this room, the centre has just arranged for one to provide space and space for small-scale operations, and for one to open up to different modes of operation. The debate we have today gives us hope that it will be possible to achieve greater support for the proposals that we have previously promoted and the views that have been expressed in the past by this Parliament on the very possibility of local variation. There is no doubt that there is a handicap to agriculture when, on the one hand, one says that one will invest in a value creation programme and niche production, while the same type of production will be complicated by detailed rules throughout the production process. The basis for the detailed legislation – we should also be clear – is the adaptation to the EEA Agreement. But it is also good, I think, that so many in the room today signal that one is willing to look with more open eyes and more nuanced on the underlying EEA legislation. There's a question that has multiple pages. One is the regulation itself, which is very detailed and partly rigid. However, there are also rules in this area that have not been changed in the last seven to eight years but are being practised more and more rigorously, thus creating increased uncertainty both in producers and not least in small slaughterhouses. One simply does not know what to do from one time to the next, because the authorities practice the legislation more stringently for each time. This is an uncertainty that one should be without. The centre party, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has previously agreed that instead of detailing the production process, one should control the final product. I agree that one should be sure that Norwegian food is safe food and that that safety should not be compromised, but the three batches have said that instead of controlling the process, one should check the final product. This is done for a number of quality products in the EU area, and we should also have the opportunity to do so. I'd like to challenge the Council of State a little bit as to whether he could imagine following up what he's been doing in this area with the Central Party and the Christian People's Party about earlier in Stortinget. I also have a certain sense of what Ryan says about short-range food, because it is clear that the centralisation you see in cooperatives and transport will also lead to centralisation of production and thus also increase the pressure to get larger producers. It's unfortunate, and I think there's a lot of good reasons to think "short-range food". In general, Norwegian agricultural policy outlines whether to continue a trend towards equalisation or to encourage diversity in agriculture, niche production and also good basic production, small producers and large producers. And I have to say that the Minister of Agriculture still seems to have a long way to go in encouraging diversity rather than equalization, not least in the light of the statements he has made recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e332	I think it is very important that this matter has come up as an interpellation, but it may seem that the solution is too far away from what is needed by the industry. In northern Norway, there is today a debate on the impact of the increasing demands for profitability for slaughterhouses and the need for rationalisation in its wake. In this context, the challenges in the northern part of the country are much greater than in the rest of the country, because the distance between use and slaughterhouse and consumers is so great. The responsibilities of the Gilde Nord-Norges Saleslag exceed half the length of Norway. When the distance between use and slaughterhouse is the same as this, we are faced with the question of whether the long transport of animals is in line with good animal welfare. We have a high standard of animal welfare and animal ethics in this country, and Norwegian agriculture has also lived up to that. This dilemma puts industry in a very difficult position, which, in its ultimate consequence, could threaten the whole of this important district industry in some geographical areas of the country. That's why I think of the Value Creation Program as a rescue, but then we have to have a code that makes it possible to produce and process the meat locally. Without changing the legislation, we will not be able to take advantage of the opportunities available in the districts for the production of small scale local niche products, which consumers will obviously have. Of course, we're still going to have strong demands on food quality, as it's been said here today, but I can't see any kind of contradiction here. I also see this in the light of what the majority of Stortinges said about North Norway in the attitude of the last agricultural message. Here it said, among other things. that it must: «emphasises the overall contribution of the instruments to maintaining a strong agricultural environment and to maintaining their relative share of production and processing as at present. This is also important for the protection and preparedness of animals».
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e344	Norwegian dry fish and Italian parmesan cheese would never have been approved if EU requirements had been met. But even though the birds fly freely over the dry fish shelves, which are made of wood, the product is good. We all know that. In the small dairies in Italy that produce parmesan cheese, they are not so careful about hygiene. The good bacteria kill the bad ones, they're their delivery gel. All tests show it's true. This is fresh meal, and it's been tested and used around the world for 100 years. I'm talking about some of the best paid products. They take care of traditions, and there's excellent food, which people ask for. The mating machine matures on wooden panels, because it has always been done that way, and the mold layer today is as thick during the process as it has been constantly. But the final product is absolutely amazing. With us, wood is banned in dairies, slaughterhouses and fishing facilities. And a few years ago, we struggled with the question of whether or not 100 small fish receptions were to be closed because all the wood had to be replaced, despite the fact that there are research results that show that the bacteria thrive worse in wood than anywhere else. We have to think new and learn from the experience of what has proved to be good. It is more important than the detailed rules that someone has invented. No one has yet been able to find out why it has become so important to ban wood in the food industry. Especially in the case of traditional foods, where we have long experience, it has to be taken into account, and then make demands that it is the finished product that will be good enough. Then the process gets to be the way it's always been. This said the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Center parties when we dealt with the new marking system for agricultural products last May. We encouraged the Government to base that principle on the work ahead when it came to traditional food. Now it seems that the Workers' Party has agreed to this, and that is very good. Right, the Progress Party and SV also express themselves this way, despite the fact that they were not on the note that we discussed rather eagerly less than a year ago. Local production has the environmental benefits, because we avoid the long transport, we avoid the burden on the animals, and we take care of our housing. I also think it should be stressed so much that it should be financially stimulated for more of the local production.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e357	There is reason to listen when a former saying from Gudbrandsdalen calls for increased value creation in the countryside. Then I choose to listen. Too many of those in our country who take part in this debate on food production and processing, trace off, and it's been easy to deal with price only. I also refer to what is now happening in our neighbouring country Sweden, where studies show that there are significant differences in food prices along the Norwegian border and in Stockholm. In fact, there are significantly higher prices in the Swedish capital than in the Norwegian border. If this debate is to have an opinion, the status of primary Norwegian production must first be established. In my opinion, it is like this: when it applies to meat, e.g. from cattle and pigs, each animal is marked all while it is still in booths and bins. This provides security, and it is the best starting point for further processing. At the same time, it allows you to track it. We have all implemented strict hygiene and water quality requirements. These are instructions that have cost us dearly, for example. The water quality, but it's going to be an advantage over what we're talking about here with local processing. When it comes to processing in Norway, there has been a significant development of new products in recent years. It's enough to mention Tine's many quality products, which in addition have received prizes for creative marketing. Another example is the pizza from Stabburet, which is produced on Stranda. All of this is based on Norwegian livestock products. Small-scale agriculture is, as we also know, Norway's advantage and our starting point in the WTO. It is important that a better ratio of use with several species on the individual garden. This, together with local processing opportunities, will provide a basis for more use to survive in this country. Today's state councils are opening up a more pragmatic approach to local initiatives. It is good and in line with the signals given by the nutrition committee in the previous period. In my opinion, the idea of certification on a line of injecting certificates, which one already has in agriculture, seems promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e370	I thought that during this hour we have received many important and good impressions in an important area – as many have underlined. I would also like to say that I think the Council of State has done a clear presentation of the work that is being done in the department. But there has to be results, and they have to come as an attempt to simplify without four on the requirement of food quality. In that case, we must take on board Norwegian conditions and our own competence, experience and insight in the design of the legislation. Then we get to argue for it towards the European Union. Reasons must be allowed to rule. And that's what I asked for in my first post, that when a person just refers to an EU law and refuses well-founded applications without even having evaluated them professionally, there is no sense in it. This must also apply to mobile slaughterhouses. It is also a little strange – to underline it – that good arrangements for the control of game meat cannot be used for livestock meat. There must be a way in and try to open up, if there is then no technical evidence that this goes beyond the requirement of food quality. And so far I haven't seen it. The councils were concerned that it is necessary to create a positive, matching culture on the part of the government, and I agree with that. But, as Bendiks Arnesen says, the solution may be a little far away. In addition, we need to look at the legislation. We have to try to bring down the cost of nutritionists as far as we can. We don't have to kill initiatives, action-oriented, that we use through the value-creating program over 100 million. kr per year to stimulate. There must be a wholeness in our policy. The debate seemed to me to show in many ways a common attitude towards common objectives of all the representatives of different parties who have spoken here. That would be fine for the Council of State. He has the Stortinget with the aim of simplifying the legislation, providing guidance to ensure that supervision is as adequate as possible and that it is based on an appropriate interpretation of EU legislation. In any case, my clear conclusion is that it should be open to those who have applied for a mobile slaughterhouse, as long as it is professionally defended, good projects. I hope that this debate will lead to a little pressure from the Council of State on that work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e381	First, at the end of this interpellation debate, let me congratulate the interpellant on raising a topic that has aroused interest and wide-ranging debate. It's not all the interpellations that get so much participation and attention, and that's what I think serves the interpellant in honor. I think that's important, because in many ways the kind of thinking that lies in these questions we're discussing today – greater diversity, the right to use action spaces on the individual farm and around the countryside to do other things and more things than what has been tradition – is a new way of thinking about agriculture and rural development. There is in many ways a settlement with the very many and many of the parties, perhaps all, who sit in the hall, have stood for a more monolithic and plan-driven, plan-based agricultural policy and food production. It's something new. It's a diversity. It's okay to succeed. It's okay to do it well. Those who are the most capable must be allowed to have armsstrokes succeed in doing new things. Several speakers, both from the Workers' Party and the Right and Hedstrom, have just addressed this, the need to revitalise agriculture. To cultivate the cremation spirit, I think Gaundal said, and that's an expression I myself use a lot. The cremator gene has to go up again. We've been hiding it in Norwegian agriculture for a generation or two. We have a liberal slogan that says that whoever makes people small can't expect anything big. Norwegian horticulture has made Springlord relatively small by nature, but agricultural policy has also made them quite small. The peasants are not proud enough of their products. They are not proud enough of the possibilities to get things done, they know that they can be entrepreneurs and can do more than what it might have been done from a model farm thinking and all this more planned economic agricultural thinking. Here, new thinking is required, and I feel that is in this debate in a strong way. It's a new time, and it's a good time. I also want to say that it's absolutely crucial, as everyone says, that we're not going to go on chords with safe food. But it doesn't just have to be a floss, because it's a struggle that has to be won every day. We got a waker a few months ago with some cheese that was produced locally and small in Sogn, and where life almost went. It testifies that the fight for safe food is a daily battle of skilled professionals and a code that is adapted and suitable for conducting that fight. We must not believe that it creates itself. It is absolutely essential that this be done. But at the same time, we think, I'm absolutely convinced of it, and I'm glad that the Stortinge share that perception, too, that it's possible to combine that kind of attitude, that kind of regulation, to make it easier to succeed with small scale production. The more concrete things I will have the opportunity to come back to. I agree with the interpellant that the results must come. In the case of mobile slaughterhouses, as I know, the heart of the interpellant is very close, and concrete matters from his home country, it is such that we are now implementing a fine-tuning of the legislation of the State Food Authority. I also expect that there will be some anchors on some specific questions, which we will of course deal with in a proper way in the light of the new information we can manage to get through the review of the legislation we have. Thank you for the debate, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-22.ana.ud411e396	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
