ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e28	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen and Morten Højlund, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e42	On behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to make a proposal to abolish the compulsory housing scheme for all-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e47	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e50	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Kenneth Svendsen, Øystein Hedstrøm and myself, make proposals for changes to the fall-back regime so that power plants in private ownership and power plants in public ownership are equated with the concession period, and that the works are sold to the maximum bidder after the concession period has expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e55	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e58	I would like, on behalf of myself, to make proposals to change the tax regime when transferring from the joint to the sole proprietorship so that the buyer is no longer taxed for a non-real sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e63	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e66	On behalf of the representatives of Morten Lund, Synnøve Konglevoll, Torny Pedersen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Olav Gunnar Ballo, Per Erik Monsen, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to propose that energy supplied from alternative energy sources such as district heating, biofuels and heat pumps in the VAT law be treated equally with electricity in order to avoid distortions of competition in Finnmark, Troms and Nordland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e72	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e77	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e82	I propose Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e87	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Anne Berit Andersen are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Anne Berit Andersen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e110	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen Councillor Lars Sponheim Councillor Kristin Klemet The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e129	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said to Dagbladet on 16 March that an EU application from Iceland is really one of the factors that will change the situation for Norway. And he added: ‘We follow developments closely.’ The Labour Party, as is well known, has provided in its electoral programme the opportunity to re-analyse the situation once the EU enlargement has really begun. If it can also include Iceland, of course this will underline the need to have such freedom of action. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister what freedom of action the Government has in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e141	It is clear that on the European scene important things will happen in the future. It is very important to be open about the change factors in European policy. Of course, the government is fully prepared to be fully open about all the changes that are taking place. And that's the background that I've spoken for myself, among other things. on the relationship with Iceland both in the interview that Thorbjørn Jagland mentions, and also on the Dayrevy yesterday, because I see it as one of the important developments on the European scene. However, when it comes to the conclusion to be drawn in this area, it is well known that the Government consists of three parties with different visions for European issues. My party has e.g. a much clearer relationship with Europe than that of the Thorbjørn Jagland Party, while the other two parties have a different profile of their European policies than we have. But since Thorbjørn Jagland did not ask questions about the operational grips, but on being open about the process, I would just say that of course we should be open about the developments that are on the European stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e148	I am familiar with what is the basis of the Government, and fully respect it. I am also pleased with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now saying about being completely open to the processes that are going on. But my question is: what is the possibility for the Government to launch a new analysis of this issue — perhaps by the end of this enlargement period, when the EU enlargement is actually underway and perhaps Iceland will join in a future enlargement, which will, of course, significantly change the situation for our fisheries? Does the government have the ability to be something more than open and follow along? Does it have the possibility to initiate a new analysis and review that could possibly lead to the promotion of a new application either at the end of this period or most likely during the next majorisation period?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e153	What is the point of intersection in the Sem Declaration is the actual submission of an application, because it is clear that our cooperation with Europe is on the basis of the Government defined as the EEA Agreement, our agreement on Europol, Schengen and the ESDP, and that it is not part of the Government's policy to seek membership of the EU. But that does not mean that we cannot follow and analyse and see the trends in European policy. But the point of intersection is on the operational grip that had to come. I understand that Thorbjørn Jagland's business is no more than the open debate and seeing what is actually going on, and I don't see that there can be any kind of problem in that area. That's why I've also been quite bold in my assessments of what's now happening on Iceland, and that's probably a fact base that many might need, including Thorbjørn Jagland's party, if I understood correctly what was said on the radio this morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e160	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e163	It is a rather strange situation that a poll in our neighbouring country Iceland has launched an EU debate, or a debate on Norwegian membership, in Norway. Because it is difficult to see that anything has changed in Norway’s relationship with the EU, based on an opinion polling in Iceland. What I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that the current government does not intend to send an application for Norwegian membership during this period, and that this government insists that it does not intend to plan the preparation of an application for Norwegian membership during this period. The debate that is now being debated by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is very difficult to understand, and it is also obvious that his own party does not fully agree with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But leave it. This government has very clearly stated in the Sem Declaration that it is not preparing an application, and I would like this confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e172	I can confirm that. And I understand that Djupedal will then watch over the Sem statement – I hope he does it in a different context than what we are talking about now. However, I will not, like him, be so surprised that developments in Iceland are of great interest, because there is a majority in the people to examine the relationship with the European Union more closely, and make Iceland clear that it will have implications for Norway and Norwegian business interests that we are obliged to follow. At the same time, I would like to stress that I think some of the debate in the last few days has taken off, far beyond what is really the basis for it. Because even if Iceland were to reorient itself, it's a very, very long process we're facing, and it's in no way given that it's going to be a reorientation. But that there are debates and that there is openness, I think that is quite clear. And I've been very clear on one thing, the fact that the Government is made up of parties with different visions for their connection to Europe. So the only way, at my discretion, to deal with the different starting points is for Norway and the Government to be completely open to the dilemmas and the issues we face. And I want to be completely open about European dilemmas and issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e180	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e183	It is not always so easy to keep track of when the party leader in the Right is speaking, and when it is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other government councils have contributed to creating uncertainty about what is the Government's policy. At Troms' meeting, the Minister for Fisheries has said that the population should be reduced to EU membership. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said yesterday at Dagsrevyen that the final question in the EU fight, the negotiations, was to be taken only when one had the chance to win. Is this in line with the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e188	I don't think Enoxen has or should have any problem hearing the difference when I express myself as a party leader and manage the vision that stands in the Right Program, and when I express myself on the compromise that the Sem statement at this point is. I've just put a lot of emphasis on being open about this so you can see where the process has been, from a party program to an agreement in Sem. And there's the agreement that I've confirmed to Djupedal, and that's what Enoch knows very well. If the EU case should again appear and it should be relevant to send an application, then it is clear – I just have to say – that the government parties will look differently on EU issues as the current basis is. We've also been completely open about that, and it's been clearly ever since Sem. Therefore, when I, as a party leader – if Enoxsen did not perceive it, I can tell him – said that if the matter is to be raised again in the form of an application, it must be at a time when it is possible to get it to. But it's like a party leader I'm saying this, and I've said this many, many times, and I see this as an opportunity to repeat a message that I'm absolutely sure that the Enoch has actually understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e197	Haakon Blankenburg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e200	The reason why the discussion about Iceland has emerged is not a poll in Iceland, but that central politicians there, among others. the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has come with very clear statements when it comes to EU issues. Similarly, this question hour is used to determine the position of the Norwegian government. As I understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs – and I ask that it be confirmed or that this understanding is correct – the Norwegian Government is ready to re-open the EU issue if there are significant changes about us in terms of fishing and in relation to Iceland. I also understand that no application will be sent during this period, that an application may be sent after the next choice, but that the government, as it is now, can theoretically prepare such an application. In other words, one will not sit silently and see that others provide the dish.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e207	I have to point out here the answer I gave to the representative, Mr Djupedal, that it is not the government's policy to prepare an EU application. But, of course, it is always important to know what is going on on on the European stage — be open to the processes and analyse what is going on both within the EU and in individual Member States. So in the Sem statement, there's nothing leading up to membership. This I think I made quite clear when I answered the Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e214	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e217	I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly states that it is not appropriate to send a new application for membership during this large-scale period. At the same time, I think – like the representative Øystein Djupedal – that the attention given to the polling in Iceland is considerably exaggerated. What should be important for the Government now is to safeguard our interests related to the EEA Agreement. The challenges here are great, and if you wait for enlargement, you have to carry out a ratification process in 25 Member States. As I understand it, the Commission has not received a common position from the EFTA side. Will the Government ensure that a joint position from EFTA is established, in order to start an upgrade or update of the EEA Agreement as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e226	I'm not quite sure what Høglund's question applies. There are two issues out here and going here. One is the request for an update of the EEA Agreement. The EU has made this quite clear – among others. When the Energy Commissioner was in Oslo – that they are not going to address this relationship on this side of enlargement. Commissioner Patten has also made it clear along the same lines. In the preliminary discussions on this subject, the EU position has been very clear. Another issue – which I think Høglund has been concerned with quite a number of times in the previous Questionnaires – is: What do we do with regard to the abolition of free trade arrangements in the candidate countries in relation to fish? There is a problem that we must try to get the country before the EU expands, and we are now working – as I mentioned earlier for Høglund – to prepare the positions for. But the very important issue of substance that relates to fish is what is of primary interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e233	Then we leave Iceland in this round. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e238	The Minister of Agriculture’s report that Kari and Ola Nordmann are working in Sweden has created waves not only in Norway but in many Western European countries. And his statement that it's the wrong exercise to dress up, travel across the border and save some ears on the sausages, has provoked Kari and Ola Østfolding – I know that, I'm even eastfolding. I believe that the Minister of Agriculture's intention to play out – from his point of view – is good, namely to get Kari and Ola to continue to act as closely as possible in Norway. But the result has become something else. This has been a huge marketing of Swedish shops, and I expect that we are in front of Norway's largest Swedish trade – with a high harry factor. So my question to the state council is, does he regret his play? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e246	The President will point out that it is beginning to be difficult to keep track of the names here – it is getting worse. But if the Minister of Agriculture wants to reveal who this Harry really is, then... [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e249	In any case, President, the first name of the Minister of Agriculture is Lars. I must begin my answer by wishing the representative Hedstrom a good Easter in Eastfold – as Easter will take place in a few days – and express my opinion that it is good that we visit our neighbours. And I hope and believe that those who do have an experience or a pleasure in doing it – besides shopping cheap food and maybe earn a few dollars if you have a short way and a low price on its time. I think this debate has helped to see the size of Swedish food trade in a slightly correct perspective. Norway’s large food chains on the Eastfold side of the Swedish border tell me that they have a significant growth in their food turnover. The central cheap chains say that they have up to two-digit percentage increases in their turnover, and that the size of this so-called problem of Swedish trade is strongly exaggerated. Perhaps we could also help politicians to see this in its proper context. It is nice to visit the neighbours, and I hope that the experiences are related to more than just buying food that costs a little less. But of course, it is completely legitimate — and up to the individual to make a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e260	Øystein Hedstrøm, on behalf of Kari and Ola – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e263	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When Swedish merchants saw the Norwegian state budget for the current year, they celebrated – with rocket launch and champagne. New malls are still being built. A giant «China-town» is planned on the Swedish side. And lately we haven't been able to open a newspaper without reading about bowing meat dishes we barely see in Norway, about thousands of copies of Harry's and about the good quality of Swedish food. Even neutral MATFORSK chose Sweden to have far more thin outer fillets than what we have in Norway. [[Laughter]] So it's no wonder that Swedish merchants rub their hands and wait for the flow of Kari and Ola's Northmen to cross the border. Does not the Council of State think that with his play, he has done Norwegian farmers and Norwegian food production a bear service?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e272	I maintain what I have said, that the extent and problems of the so-called Swedish trade in food, and in particular meat, are no greater than the fact that Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food retailers live well with this. They say that themselves, and they say about sales growth on the Norwegian side of the Swedish border. But there is no doubt that the Swedish trade in food and demand from Norway is a special phenomenon also in Sweden. I will answer a question later today in the ordinary questioning session of the same representative on the same questions. In that answer, I'm going to say that the typical border trade goods average 25-40 pst. below equivalent prices longer within Sweden. I'm going to bring you a single sample of 110 pst. cheaper at the Swedish border than longer within the country. This is a special phenomenon. How long it will last, we don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e279	The President will suggest that when we come back to the question later today, there will be an increase in the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e282	It might be attractive for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e287	The president also noticed that the representative Hedstrøm said that rockets were being fired on the Swedish side of the border along with champagne. It must be with respect to report the champagne.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e290	I share the President's view, but that's not the government's official view.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e295	There's what's known as three games. There will be follow-up questions – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e300	I believe that part of this debate contains important, serious agricultural policy issues. Last time Lars Sponheim was the Council of State, he agreed to make St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, Norwegian agriculture and food production. It says the following: «In the light of general consumer interests and developments in border trade, the Government considers that the differences in consumer prices between Norway and our neighbouring countries should be reduced.» My question to the government council Sponheim today is whether Minister of Agriculture Sponheim believes the same thing as Minister of Industry Sponheim meant in the central government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e317	Yes, I do, and it is also stated in the Sem Declaration, which underlies this government. The most important thing that has happened in the last year, and as the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen knows well, is the halving of the food tax that happened from 1 July last year, which has contributed to our getting a lower price level, approx. 10 pst. Unfortunately, currency developments have been such that the Norwegian krona has become so strong that in the short term the effect of this seems to have been eaten up by the difference in crowns. Equally full is the price 10 pst. lower than they would otherwise have been, and that has been an important contribution. I think it's important to get there. Of the food prices that the Norwegian consumer meets in the store today, approx. one third the Norwegian primary producer, the farmer. The other two thirds fall into the middle of each other. I want to work to continue the work of the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen as Minister of Agriculture, by holding pressure on all sides of these links to ensure that we are able to keep a minimum price level in Norway. But because of our cost level in Norway, prices will always be higher in Norway than our competitors around us want. So it's geographically and climatically determined.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e328	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e331	I think it is basically a pity for the important debate on the future of agriculture that the debate is reduced to the kind of slogan that several debaters have used. In particular, it is a pity that the Council of State is able to introduce itself to that gallie, because the Council of State is responsible for the agricultural debate and the interests of agriculture. In this way, it is clear that the Harry stamp is not lucky. I don't think it's lucky for a debate on an industry that's facing very big challenges in the years to come, where people on average make far less of the work they do than many of us do. In a debate on agriculture, it's natural that people are concerned both with price and quality, and it doesn't matter whether a person is either concerned with price or quality. My question is quite simply: does the Minister of Agriculture not see that his statements and the subsequent somewhat morbid debate are damaging to the important debate on the future of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e340	I think, above all, that it is important to get a debate and attention on the issue of food prices and the special assumptions we have in perhaps one of the most difficult countries in the world to produce land-based food, in which we have in Norway. That debate has been going on for a few weeks now. I think that behind a part of this noise that some people raise very much, and as I think is far exaggerated and taken out of its context, there is a core of seriousness, because agriculture and Norwegian food chains have in some way been forced to play on a track half where they are doomed to lose, exclusively on the track half. But it has a lot to contribute to other parts of the track that are about quality, diversity, purity, animal welfare, etc., on which we can be best in the world. And fortunately, as we see in today's MMI measurement, as NHO has done, that's over 50 pst. of the Norwegian people are actually willing to pay more for Norwegian food, to bring with them all the other and important values that Norwegian food production represents. It's an agricultural minister very happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e347	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e350	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research. One feature among many in recent times is an indication that one will increase transfers to private schools. You want to increase the grant from 85 pst, as it is today, to 90 pst. This implies an increase of approximately 6 pst. in grants to private schools in relation to current grants. This is only operating grants. In addition, it is also suggested that one should increase the grant for rent etc., so overall there is a rather dramatic increase in transfers to private schools. Overall, 6 pst. This is due to an increase of approx. One hundred million. My question to the Minister of Education is: Is the main priorities for education in the future, to increase the grant by 6 pst, over 100 million. kr, to private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e359	This question concerns a proposal which the Government has not yet promoted, but which I can confirm that the Government will promote. Over Easter we will present a consultation proposal for the law on independent schools, and later we will promote a bill for the Stortinget, probably for the autumn. It's a follow-up to the Sem statement. The government has also decided that we will follow up the Sem declaration on the issue of increasing support for private schools. That means we're going to incorporate rent expenses into the grant base and increase the grant rate from 85 to 90. Let me just say one thing in relation to the media debate that has gone. This is not about commercial schools or wallet schools or any wallet community. The establishment of commercial schools in Norway is not prohibited today. This can be done relatively easily by obtaining approval under the Training Act. What the Private School Act is about, which is actually a grant law, is which of the private schools should be eligible for grants, and the purpose of granting grants is that it is not just the wallet to decide whether to go to these schools. We want the excesses to be small, as primary school in Norway is tax financed. It is of minor importance whether it is the public undertaking the work or whether it is the private undertaking of the work. In order for the proportion to be small, and for everyone in practice also to have real access to participate in these private schools, we want to increase the grant. But that means that those students who leave a public school and go to a private school, they bring with them less than 100 pst. of the expenditure used per year. student at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e368	It should just be missing that it was 100 pst. They have completely different tasks than the public have. Public authorities have extra tasks in addition to what they have in private. I can follow up. If we think that the public schools would get an increase of 6 pst. in its operating budgets, it would involve approximately: 5 billion more to public schools. So if they were to get the exact same increase in the grant, 6 pst., from 85 to 90 pst., that would mean that public schools would get about. 5 billion more in increased operating costs. When the Council of State now says that it is the private schools that are to have this increase, it is clear that there is a clear priority in it that it is the private schools that must be given priority over the public. My supplementary question is: Is it that the private schools are in a more difficult economic situation than the public schools, which now make the Council of State say that they should have an increase in operating expenditure of 6 p.m., approx. One hundred million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e379	The President has some problems with the percentage here, as far as an increase from 85 to 90 pst. and an increase from 100 to 106 pst. can't be the exact same thing. But the President assumes that the Minister of Education can clear up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e382	I think the question is a little bit sought after. The point is that all students go to primary school, but they don't go to more than one school at a time. So if a student stops going to a public school and goes to a private school, under this grant scheme, this student will take the expenses associated with a student in primary school, but not 100 pst. So far, this student has got 85 pst. of the operating costs. We want to go into a system where they get 90 pst. on a slightly extended grant basis. The grant basis is based on the average level of expenditure in public schools. And yes, private schools may have financial problems. As the private school law is today, and as we want it to be in the future, it is not an opportunity to use the state grant to have commercial operations. You can't take out any dividends, and there's no way you can take a high proportion of dividends. You can only take it in proportion that is missing after receiving this state subsidy, and that will be about. 10 pst. once again, if we increase the grant rate to 90. I think this is a little bit of a problem, because students don't go to two schools at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e391	There will be follow-up questions – Vidar Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e395	In the context of the launched proposal on the freeing of private schools, we see the outcome of the Christian People's Party's wish for a number of schools for Christian environments and the Higher Right's more ideological crusades for the privatisation of public schools. On the sideline, the Progress Party applauds. The Clemet Council has supported the proposal for a diversity-based release, but that must be the true opposite. With diversity, the Workers' Party actually perceives the common school we have today, as a common meeting place for everyone, regardless of the background, while the opening of private schools is actually a greater possibility for sorting. Clemet has been very good at pointing out shortcomings in public school, but at the same time she has also expressed that the public school actually has enough resources, perhaps too much resources. Then it is very disappointing that she uses the first opportunity to point out the transfer of funds to private schools that are still not there, rather than strengthening the public school that is for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e404	I have to repeat: this is a full opportunity in Norway — it has never been prohibited, I know — to establish private schools. Anyone can set up private schools if you get an approval under the Training Act, and that is a relatively curative matter. Then you can set up a private school. You can do it commercially, you can take as much school money as you like. Fortunately, I would say, there is a relatively marginal, almost non-existent, phenomenon in Norway at primary school level. At secondary level, there is a much more well-known phenomenon. There are many schools – which do not even need approval – that are commercial. The private school law, which we are talking about changing to a law on independent schools, is a law that does not regulate access to private schools but regulates access or the possibility of getting state aid. So far, it has been confined to schools that have been based on a particular outlook on life and ethics, alternative pedagogics and/or good mood of the Council of State. I can't see why this should be a privilege for the few who can join the Steiner pedagogy or the Montessori pedagogy. We want access to State aid to be based on quality and content requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e411	The President would point out that the good mood of the Council of State must belong to the non-statutory part.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e414	It's actually almost legal, because the room for discretion in the private school law is so big that it varies a lot. It's a pretty -- what to say -- arbitrary discretion that happens, depending on it at all times, the state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e419	That was an explanation. Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e424	At least we'll have a good feeling about the advances that come from the government to open the private school law. However, it becomes even more important that we treat all students in equal treatment, whether they go to public school or in an approved private school. At the same time as the mood increases, we are also increasingly impatient with regard to equal treatment for students. We are gradually on the way to a non-discrimination principle in the kindergarten sector where we are equalising private and public drivers. We also want full equal treatment and equality in the education sector. Why won't the government give students such equal treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e429	In the first place, we want to liberalize the private school law and change it so that more people can receive grants when they create private schools, so as to prevent us from getting a wallet school. We're doing it based on emphasising that it's the parents who are responsible for their children's education and their children's training. We put emphasis on parental exposure. I think increasing diversity in school can lead to increased quality. We know that the most important segregation factor in school today is residence. We also know that many live in homogeneous living environments, and those that have the best chance of moving are probably the ones that are resource-rich. So establishing independent schools and choosing it will also be a handshake for so-called weak students. I agree with what Mr Sortevik indirectly refers to, namely that public schools should also be given greater freedom to adapt and improve. This can be achieved through many types of actions — greater local freedom of action, free choice of school, other financial instruments. The government is also investigating that kind of question, but in the first place, we want to change the private school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e438	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e441	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. A survey that the Council of State pointed to in a previous response shows that more than half of us are willing to pay more to maintain a viable agriculture and rural settlement. There is a great deal of willingness to support rural agriculture. At the same time, an investigation by the Ministry of Finance, as reported in the Evening Post, shows that precisely rural agriculture will lose if a so-called dairy stock exchange is introduced, i.e. marketable milk quotas. The Ministry of Finance believes that the State can save DKK 3 to 4 billion on this. They want to double the size of dairy farms in Norway, and there is a lot of evidence that smaller farms will be closed down, that large ones will grow, and that there will be loss in the West and North Norway. The question is whether the Minister of Agriculture shares the view expressed in the Ministry of Finance on the dairy market – he has previously thought that today’s use is too small – and whether the Government is prepared to ensure that a dairy market is introduced, with the result that many small uses are abandoned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e450	There is no doubt that we are in a period of time — and it has been a few years now — where major structural changes have taken place in Norwegian agriculture. Last night I saw figures showing that in about ten years we have halved the number of cereals in Norway. It's a situation that has a lot of speed, regardless of how we now had to consider changing aspects of agricultural policy. What's special about the situation we're in now is that a lot of dairy farming is in the situation that now needs to be reinvested because very much of the operating capital of milk production was built up at the end of the 1970s. This means that in the next ten years there will have to be a huge amount of money in Norwegian milk production to support a Norwegian milk production. Today's quota system, which we have now had for almost 20 years, has made it difficult for individuals who want to build a new one to build on an economic basis, because it is a general knowledge of the agricultural economy that one has to increase production somewhat in order to defend increased costs. This means that almost only large co-operative solutions are being built. It is structuralisation around the district of Norway – a consequence of today's system. What we are moving towards the agricultural negotiations is – without having taken a position on it by the Government – what we are going to do to create a system where it is possible for the individual farmer, who currently has a production of 8, 10, 12, 14 cows, who need to build a new one, to obtain a slightly higher production volume in order to defend slightly higher production costs. I believe that there should also be a basis for individual producers and single farmers to be dairy producers in the future, not just large cooperative solutions, in which we see it being invested in today, although it is also good where there is a natural solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e466	For those who had to believe that agriculture did not change, it is reassuring to know that agriculture has a constant change and an improvement in efficiency. It has to be in line with what many people think is right. But the problem here is that there is something that can be a planned change in the structure of agriculture and that can be dramatic for the whole milk production if it is implemented. The government's challenge is that we have to make a choice: either the government has to go in favour of a dairy stock exchange – then one has to rely on the Progress Party in the agricultural policy, which means a liquidation of rural agriculture, and there is no doubt that it will mean that several thousand of our 20,000 dairy farms have to be laid down – or one can go against, and then has the support of the other parties in the Stortinget. That option must be taken by the Government. And my question is really, what choice does the government intend to make in this context? There are many other ways of increasing the profitability of milk producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e476	There is no doubt that we are facing a situation where there will be – and where there will be a need – moderate structural development in milk production. It's down in St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 as the central government in its time delivered the Stortinget. The policies that this government stands for are rooted in a policy that the representative Marit Arnstad in his time as the Council of State was in the process of falling down. We're going to do that to the best of our ability to try to do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e481	There will be follow-up questions – Aud Gaundal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e484	I believe that the agreement in Stortinget is far-reaching, but I fully agree with him that we want to see a structural change in Norwegian agriculture. Now it is that small use is one place in the country to the extent that large use is elsewhere in the country. That's the way it's compounded with us. The starting point for the Workers' Party is that we can get into the situation that it is the richest who have the opportunity to buy – rich compared to a large farm, or one who has large incomes outside the farm. Does not Sponheim also see the danger that non-usual employee income will be what gives the opportunity to act, as we know that on average marginal incomes are small in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e495	I would first like to point out that the Government has not taken a decision on what a wish to present for the agricultural negotiations of the year should be. What the government is now continuously assessing is how we are going to be able to make the necessary assumptions for dairy farmers who are now totally dependent on investing in new operating capital to raise the volume of production. This is a relatively simple reasoning, because there's one big investment you make as a milk producer, and it's building a new building. That's what a lot of people want to do, and then you take on increased costs. A locked allowance system requires an increase in the cost of NOK 30000 to NOK 60000 per year without an equivalent increase in income. That's what many people aren't going to do. This will lead to dramatic structuralisation by choosing other work. Which means we want to use, we want to get back to. But we're looking for instruments that are adapted to the agricultural reality we're in, which are supposed to allow individual farmers to bet again, enable young farmers to take over and build up a dairy production practice, not just maintain a farm that's already in place, as we unfortunately see too much of it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e500	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e503	The milk sector is the most expensive, the sector that takes the majority of subsidies to agriculture. Despite this policy, which has been pursued for many years, we lose approx. 1 000 dairy farmers per year. We have 20,000 left. If we continue with this policy, there will not be many dairy farmers left in Norway in 20 years' time. Therefore, the Government and the Minister of Agriculture will receive the subsidiary support of the Progress Party for any liberalisation of milk sales. And why do we want to do that? – Yes, because we want dairy farmers in Norway to a certain extent in 20 years. We have to learn from the other Nordic countries. In the 1970s, farmers in the Nordic countries had about the same number of dairy cows. Denmark lay a little ahead. Five years ago, each farmer in Sweden had 30, in Denmark 60, and in Finland the number is increasing. Why can't we do the same thing in Sweden, dear councillor, so that an older farmer who wants to get rid of the quota can talk a little bit with his neighbor and then sell to him? If they do not agree on the price, you can put an ad in the paper to get better paid. Aren't we going to work for structuralisation so that we can get robust dairy farming in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e510	The President notes that the Swedish border has its own capacity to emerge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e513	It is today that milk producers can sell allowances. We have had several years with that situation, but sales go through the state. Some of the problem is, as I see it, that this is then distributed to those who are applying, with such a thin layer that it does not give a single farmer the opportunity to get so much that he can invest in a new operating appliance. That means that this grinder now paints in such a direction that many people have to go, because they don't have a device to push on. I am very much afraid that the policy now being pursued, with a very strict quota regulation and small opportunities to increase its production capacity through slightly increased milk quotas, will lead to a stronger structuralisation than to allow some producers to increase their volume and thus have a spread of milk production across the country in modern operating appliances. The exception today is the large cooperatives, and fortunately they have spread well throughout the country, because we, among other things, are. limits how allowances can be moved between states. I want it to continue to be possible in the future for individual manufacturers to invest and use the next 20-30 years of their life and their investment in this production.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e524	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e527	When I hear the Minister of Agriculture answering this question, I can conclude that the Minister of Agriculture believes that the dairy market will be a good tool to bring about a structural change in Norwegian agriculture. Let it be clear: it was never relevant in connection with St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 to introduce such an instrument. It would never have been appropriate for the Centre Party in the Central Government to accept an instrument that would result in as much structural change in Norwegian agriculture as a dairy stock market would add. I totally disagree with the Minister of Agriculture that this will be a good instrument. My question will then be brief: does the Minister of Agriculture share the views of the Ministry of Finance working group that a structural change from 14 to 25 cows could be a result of the introduction of a dairy stock exchange, and that this would result in a halving of the number of dairy farms in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e536	I am pleased that the representative of Enoxsen, the head of the Central Party, confirms that St.meld. No In fact, 19 measures a policy for a structural change in milk production that will be necessary. I will not be indiscriminate, but both the representative and I know well how these wordings came out just before the notification was delivered. What I've said, and I want to be very clear, is that I haven't notified what this is called stock exchange, i.e. the free movement of milk quotas between farmers, regardless of the state's intervention. I think that is a bad solution. I'm not going to work to promote that. In that case, there will be other and more politically entrenched schemes, but which may have elements of direct trade between farmers. This is what the Government will decide – the Government has not yet done – before we promote what will be the government's offer in the agricultural negotiations. Let me just say in general, and it's from general knowledge to the agricultural economy, that there are huge economies of scale in milk production. If you let this go, you're going to get huge pussy. It's easy to calculate that the economy is good in these very big solutions. It is not the government's policy, although we are in favour of moderate development and will thus strengthen the income base of Norwegian milk producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e546	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e549	I have a question without any Swedish borders, but to the same Council of State, the Minister of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture has reviewed the decision on the concession obligation on the beach property ‘Solvang’ on the Åland Islands outside Lillesand. This is a matter of a long history. It has been dealt with several times in municipal and municipal bodies, and whenever local and regional bodies have dealt with this matter, they have refused. The Ministry of Agriculture has also previously rejected the appeal on this matter. Now, the ministry has converted its own decision and thus transferred local democracy into a matter of very fundamental importance, which can have a strong precedent in this area. After his government statements in the media, this has happened without our orientation. So I have a question: Is it common for this kind of question to be dealt with in this way in the Ministry of Agriculture, that is, without the Council of State knowing what is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e560	Let me first say that I and the Ministry of Agriculture have received a letter from the Control and Constitutional Committee on this matter. A reply will be given in a few days' time, which will deal in a very thorough and thorough manner with the facts of the matter and will explain it to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. So to the facts of the matter: When this case was brought up again, it was on a completely new basis that was not pending before. This can be done, for example. not to say that one thing was meant in the Ministry of Agriculture before the government change and something else afterwards. The case has a new reality, namely that the applicant here demonstrated to the Ministry of Agriculture that the round of sales of all-year-old dwellings did not lead to a real selling price. The law is then such that there is a basis for reconsidering whether the concession obligation should be maintained. That is the assessment that has been made. The municipality itself has played a central role by saying to the ministry in a letter at the end of November last year that the highest bid given on this property was 2 million. kr. Another, rather parallel case shows the same thing as the municipality says, that 5 million. kr represents an acceptable price for an all-year dwelling on this island. We then found ourselves in a situation where someone is required to sell a property like this to a full-year residence without it being possible to get a full-year housing price based on the municipality's own figures. This is why the Ministry of Agriculture has used the law. Yesterday, a new letter came from the municipality, which shows that it is believed to be able to prove that this has been a higher bid – at least this is the case in retrospect. In the department we now assess whether there is a basis for a new treatment. In that case, we will assess whether the applicants, i.e. the seller and purchaser of this property, are getting a statement on this, and then we will decide if there is a basis for reopening the case. But let me stress again: I have assessed this on the basis of completely new realities and on a completely new legal basis compared to what has been treated in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e571	The debate following the new decision suggests that this issue cannot be as clear as the Minister of Agriculture has now indicated. Anyway, this wasn't even an attempt to answer my question. My question was whether these kind of fundamental questions, with great precedents in which one runs over local democracy, are being dealt with in the Ministry of Agriculture without involving the political leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e578	It is right, as I have said to the newspapers, that I did not know about this specific matter until I read about it in the newspapers. This does not mean that all the decisions taken in the Ministry of Agriculture are not my responsibility – so there is no big point. It's not our opinion that this has large principal sides. There is a specific case in which a very special assessment must be made, and the debate that has been created that this changes the whole view of the obligation to live or the area limit 0 under the concession law is wrong in the view of the Ministry of Agriculture. This case – which I have stated – will not be reopened and reviewed now, but we assess whether there is a basis for reviewing it on the basis of completely new information that the municipality intends to rely on. We cannot confirm whether this information is relevant to the case until we have had a process, including: with the buyer and seller of this property, and that will happen in the next few days. Of course, it is also the case for the Ministry of Agriculture as for other departments that one has close cooperation with the government attorney on such matters, so one is safe on the legal aspects of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e585	The President would point out that since the matter in question is before the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, it is certainly doubtful whether, in accordance with the principles of the Rules of Procedure, it falls within the scope of the Rules of Procedure at all. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e590	I have a question for the Minister of Education. I refer you to press releases, most recently in Dagbladet on Saturday, March 16, this year, on drug problems in school. According to researchers, abusers are getting younger, and regular high school youths are also using drugs delivered at the school door. The paper's report was from a secondary school in Akershus. Last November, Bergen’s Official Journal told of a similar situation in the Bergens schools: cheap baptism in the schoolyard and health care sister who daily meets drunken students. This is a worrying picture that requires action, if necessary by using untraditional measures. What is the short-term action plan of the Government and the Council of State to combat this problem? And what untraditional instruments will the Council of State implement? It assumes that the Ministry of Education is also responsible for combating the drug problem at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e599	These problems extend far beyond the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research but also affect the school, which was attended by the representative of Sortevik. We have major problems at school in terms of bullying, violence, intoxication and racism, and we must be involved in all this, even though other ministers have a primary responsibility for drug policy, in a broader context. I think two things are important, from a point of view of education policy and the position of the Minister of Education. One is to encourage that within the school community — within the school gateway — there is a code that is clear, known, established in cooperation between students, possibly parents, teachers and school leaders, and is enforced. It's important to avoid bullying and violence, but also to avoid drug problems, I think. Secondly, if we are to tackle this problem on a more general basis, including what is going on in the vicinity of the school and outside the school gate, I think the major defect is a good cross-sectoral and cross-sectoral cooperation between departments and departments. This involves child protection, the health and social sector, the justice sector and the education sector. We have a government secretarial committee of our own in work, such as the is associated with everyday school life, but also with problems in general among children and young people. We need to take these problems seriously, and among other things. look at school leaders’ access to enforcement and enforcement legislation in order to at least get this out of school territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e610	I thank you for your answer. Will also include interaction initiatives with several stakeholders, including: use of dog? I pointed out that there was a question from the Progress Party for approx. two years ago in the Questionnaire where the Council of State, Lilletun, replied confirmably that there is access to the use of dogs for the purpose of searching. A question that also emerges from school leaders is the possibility, in cooperation with the police, to get a check-up in and at the neighbourhoods around the school. Of course, this kind of police investigation requires funds. A concrete issue that arises is access within the school’s regulations – based on the Training Act §§2-9 and 3-7 – to carry out urine tests on pupils, if there is a reasonable suspicion of abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e619	These are, of course, the general rules for the school as for society, that students should have the same legal certainty and the same type of protection as others. In the case of urine samples, this is some of the things that have been very topical. There is something that can be done if it is done voluntarily, but problems arise if it cannot be done on a voluntary basis. All these are measures we need to assess, but then it has to be done in the context, not in isolation in the field of education policy or in isolation in the school sector. But, of course, it has to be done in cooperation with other authorities, especially with the judicial and police authorities. I record that at the local level, both from the police, the school budget, etc., this lack of coordinated cooperation is expressed in despair. It's only when you can get to it that you can also help prevent problems. So this is the big challenge. It is generally a challenge in Norway, but it is clear that we need to take these problems more seriously because they are getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e626	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e630	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. The situation in the Middle East is still very critical. In a short time, the Security Council took a very important decision, which was also unanimous. Despite this, it is difficult to say that there is some measurable progress in the Middle East. The Americans are more involved, and it's positive. At the same time, it is worrying to see that Dick Cheney only visits one party and not both parties, which can well be underlined as if you were taking a stand in this conflict. We are currently sitting with the Presidency of the Security Council and loosing the previous resolution in port. The Minister of Foreign Affairs shall be in favour of this. At the same time, there may be a need for new initiatives from Norway and the Security Council. In particular, the previous resolution related to international observers, who were voted down, is important. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What initiatives do you want to take from Norway in relation to this situation, either through the Security Council or by other means? And is it relevant to raise again the question of an international observer corps in Palestine and in the occupied territories?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e643	I fully share the view of Mr Djupedal that the resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council last week is very important. I agree with the press comments that say that you should be very careful to appoint something that historically just after that happens, because you can't do that. But I believe, on the other hand, that this resolution has enough potential to really be mentioned among the important resolutions. Unfortunately, it was not unanimous. The Syrians abstained from voting in favour, but the other 14 members voted in favour. I think this has now started a development in the Middle East that can go on. So we have to follow the path that's now gone up. There's probably a couple of important things that have to be done in the future. One is to ensure that the self-government authorities in Palestine have a financial basis for their activity. Norway is now taking an initiative in this area. We are the president nation of the donor country group and will therefore hold a meeting in Oslo in April to address this issue, which I believe is important. I think the authority of self-government depends on their financial basis. On the issue of bringing new proposals for decisions to the Security Council, I think it would be far too early to do at this stage. The question of international observers is, as Mr Djupedal knows, a position Norway has had all along. We believe that it may be right when the parties agree. It's also the only condition for being able to get observers in there, as Djupedal also knows. We've reported that card a number of times, and of course we'll follow it up when it's an opening to get it to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e655	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It is clear that there is a special responsibility on the part of Norway, both as head of the Security Council during this period and because Norway has historically had a role to play. This means that Norway has an opportunity. In this situation, it means that the parties to this conflict must not be equated. That means you have to be very clear that it is an occupying power and also an occupied people. I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs now says so clearly that we should look at the economic conditions associated with the self-government authorities. Clearly, it is difficult to imagine a stable development as long as the Palestinian self-government authorities are constantly humiliated and have no financial capacity to clean up properly, or, to put it that way, to rebuild what has been destroyed by the war. And this is basically my last question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Israel has destroyed a lot of infrastructure paid with international money, also paid with Norwegian money, not least the Central Statistical Office of Palestine. How will Norwegian foreign authorities handle this? Would it be topical, as I know the EU now considers, to seek compensation from Israel for the money invested?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e664	Now I'm going to be very careful to take numbers from my head, because I don't have them here. But it is quite right, as Djupedal suggests, that there are Norwegian-funded projects that are also damaged. The amount here, I think, is probably not so big a world, and I don't think it's crucial in itself. It is essential that these destructions have been carried out. We've made that quite clear a number of times that we think is unacceptable. It is independent of whether Norway or others have funded it. The point is that it's the Palestinians this goes beyond. Otherwise, I agree with Djupedal that Norway has managed its pound in such a way that we have an intake in the process. I think that's what this month's Security Council is showing. Of course, we attach great importance to preserving this possibility in the future. It gets frustrating if we have to move from being an actor to just becoming one who has opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e671	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e674	Based on the situation that is now in the Middle East, it is important to use all diplomatic means to put pressure on Israel, so that one comes into a negotiating situation. Israel had previously kept Arafat under house arrest. Still Israel does not allow Yasir Arafat to leave the Palestinian territories. As a visible indication that this is unacceptable, it would be wise, in the opinion of the Centre Party, to issue a formal invitation to Yasir Arafat for an official visit to Norway. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs issue such an invitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e683	Of course, that's an opportunity. What Åslaug Haga is now asking about, is one of the topics that I might have talked about most in the Middle East in the last few months, namely, that I think it's totally unacceptable that Arafat is being held under house arrest. It is an undermining of him as the head of the Palestinian self-government. This was, as I think I have mentioned a few times before in Stortinget, one of several topics I discussed with Prime Minister Sharon when I had a meeting with him early in January. Then the big symbol thing was attached to the Christmas celebration in Bethlehem. This is a position that I had then and expressed with strength, and has had the side and performed with strength. I appreciate all the contributions to make these things operational. But our position here, as Haga also knows, has been quite clear all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e688	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e693	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question No 3, by Mr Eirin Fallet to the Minister for Finance, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 11, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn. Question 12, from the representative of Gjermund Hageseter to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative of Mr Haga to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. Question 18, from the representative Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has a disease. Question 19, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen. Questions 23 and 24, from the representatives of Marit Arnstad and Odd Roger Enoksen respectively to the Minister for Defence, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 25, 26, 27 and 28, from the representatives of Rolf Terje Klungland, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, Kenneth Svendsen and Synnøve Konglevoll, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e722	‘U.S. Secretary of State Bolton claims that Iran produces biological weapons and equips missiles with biological warheads. This is a clear breach of international agreements. We know that Iran is building a nuclear reactor and that it is allegedly being used for civil purposes. The latter is in stark contrast to the threat posed by the Iranian leader, Rafsanjani, who on 14 December 2001 suggested the destruction of Israel with nuclear weapons. Is the Foreign Minister alerted about this, and will he address the matter with Iran?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e729	The President makes it clear that, in order to save time, the Storting has decided to use the interlocutory seats in the Chamber, also in the ordinary Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e732	Then I'll be happy standing where I am. Iran’s arms programmes and non-compliance with international arms control agreements are of concern. However, there are different assessments of whether Iran has developed — or is developing — weapons of mass destruction. Iran cooperates with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, but has not accepted the so-called ‘enhanced safeguard regime’ adopted by the IAEA. Iran has not ratified the nuclear test stop agreement and its rocket capacity is alarmingly high. Norway shares international concern about this and expects Iran to take steps to comply with international arms control obligations. Iran is familiar with the Norwegian concerns, which I will re-examine during my visit to Tehran next month. Statements by Iran's spiritual leader, Rafsanjani, on the so-called Jerusalem Day, December 14, last year, are unacceptable, not only because of its actual content but also because Rafsanjani contributes to an even more intransigent attitude towards the Middle East conflict, which is the opposite of what is needed to dampen the violence and restore the peace process on the rails. As a high-ranking Muslim leader, Rafsanjani has a special responsibility to the opinion both in Iran and internationally. In his opinions of 14 December, he mismanaged this responsibility. From the Norwegian side, we have deplored his statements in the strongest possible terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e749	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. We know that Iran supplies terrorist organizations with weapons, thousands of missiles every week to Hezbollah, and we also know the ship Karine A. The country has rockets that reach the entire Middle East, and in two years, the experts believe, as I know, that Iran will have rockets that reach Europe and even the United States. At the same time, one knows that al-Qaida members find refuge right in Iran. Nor will I be more relaxed by the fact that Rafsanjani on Iranian TV defends and encourages terrorist and suicide actions against civilians on 30 January. My question, then, is: What kind of possibilities and means does the West have and to the extent that Norway uses – that is a big question – to influence a regime that has such a will to export its ideology, to say it diplomatically, and that then also actively counteracts peaceful solutions in the Middle East?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e758	I would first like to say that the impression of Iranian policy in this area has led me to use quite a lot of language for it, so strongly that someone has taken hold of it. However, I believe that this has been justified, and that will be the basis for the talks I want with the Iranian authorities. Iran's policy is multiplicity in many ways. There are encouraging features associated with the elections that have been, and we know that there is a fairly open political debate. On the other hand, we see, as I've been about, very disturbing moves. This is a problem in the Middle East debate in general. There is no doubt that Israel is very, very concerned about what they hear from Iran. So to the question of what we can do with that. Yes, as a small nation, there is every reason to be sober in relation to it, but it must not make us stop trying to influence as far as possible, and this is one of several purposes of my visit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e767	I also thank you for the last answer, which was so extensive. Last but not least, I would just like to ask the Foreign Minister to think about the reactor in Iraq, which in the world was bombed by Israel. But there were many who were happy that it was bombing flat when the Gulf war started.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e774	Now we are in the neighbouring country and, of course, Iraq policy is a very special challenge and very difficult. I would like to stress that there must now be no doubt that the outside world's demand for Saddam Hussein is that he comply with the UN resolution on this – sentence and full stop. Unfortunately, Iraq is withdrawing the matter, and we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e802	These questions don't go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e808	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘Today there is a relatively high cost of purchasing VAT-based goods from abroad by imposing a relatively high customs charge on all packages. The process of getting the package through the customs system is long-term and expensive and should be simplified. Last year, a process started at NHD, SD and FIN to simplify the system. In regular Question Time on 24 January 2001, the Minister for Transport said that the Government’s aim was to implement these simplification measures by 2001. What is the status?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e817	Today, electronic customs duties are offered to businesses 24 hours a day. However, the customs duty and duty rate solution for industry, the so-called TVINN system, is less suitable for individuals, because the solution is relatively expensive for importers with small imports. It is also relatively complex and the requirements are partly regulated by international agreements. If individuals are to import goods today, they can either be declared free of charge by meeting at the nearest customs office with relevant documents or have a freight forwarder do customs duties on their behalf. If the goods come via Post, you will receive a request from the Post office for customs clearance, or if you want to do it yourself. Anyone making such a declaration, in this case the post, charges for the customs service. Commodities with a value of less than SEK 200 are known to be exempt from charges and are therefore not to be dutyed. It's per. Today no country, as we know, offering electronic customs clearance solutions for individuals. I aim to introduce as soon as possible a simplified electronic customs clearance solution suitable for private individuals. The Customs and Charges Director is now in the process of facilitating this. It will not be later than 1 January 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e826	The entry costs NOK 149 in customs duties. The fee for the toll involves an increase of 37,25 pst. in addition to VAT, for a product of 400 kroner. This is in itself a distortion of competition to the detriment of e-commerce. Whether it is so complicated to simplify customs procedures, does the Minister of Finance not believe that the consideration of e-commerce, and not least the consumer's concern, suggests that it would be appropriate to consider increasing the limit of the VAT exemption? And in addition, what is the Government's view of the principle that consumers have to pay a significant fee to pay a fee to the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e831	These are two new questions, which were not included in the original. I answered yes to the questioner's original question, which I understand particularly about individuals. If the customs fee is too high or too high, it is not under my department to decide. I would recommend that you deal with that in another appropriate way. With regard to the VAT limit, the Ministry has no plans to change the limit, which has been set relatively recently by Stortinget – as far as I remember with the widest possible support, also from the questioner's batch.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e843	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘Do the Council of State consider that insurance companies can bind their customers up to one year at the time of the conclusion of an insurance contract and that the many mergers in the insurance industry mean that the competitive situation of Norwegian consumers is real, and what significance has this had for the insurance premium of Norwegian consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e850	I first allow myself to say that this is a fairly comprehensive question. The answer is like this: It is appropriate, in relation to customers’ right to cancel insurance contracts, to consider both non-life insurance and life insurance separately. In non-life insurance, contracts are normally signed for a period of one year. If the policy holder cancels the insurance from the end of the insurance period, he must notify the company thereof not later than one month from the date on which the company has sent the ordinary notification of the premium for the new period. During the period of insurance, the policyholder may cancel a current insurance relationship only if the need for insurance fails or there are other specific reasons. This is based on the insurance contract law §3-2, which is also under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. In life insurance, contracts are normally agreed for many years. Paragraphs 7 to 8 of the Insurance Activities Act provide that a life insurance contract may be terminated upon notification to the company for the transfer to another life insurance company or pension fund. The removal regulation specifies the period of notice and settlement for the transfer of funds. These vary from two to eight months depending on the size of the contract. Competition in the insurance market depends on several factors. One condition is the ability of customers to change their supplier during the insurance period. This is particularly important for long-term insurance contracts, i.e.: life insurance contracts, etc. In this context, it is worth noting that a general mobility option for life insurance, with up-to-date accounts, which one has in Norway, is actually not common in other countries. This was introduced in order to strengthen the rights of customers when the insurance law was modernised in 1988, thus strengthening the competitive position of Norwegian life companies. In Sweden, for example, not such a statutory right, but it is up to the individual company to take a stand. The number of actors, their marketing strategies and customer price awareness are other factors that also affect the competitive situation. By the end of 2001, there were eight traditional life companies in the Norwegian market and 53 non-life insurance companies with a concession from the Norwegian authorities. Furthermore, for non-life insurance in particular, foreign branches with strong market shares are currently established in Norway. The company If is an example of that. There is also some cross-border activity in the field of insurance. From the position of the Competition Board, it appears that the market share of the five largest life companies measured on the basis of the premium earned is slightly higher in Norway than in other Nordic countries. There are several aspects of the insurance contract law that can be improved from the interests of consumers. In consultation with the Minister of Justice, I would like to look into the law so that liberalisation can give consumers greater flexibility. During the course of the year, the Ministry of Justice intends to refer to the question of extending the possibility of cancelling insurance contracts during the period of insurance. It would be natural to look at time horizons that companies can tie up their customers, as the raiser here has raised his question. In addition, I would also like to consider provisions that make consumers aware that the customer has the right to cancel the insurance – including the transfer of the insurance to another company – no later than one month from the day on which the premium warning was sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e865	Does the questioner want the word for additional questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e868	It might have been completely unnecessary with this very positive answer that the Council of State has now given. I can't, however, dare to make a small comment. Taking out insurance is a relatively expensive affair for many consumers, and we know that the earnings of our insurance company are not in the way. That's why I think the industry's own explanation in the world today that this will lead to increased administrative costs is pure nonsense. This is a simple grip from the industry to take the grip on the wallet of Norwegian consumers. To conclude, I would like to say that the Council of State's response was very positive for many Norwegian consumers, and I hope he is as clear in his conclusion when the consultation round is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e877	The President will note that the word ‘wet’ belongs to the parliamentary frontier country, whereas ‘purely’ is definitely outside the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e880	I am not going to participate in the characteristics of the company's statements, but they stress the need for customers' rights in Norway in this area to be clearly regulated, and I intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e888	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In the Glåmdalen newspaper of 2 March 2002, we can read about a couple who sold their small farm last year, partly because of economics. They have not yet received the settlement, as the agricultural office has not dealt with the application. Does the Council of State consider this to be an acceptable time to wait, or will the Council of State, on a general basis, impose a faster procedure on the local/municipal agricultural offices, so that the waiting time for the seller and the purchaser is as short as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e897	After I have been informed, this matter applies to Gnr. 40 bn 7 and 9 in Kongsvinger municipality. The agricultural office in the municipality received the concession request on 14 November 2001. In connection with the collection of the handling fee, the purchaser was informed by letter of 19 November 2001 that the time of proceedings in the municipality for such cases was approximately approx. two months after the fee paid, and that the case would then be sent to the County Agriculture Board for a decision. The fee was paid the same week. The municipality examined the case on 12 March 2002. This means a procedure of approx. Four months. So it took seven weeks more than first announced in a letter from the municipality. I understand that the seller and the purchaser are busy resolving this type of case as soon as possible, including. for the purpose of settlement. It is therefore desirable to have shorter processing times in the municipality than in this case. As far as I am aware, however, most concession cases are dealt with in the municipalities within a time frame of approx. three months, which must be regarded as an acceptable period of procedure. Although the duration of the proceedings of the municipality in this case is somewhat longer than usual, on the basis of this case I find no reason to do anything in general regarding the length of the proceedings of the local authorities and county agricultural boards. However, I should point out that in this case the municipality should have informed the parties that the processing period would be longer than initially assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e910	I thank you for the answer, which was so good, but although I mention an example, the question was of course raised on a general basis. Why this case was dealt with just on 12 March, just after an article in the Glamdalen – or if it had anything to do with that I should address this question here today – I should not say, but at least the case has resolved itself for the best of all. On a general basis, I think it must be possible to set a deadline. From the time the case is delivered, it should go up to that and so long, e.g. two months, so that both the purchaser and the seller have a specific date to deal with, in which case the agricultural office/company office may be set up after that deadline. That's what I want with my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e919	Yes, I agree with the principle approach. It is desirable that the procedure should proceed as soon as possible. It is desirable that the municipalities, even within the framework of what they can do in municipal autonomy, set time for their proceedings in order to ensure that the citizens and users of the services are provided with them in the shortest possible time. In this context, I would like to see a broader reform of the Government in delegating powers under so-called task-sharing, as announced. We want to delegate several tasks to the municipalities, including: in the context of concession law treatment, which will enable municipalities to make final decisions in such cases and to avoid the time allowed for the administration to also have a treatment at the county level, as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e926	What happens, as it works today, is that there is a frustration between the buyer and the seller, because they have no fixed date to deal with. It also creates some unnecessary expenses. The seller usually has a loan on the property. The loan runs all the time, and the interest rate makes it cost money. Besides, you can't touch the property. You can't harvest a property you've sold, so there's no income in this period either. So this creates uncertainty and frustration. In this way, it must be time-limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e931	I can essentially just join the general view. And especially when we are faced with the kind of examples that the representative here raises — as the representative himself points out in his question — that the sale is made because of the poor economy, it is clear that a few months ahead of being able to get the sum of sales are difficult months to wait if bills are also waiting. I have the greatest understanding of that. That is why we must constantly work to make the public sector more efficient in this area too in order to provide better services to our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e940	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘It is widely believed that large price differences in food prices of Norwegian and neighbouring countries will greatly reduce the survival of agriculture. Prices of groceries in Sweden are 20-25 pst. above the EU average, and the Swedish government is taking action to strengthen competition in order to achieve lower food prices. What measures does the Council of State prepare to prevent price differences from increasing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e949	I assume the representative Hedstrøm refers to the study «Borderhandelen mit Sverige und Danmark» from the Statistical Central Bureau when he indicates that Sweden is 20-25 pst. above the EU average, and so it is with the consumption patterns of each country. The same report shows that all countries in northern Europe are above the EU average. This is largely due to the general level of costs and purchasing power in these countries — as in Norway. It will not be possible to compete on price alone with an environment where all individual factors in the production process are cheaper. And let me add that measured against the Norwegian purchasing power is Norwegian food that doesn't know animals. Of course, this does not prevent some people from acting where the food is cheaper, i.e. on the other side of the Swedish border. The Border Trade Survey of the Statistical Central Agency again demonstrates that the price level in the typical border trade areas is partly significantly lower than elsewhere in Sweden as well. At the most typical border trade goods prices were in Sweden 25-40 pst. over the border trade areas. The most extreme example was chicken wings, where Swedish prices were 110 pst. higher inwards in Sweden where the customer base is local. Both of our neighbouring countries are efficient agriculture in terms of goods production. It goes without saying that the Norwegian agricultural policy cannot be put in a position to compete with the prices at the border of the typical border trade products. But that doesn't mean I'm not interested in food prices. VAT reform helped to reduce the price difference to the outside world by 10 p.m., although strong dollars are currently eating up some of the gain. There is still an objective to reduce price differences between neighbouring countries. In the formation of food prices, public authorities have three main steps to take: the level of commodity prices through the target prices of the agricultural contract; the level of competition in the value chain; and documentation and information to consumers, so that they can choose from their priorities. The border trade survey is part of the Ministry of Agriculture’s ongoing price monitoring programme. The government is working on measures to help reduce the structural costs of agriculture. It will provide an important basis for rational development in commodity prices. And we're working on ensuring effective competition at the processing stage. Competition supervision has the primary responsibility to ensure effective competition in the downstream sector. The Norwegian agricultural and food industry is dependent on serving customer demand. However, in such a small market as Norwegian, it is very difficult both to be fully competitive in the low-price segment, which primarily needs volume, and in the diversity market. Overall effectiveness must also be assessed in relation to the objectives of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e962	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is the same in all political environments that conditions in Norway, with structure, climatic conditions, etc., do not generally allow us to fall to the same price level as the average in Europe. But the main point is that if price differences become too large, more and more Norwegians will be tempted to act elsewhere. And when we know that we have a market in close balance in Norway – Norwegian agricultural production and demand in Norway are in close balance – there is little going to be until there is a significant imbalance, and that this will have a negative impact on Norwegian farmers. The Council of State outlined three options in the field of agricultural planning, but he said very little about what priority will be given by the Government. Aren't we going to have to look at the value chain, rationality, efficiency, etc. to prevent price differences from increasing beyond what we see today? We know that the Swedes have a number of measures they will now implement, which will reduce prices or keep them at a low level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e976	I agree that we need to keep paying attention to the price issues. At the same time, the representative Hedstrøm and I know that in Norway we have been sentenced in many ways to have an expensive food production. It has to do with our climatic conditions, and it has to do with conditions that make us a high-cost country – not least our large oil and gas resources have contributed to it. In total, this makes it very difficult to keep costs down in Norwegian food production. But we don't have to give in to that. There's no sleeping cushion. We have to keep focusing on how we can increase efficiency and thus get prices down. That's about. one third of the food prices that consumers meet in the store, which come from the primary producer. Then it is very important that we have effective negotiation systems, and it is important that we have efficient processing chains. I still think it is important to say that very many of us, such as. Today’s MMI study shows that Norwegian food production represents other qualities, for which we are also willing to pay through the food price.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e985	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. The survey in the nations today that 53 p.m. would like to pay some more to buy their food in Norway in order to maintain agricultural production is one side of the case. The other side is that 31 pst. wants more imports and border trade, etc. to lower food prices, and 10 pst. wishes for the level of the day. Now all signals are that prices of Norwegian agricultural products will rise in the future, while Sweden is taking action by competition authorities and Agenda 2000, which means that some basic producers in neighbouring countries will reduce prices by 10-20 pst. etc. And then we're going to have increased price differences. We also have the WTO and other things that will work in the long term. Is it not now important that we take this into account if Norwegian agriculture and the actors associated with it are to survive further?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e994	I agree with the last line. It is important that farmers survive, and that many remain in this industry, which is important both to get good quality food at the right price, but also because agriculture provides other important values for us in Norwegian society. Then we have to help sort out all of this. We should be as effective as we can in Norway in food production and food supply and not have unnecessary costs. We get to stretch that knit as far as we can to avoid excessive price differences. And then we need to highlight the qualities that we have and that we can compete in in Norway, which is linked to quality, which is linked to the fact that because we live so widely, we can have an animal welfare that no other country can have. We can inject less because it is colder in Norway. We have many such qualities that we know that large Norwegian markets would like to pay for, and I am pleased about that. Since the representative Hedstrøm is also from Østfold, which is a great cultural landscape, I am sure he would like to be with me and sing with our Swedish troubadour that «I like best in open landscapes». We also pay for this through Norwegian food prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1004	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Minister of Justice said to TV 2 on 7 February this year that he wanted to look at the case of a woman who has been regularly harassed for more than four months by a youth in the form of killing threats, burning marks and direct beatings. What has the Council of State done, and what will be done to ensure the safety of the woman?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1013	Of course, young people who are exposed to violence and threats are entitled to follow-up from the police. Society has a special and extensive responsibility to protect minors from all types of abuse. Children and young people shall not be subjected to violence and harassment. It follows from our own legislation and from Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which obliges all bodies to act on the basis of an assessment of what is best for the child. The question put by the representative Simonsen is directly related to an individual issue concerning a child aged 16 years. However, her own claim for privacy needs to reflect the level of detail of my response in the case of relief measures. The specific matter is handled at the Manglerud Police Station. During the period after my opinion on TV 2 on 7 February, I had a meeting with the management at Manglerud, where the matter in question was one of several items on the agenda. There have also been contacts on several occasions between the department and the police officer, as well as with the Police Directorate. Five notifications are available from the age of 16 in the period from 17 December 2001 to 26 February 2002. These have been investigated and a significant number of interrogations have been carried out. The first notification made on 10 February 2002 aimed at four young people aged 15 to 17 for threats, damage works and violation of another's peace. A youth under 15 years of age contributed. He cannot be sighted, but child protection has been informed of the necessary follow-up. The other notifications are partially attributed to the position of the certificate or are still under investigation. In addition, the overall situation of the girl has been assessed in relation to relevant police prevention measures in the youth community of the district, and the family has received various police follow-up offers. In general, I would like to say that this matter is an example of several of the challenges child crime poses for both police, school, parents and others. Violence and threats take place in youth settings where both practitioners and victims are located, with the result that investigation and evidence are largely met with silence and/or conflicting explanations. Furthermore, it has a particular feature that some of the offenders can be held responsible, while other perpetrators do not respond because they are under 15 years of age. These problems are actively being addressed by the Ministry of Justice. We assess, among other things: different measures on how young people are to be held responsible for their unlawful acts, both above and below criminal courts. Children under criminal courts make special demands for follow-up. Child protection has a responsibility to act as an active partner to the school and police in relation to children who have developed special behaviour. I think of a behavior that not only harms them themselves, but also poses a risk to other children. The government's objective is clear: good measures and procedures are urgently needed to stop illegal behaviour that harms both the performer and, as in today's specific case, other young people. The effort will require cooperation across traditional sector boundaries – an overall perspective on which the Government takes its action, and on which I personally also place great emphasis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1034	I find that four young people are targeted in this matter, but they are on the street, and their environment is obviously out for revenge, because the harassment continues. Not later than Monday, this 16-year-old girl received a picture of herself in the post office, where her head was burned away and greeted with good Easter. This girl is a law-abiding and positive girl with a family who has paid taxes and taxes to the state every year. They should be entitled to receive support from both politicians and the police, so that they can move freely and safely. I would recommend the Minister of Justice to ensure that the police follow this girl very closely even in the future, if necessary with full police protection. Politically, I would like to point out that in many other countries, these four young people would have long before a rapid court, a juvenile court. They would probably be making a sentence in a juvenile prison today. I would recommend that the Minister of Justice get some speed on Norwegian criminal policy and make sure that the same is done in Norway, so that young people who commit such acts can understand that they are doing something wrong and end up doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1041	The comment was two-part. One is the general question of responding. I commented on that at the end of my answer and should not repeat it now, except to mention that I agree with the representative Simonsen that action is urgent. It is also in the government’s work on action against child and youth crime. As regards the specific matter, I am of course aware that there are many matters that have been reported. The most important thing to say about the matter is that the person involved has got a contact from the police from the first time, a contact that she still has, and that he will contact himself, and that he can of course contact himself. When this is the case, it is in order for the police to be able to follow a case in practice and also to follow it so that the victim is protected. It's a practical way to do it, and I trust that the Manglerud Police Station will act in accordance with this way, which they have also used in other matters. It is also true that when you have a contact, you have, of course, an independent right – that is, that of the one who is subjected to harassment – to contact this contact when you consider this to be correct and reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1048	I am pleased that this contact has been established, and I am pleased that the Minister of Justice wants it to continue like this. I assume that this girl can get the follow-up she wants. For example, if she thinks she needs a police card one day, she can have it. I also hope that the Minister of Justice, who has previously proved to be a quite effective Minister of Justice, will now really leave the speech and planning stage and make sure that new, concrete measures are put in place, such as a juvenile court, such as juvenile prisons, and much stronger responses to violence and threats than they have today, so that Norwegian youth will not experience such a nightmare for the future that this girl has suffered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1053	When it comes to issues of concrete action against childhood and youth crime, they have previously been answered in a longer response that I gave to the representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad. I will not repeat it now, except to say that I am generally concerned that these measures will come as soon as possible. With regard to the matter that I am in here, it is the police who have to independently assess the situation that it concerns, but I know that the police have at least previously checked parties and drove them home from school after specific individual assessments. I must also add that I know the police at the Manglerud police station useful. I've been with them on a visit to the south of Oslo. I have visited most of the schools in the south of Oslo, and it is my impression that the kind of questions that the representative Simonsen here has now chosen to address in terms of the circumstances of an individual subject who is subject to harassment and abuse are very serious. That is my general impression, and then I assume that of course it also works like this in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1065	‘Vadsø is located 20 miles from the nearest hospital and wants to modernise its x-ray equipment. This will improve the provision of the city’s citizens and represent an economic saving for society in terms of reduced travel costs. The Rikstrøgdewerk will not grant this. What is the Government’s strategy for seeing society’s resources as a whole and for the State to contribute through the Rikstrøgdeverket to the operation of decentralised services to save travel costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1072	Vadsø Municipality took over X-ray equipment from the former hospital in Vadsø. The service has been provided by municipal health professionals, and the images taken locally have been sent to the Church Hospital for Interpretation. Operation has been financed entirely by the municipality. Investment in new x-ray equipment is now needed. One also wants to ensure the quality of the service by organising the activities as a satellite under the X-ray department at the Church Hospital. I have been informed that the local government will cover the purchase of new digital x-ray equipment at Vadsø health centre, and that the Kirkene hospital will operate the service if the state assumes responsibility for financing the operation. Vadsø Municipality has applied to the Swedish National Agency for operating funds, having regard to the fact that social security saves money by the fact that patients do not go to the Church Hospital for X-ray studies. The Swedish Public Works Agency does not have access to the financing of equipment and the operation of x-ray activities in the specialist health service. Responsibility for financing the operation of specialist health services is now in the hands of regional health establishments. With regard to the operation of the X-ray activity in Vadsø, I would therefore like to assume that a solution must be sought primarily and in the short term between Vadsø Municipality and Health Nord Regional Enterprises. I can see that an offer to have X-rays carried out locally in Vadsø is favourable to patients and is likely to lead to socio-economic savings. As Minister of Health, I am committed to getting the best possible health care in terms of both availability and quality. For this reason, a working group has been set up to assess whether responsibility for sick transport and care personnel should be transferred from public health to regional health establishments and/or that part of the service should be transferred to municipalities. I will consider such a transfer with possible entry into force in 2004. In addition, the Ministry has recently set up a body to look at the future financing mechanisms for the specialist health service as a whole. An assessment of funding solutions in the borderline between primary health services and hospitals, the specialist health service, will be part of this sample’s assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1083	I thank you for your answer. We know that when it comes to health services in Norway and especially in North Norway, there are geographical distances between the relatively large centres. It is clear that there is no doubt that travel costs are significant in terms of health, especially in North Norway. I record that the Council of State says that it is now the health company that is responsible. But we also know that you have intervened, for example. with dialysis in Alta, which also does not have a hospital. I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: will the Council of State do something that will enable this matter to be resolved in a way as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1092	As I said in my first answer, the solution is not that the Swedish National Agency is involved in the financing of hospital services. The solution must be that the regional health business and health business in Finnmark find that this is a solution consistent with the framework they have and their mission to provide services to the population in this area. I want to keep myself informed about how the health company handles this case. However, I believe that the important and strategic opportunity to influence this system in the future lies in the system changes that are now being explored, where we, among other things, are. examines the possibility of sick transport, and therefore travel expenses, becoming part of the responsibilities of health establishments. In this case, health businesses will face choices in the relationship between decentralised solutions and travel costs, which provide opportunities for more rational choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1099	I recorded in the answer to my first question how the Government views the total cost principle and the use of society's resources as a whole. The Council of State outlined a solution to consider whether the costs of transporting patients and not least for treatment should be taken from one bag of money. And that point is positive. I think that's going to result in a better health service for, among other things. the population of Northern Norway. I thank you for the answer, and I feel that the problem that was at the heart of my question, that one should see the resources of society together, is taken care of by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1109	My question goes to the Minister of Health. ‘In my opinion, I have recorded that the availability of somatic hospital treatment for drug addicts in the Oslo region is very unsatisfactory. What can the Council of State do with that?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1118	We know that many drug users have extensive health problems. An accessible and good health service, including somatic hospital treatment, is therefore very important. Although drug users have the same right as others to the necessary healthcare, unfortunately, there is a lot to suggest that we have an under-use of healthcare in this group. This is why the Government decided that from the turn of the year the Ministry of Health should assume overall responsibility for the provision of health services to drug users. With regard to somatic specialist health services in particular, I would like to stress that drug users of course have the same statutory rights to somatic specialist health services as other citizens in the country. Nevertheless, I see that this is a patient group that will have special challenges in relation to visiting services, and unfortunately, difficulties are also reported in providing somatic services in the primary health service. Among other things, I have in this context, a specific point on health care for drug users was inserted in the governance documents of regional health enterprises. I quote from the Health East Steering Document, which says: ‘Institutions for drug addicts authorised by the Special Health Service Act follow the transition to state ownership. These are measures such as outpatient clinics, emergency centres and various specialised treatment institutions. In addition to these measures, healthcare providers must ensure that drug users have access to the necessary health services in ordinary specialist health services. ... The Ministry assumes that Health East, in cooperation with the municipalities, will continue to develop and organise measures for people with mental disorders and extensive drug abuse.’ Regional health undertakings shall report on the results obtained in relation to the management message sent, including in this area. Of course, I will follow the results of drug treatment, which is a high priority field for me and for the Government. In order to get a comprehensive picture of the situation, I would also ask the State Health Authority, as part of its supervisory activities, to consider more closely the provision of somatic health services for drug users, in order to assess the need for specific measures on this basis. When, from the turn of the year, I have taken a greater responsibility for this area, my goal is to strengthen the health care effort in general for this group, as well as clarifying responsibilities and coherence in the treatment chain. As part of my efforts to achieve this goal, I have asked the Social and Health Directorate to review and propose improvement measures in the provision of health services to drug users. In addition, the government intends to submit to the Stortinget during the spring a proposal that the State assumes the responsibilities of the county council for action for drug addicts that can be defined as a specialised health service. These are thus in addition to those institutions which are already covered by the Special Health Service Act and which followed the transition to state ownership at the turn of the year. With this proposal, regional health establishments are responsible for all specialist health services for this group. One of the objectives is overall governance and better health provision for people with drug problems. This is important as part of the Government’s objective of strengthening treatment provision for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1136	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I can say that I broadly agree with everything that has been notified to me. I'm glad. Very many injecting drug users have chronic and sometimes severe infections of the skin, muscles and, in part, of the skeleton. This is due to poor hygiene, unclean substance and significant immunodeficiency. In serious situations, these patients need treatment in specialist healthcare, which means major problems today. I understand that many hospitals and surgical departments do not have sufficient preparedness and infrastructure for this type of infection treatment, nor is it isolated. One is therefore anxious to bring staphylococcal infection into ordinary hospitals. But what I don't understand and can't accept is that these patients don't get the help they need, in a humane and good way. Will the Minister of Health consider contacting the enterprises in the Eastern region with a view to facilitating the treatment of infections in drug addicts in one or more hospitals in the region? And will he facilitate that the threshold for treatment is significantly lower than is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1145	Let me first say that the emergency response at our hospitals should be available to drug addicts, as to all other Norwegian citizens. The obligation to provide healthcare for drug addicts in the ordinary specialist healthcare service is underlined to the enterprises in the management documents. I think it is important that we have special measures in the form of low-threshold health services so that we can address the kind of problems that the representative Alvheim is now pointing to, but I think we need to also ensure that the threshold into the specialist healthcare service is lower. I would like to include the proposals that Mr Alvheim is now suggesting, in my further dialogue with the professional authorities in this field. I think it is important that the hospitals in charge of emergency preparedness check whether they have sufficient competence and a sufficient understanding of the needs of drug addicts when entering treatment. I think it's absolutely essential that hospitals that have emergency functions have to view this as part of their normal emergency medical responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1154	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer and am pleased with it. It's okay to have emergency responsibilities, but unfortunately it doesn't work for those drug addicts. I'm aware that drug addicts who have been so fortunate enough to be admitted to treatment often write themselves out after a short time because they don't get painkillers after surgery. They also do not get methadone in the hospital, which makes the situation completely unsustainable for the individual. We can all understand that. Will the Minister of Health contribute to the development of guidelines to ensure that, after surgical treatment and other treatment in hospitals — treatment leading to severe pain — those who relieve pain, are in line with other patients? It should be a matter of course, but unfortunately it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1163	I have, as I mentioned in my first answer, asked the Social and Health Directorate to consider proposing measures to improve the provision of health services to drug users. I would like to ask the Directorate to look in particular at how hospitals can better organise to receive and provide treatment to drug addicts, both as part of emergency preparedness and due to the health problems they are constantly struggling with as a result of their drug addiction. In this respect, I would like to raise with the professional authorities the questions that the representative Alvheim has now asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1180	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1194	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1201	I want to ask the Minister for Child and Family Affairs the following questions: «Pensioners and insured persons receive their payments on 20th of each month. Different public bodies, on the other hand, operate with a number of different maturity dates for different payment claims. We know that many pensioners and insured people are struggling with poor finances, and some people have problems complying with the payment deadlines. Will the Council consider introducing a common due date for public requirements, such as the 20th, in order also to facilitate private economic planning?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1210	The public is the creditor or is liable for a very large number of types of claims. The expiry date for the requirements is sufficient to be partially random, but there may also be special reasons why a specific date has been selected, such as: some public benefits are to be paid in advance. I don't think it would be appropriate to start work on coordinating the maturity date of all public claims. Due to the large number of types of requirements, this would be very extensive work. Nor am I convinced that it will be easier for most people to feel that the requirements are due on one and the same date. Although pensions are largely paid around the 20th every month, many insured persons have incomes spread over different payment dates. For example, child benefit and cash support are paid at the end of the month, reintroduction twice per month. month, housing allowance three times a year at the beginning of the month of payment, etc., just to mention something. Many will therefore find it easier for expenditures to be incurred at some different times, so that they do not ‘all come at once’. It is also the case that many public claims are issued in good time before maturity, making it easier to adjust the payments in relation to the time of payment of pensions, social security, etc. Pensioners and others who find it difficult to plan the private economy may also seek assistance from municipal authorities at the place of residence. Most municipalities today offer financial advice to private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1219	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The reason for my question is that municipal and state bills are now increasingly coming into the mailbox with 14 days and perhaps shorter payment deadlines, for example. municipal charges, electricity, rent and telephone. On a quarterly basis, this will be the large sum, including that of the Council of State, and with the expiry date before the date of social security and pension payments, which is the 20th of each month. The daily newspaper has a look-up today as a reminder of a reminder fee and similar to several hundred million kroner a year, and in many cases interest is added. When the economy is tight and one has come from hand to mouth, the social security comes in at 20, and the maturity is either the 1st or the 15th, we make it hard for people to cope and get paid for themselves as they please. We know that the fees for reminders vary greatly. Among the storks, if you can say so, is the state. For an annual charge on a car and on a student loan, the fee is 250 kroner and on a licence of 133 kroner, to mention something. So it's the state agencies that are the greedy ones, which at the same time make it so that some people have to go to the social office because the margins are so small that it becomes the only way out. What did the Council of State think this could happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1232	I think this is a question for the individual about good economic planning. You have to pay your bills. There is an important notice in the newspaper today that goes on a reminder fee. I hope that you read it as much as you can, that there's actually a roof over how much you can take. My starting point is that people have to be able to decide for themselves, that we don't start a job as if people can't handle their own economy. Today, banks can provide services, for example: autogiro. In the department, we have at least not received any enquiries that suggest that this is a major problem for most people or for the beneficiaries. So that's my answer, I guess. I can so far see no need to launch a huge investigation into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1241	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The Pensioners Association is committed to this. I hope that the Council of State can do something more than look at the problem. We are in a debate on the problem of poverty, and this may be a contribution to action. So I'm going to ask if it's the way the government thinks about the reminder fee, and whether that is the case, if the council thinks it seems reasonable. Maybe there should be more to it than self-eating. Or should it be so that people's everyday problems should also be a dairy cow for the state? The saying that it is expensive to be poor, gets a content when one hears such examples that I have been presented to me on this occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1250	I cannot answer the question about whether the state is making money on a reminder fee, I have no idea of that here and now. Then I had to go back a little and have it checked, and I have not had a chance to do so. But again, I want to say that people have to pay their bills. There is a question of good planning, and in municipalities there are opportunities to get help to plan their private economy. At least I will not confirm that we are going to do this, as we do not have documented needs. Now the representative says that the Pensioners Association is concerned about this. It's possible. In that case, we may take that question in a conversation with them if they contact us, but we have not received such enquiries. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1262	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: «In the evening post Evening 12.3.02 it was said that the city of Old Oslo must cut dramatically in the kindergarten offer in the second half of 2002. E.g.: the State short-term nursery project must be completed for all 4- and 5-year-olds. This is because the Ministry has not given guarantees to the municipality that the State will grant the necessary funds in the revised budget for 2002, as provided for by the Stortinget. In the newspaper on 29 January 2002, the Council of State said that the project must be continued and expanded. Does the Council of State intend to fulfill its promise to Old Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1271	The trial of free short-term childcare facilities for 5-year-olds in Old Oslo city started in the autumn of 1998 and was due to end in the summer of 2001 following the original Stortingen decision. The experiment was extended to four-year-olds in the autumn of 2000. Furthermore, the experiment was extended by the previous government in the early childhood year 2001–2002. The Ministry carried out an evaluation of the trials at the turn of the year 2001/2002. The 2002 budget allocated funds to continue the experiment in the early childhood year 2001–02, i.e. in the summer. The aim of the experiment has been to facilitate better integration and language training and to increase the participation of immigrant children in kindergartens. To date, all children in the target group with whom contact has been possible have been included in the free offer all or part of the year. The first part of the evaluation shows, inter alia: that 5-year-olds have made positive linguistic progress, although they are still in line with their Norwegian-speaking peers. While examining the 2002 budget of the Ministry of Children and the Family, a majority of the Stortinget showed the very positive results and experience of this project and considered that a necessary evaluation should not prevent the possible continuation or development of the project as from the autumn of 2002. I can confirm that the Government of the revised national budget will propose that funds be allocated for the operation of free short-term services in kindergarten for 4- and 5-year-olds in Old Oslo City in the autumn of 2002. I intend to discuss with the Municipality of Oslo how the experiment can possibly be continued after 2002. I will also consider extending the experiment to other municipalities from 2003. In that case, I will come back to that in the budget proposal for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1282	I thank you for the answer, and I am happy for the answer. I ask the question despite the fact that I have registered that the Council of State has expressed itself publicly in more positive terms than what was the starting point for the treatment of the city's budget, and I would like it confirmed here in Stortinget. What is the problem, and as I see it the Council of State must take into account, is that the situation of the City of Old Oslo arose as a result of the doubt the department had created in conversation with the Municipality of Oslo that this money would not come, despite the fact that it was guaranteed through the majority during the examination of the budget in this room. Now I can see that the Council of State's statement is 100 pst. guarantee that the money will still come after the summer of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1287	As I have said, we will propose that funds be allocated to this measure in the revised national budget. The ministry was not familiar with this play from Oslo until what happened in the east of Oslo was discovered as it was announced that this action would be terminated by the Municipality of Oslo. We may also need to have a closer dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo on how to possibly continue this, not as an attempt, but as a more permanent practice after the New Year. It is a problem that some of the attempts that are being made by the state, and which have perhaps been meant to be attempts where the municipality would take over, do not seem to be so easy to liquidate, so I think that the municipality of Oslo must somehow be involved in a further arrangement for this. I can mention that a cross-ministerial working group has been set up to propose models for increased Norwegian knowledge in families without a Norwegian-ethnic background with pre-school children, and in particular in view of the further education of these children. Here, too, the positive experiences we have from the Old Oslo district will be central to our work. So we have a job to do from now on and beyond the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1292	I agree with the Council of State that the important thing is that this should be a permanent arrangement – so far we agree. What is regrettable is that the uncertainty that arose for the city of Old Oslo gained such a long life that it was created both despair and curse among parents and employees, which yesterday led to strong reactions in the district. But I hope that what has now been given in response here helps us to get a good deal of treatment for the future of this nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1297	Here I think we're very much in agreement, and as a councillor in the Ministry of Children and Family, with responsibility for this project, I didn't know until the newspaper releases arrived, and I couldn't handle it until it was in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1305	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘According to Our Country on 14 March 2002, the Government will make it much easier to establish private schools and increase support for these schools from 85 pst. to 90 pst. Does this mean that the Government will prioritise resources for private school provision rather than a strengthening of public school, which is for everyone?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1314	This is not a choice between private and public primary schools. The government will be investing in public schools, but believes that private schools can be and are an important supplement. The government wants a change to the private school law to allow for a greater diversity of primary schools, thus allowing parents and students a greater freedom of choice. I want a simpler and more predictable law. Today, the beauty element is far too big in my opinion. It is largely up to the Council of State to meet or reject an application. I believe that the right to establish schools outside the public school system is an important right. The Private School Act does not regulate this right, but is an instrument to realize it too many. In order for this right to become effective, it is a prerequisite that public support is given, that these schools are tax-funded, as is the primary public school. I think several private primary schools will be developing also for the public schools, as it creates a certain amount of competition between schools. A Swedish report suggests that the growth in the number of private schools has had such an effect in Sweden. There is little evidence that public schools in Sweden have become poorer due to increased diversity. In order to increase the freedom of parents and students to choose schools, the Government of the Sem Declaration goes into order to improve the financial basis for private schools. By increasing the government grant to private schools, parents’ payments will be reduced so that private schools will be an alternative for more. The point of increasing grants is not to take money from students in public schools, but to leave a larger and more accurate amount than today with students who use their right to choose a private school. However, the government has not taken a decision on when to implement it during the period. This is an issue that needs to be considered in the overall budgetary process. Let me add one thing: it's said in the question that the public school is for everyone. That is, of course, true, but it is also these private schools. Everyone should also have access to these private schools — no access can be denied on an unaccountable basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1329	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Now we have had an exchange of views on this earlier today, and there will probably be some arguments going on again. However, I note that the Right has been given an advantage in the Government for a more extensive privatisation of primary school, funded by public funds, and I think it is a little significant that the Progress Party applauds this. On Monday it was said that they were happy that someone was about to release the school from the clumsy grip of the public. It's a description that I think is to the detriment of the Government. It has been said that public funding for a privatised primary school could also be increased in terms of higher education. So this is where the government promises to increase its efforts towards private schools that you haven't set up yet. At the same time, the Council of State has indicated that one has sufficient resources — no more resources are needed to get a good Norwegian public school. I would like to ask the Council of State: is it so that she can confirm here that the school's efforts are to be made towards private schools in the future, or will she also strengthen the public school with increased resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1334	1.7 pst. by primary school students in private schools receiving public support under the Private School Act. In Sweden, after liberalising the private school law there – not like what we intend to do in Norway, but in the same direction – has gone further. It is permitted that the beneficiaries of public support are commercial. After ten years, there is a share of students in these private schools of 3-4pst. It goes without saying that my main concern is going to be about education policy and improving public school, that it's going to be in focus. Today, the economy of schools is largely dependent on the economy of municipalities, and it is per year. date slightly better than the Labour Party added to its State budget for this year. So we don't intend to weaken our efforts towards public school. I want to repeat what I said in the spontaneous question hour: A student does not go to two schools at the same time! So if a student ends up in public school to go to a private school, it's all about getting some of the funds that we would use for the student in public school. So you don't weaken public school by allowing someone to go to private school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1343	I have recorded that arguments are being argued with the establishment of more private school services as an extension of diversity. And then I think that at least me and State Council Clement have a different perception of diversity. As I said earlier today, I believe that today's school is characterized by diversity by a common meeting place for all young people, regardless of background and previous affiliation, while an increase in private school provision would necessarily have to involve sorting. The Council of State said that there will be private schools open to everyone, but there will obviously be restrictions there too, and then you have to have some admission criteria. So I've seen that representatives from the Right in the Education Committee have expressed that this is a first step. Can the Clemet Council give us some insight into what is the next step in privatisation and possibly full competition between schools, including public schools? And in terms of school money and the limitations she says will be incorporated into the proposal that comes — if not when parental contributions will in any case give a pressure to open up increased private funding at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1350	There were many questions here and a short time. We are going to take the next step in the sense that I also want the public school to have greater freedom of action. We've done something already, so that the public school gets more space for action to improve and in and of itself also to compete – if you want to use such an expression – with other schools. Something's up to the state. I myself have helped to liberalize the experimentation. We need to look at organisation, governance, regulation, etc. in public schools. And something is up to the municipalities, for example. the county in the case of free school choice. So to the question of school money, we're going to suggest that there should be no access to commercial schools on the basis of government grants. Nor should it be allowed to take high proportions — only the small amount that is missing between the amount of the subsidy and the cost. I think I can say with quite a degree of certainty that the three parties that make up the government are going to support this proposal, and if the questioner's party also supports it, one has actually decided the law that it will not be commercial schools. I believe that the law we have today, with purpose criteria, has gradually become very difficult to practice and leads to an arbitrary exercise of discretion that makes it high time to change this law. In fact, I believe that the Workers' Party must have assessed if the Workers' Party had been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1365	‘A number of municipalities have established public service offices and several are on the stairs for establishment. Unfortunately, many municipalities experience that government agencies show little enthusiasm for participating in public service offices. This applies both in relation to financial contributions and to the outsourcing of tasks. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all state agencies participate in engagement and financial contributions when municipalities want them to participate actively in public service offices?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1372	As I have explained earlier here in Stortinget, among others. in my answer to questions from the representative Anne Helen Rui on 27 February, I place great emphasis on the effective functioning of public service offices and electronic administration as user-oriented access ports to public administrations across departments and levels of administration, and then across both the state and the municipality. My department has now sent letters to all the municipalities and public offices of the country, where we invite to apply for financial support to public service offices and other projects aimed at establishing such user-oriented access ports to the public. In this context, we have focused on signalling a wide range of elements and criteria that can be used to support development and contribute to the diversity of different models and solutions adapted to local conditions and to the needs of the different user groups. How well we will succeed in producing the desired diversity of models and solutions will be given an indication of when we receive the applications for financial support for the projects within the month of May. We will process the applications quickly and follow them up as soon as possible. With regard to the state agencies, my impression is that they are giving priority to developing a more customer-friendly and service-oriented service in the first line. Both the Directorate of Taxation, the Directorate of Labour and the National Employment Agency develop information and service packages for easier and preparatory treatment in the respective service areas in relation to local service offices. In those municipalities where there are not yet concrete plans for public service offices, it may also be relevant with other cooperation solutions, for example: between the level of social security and the level of the equation. The provision of services from several other governmental service areas, such as free legal assistance, public road services, etc., is also actively pursued. In order to succeed in this work, I believe that we should, to a limited extent, make detailed instructions from above. The principle should be local responsibility and freedom also in the case of state agencies. Rather, we should stimulate different local cooperation models for municipal and state services adapted to local conditions. At the same time, however, both municipal and state authorities must take into account the needs of users. And if this is not the case, I am prepared to take the initiative that the state agencies are instructed to participate more actively in the work with public service offices where it is necessary to get good user-oriented offers. But first we want to use the incentive path.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1385	I thank you for your answer. The government council Norman mentioned this with instructions, and I think that might be necessary. I am delighted to travel around and talk about public service offices to various agencies and municipalities, and I get constant feedback that state agencies – I don't want to say that they are clearly reprehensible – are very, very reluctant to help get the public service office started. On the one hand, they do not want to contribute to the economy, but the other is that they owe it to a regulation that is too complicated to allow them to enter some of their services into public service offices. My question to Victor Norman is therefore: Is the Council willing to look at the legislation if there is a problem to be able to participate in a public service office? Secondly, is he willing to instruct all states to participate if the municipalities so request?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1392	In the last question, the answer is no. The starting point may not be whether the municipalities want State involvement, but whether it is appropriate according to the needs of the users. I just want to instruct in those cases where it's necessary to get a better user-oriented offer. So that also gives the answer to the first question, if I'm willing to do something about the rules. I'm not willing to do anything about the rules to promote public services, but we're very busy doing something about the rules to make public services easier and better for users. In this context, I would like to highlight in particular the great work that is now being done in reviewing the area of employment, social security and social services, which is intended to provide simpler rules, better instruments, and which will thus also facilitate a collection of local services across state and local authorities in an area that is particularly important to users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1399	The problem is this: often, especially in the small municipalities, it is the municipality that is the major player in the public service office, and then there are scattered sections of government services. Social security is common in most municipalities, not all. We have equation, police and some other government services to a limited extent. In some municipalities, for example: the bilgeman one day a week, the Equation Office three days a week, etc. This means that it is the municipality that becomes the big driver to get this done, and then you see in the small places that the state agencies do not think it appropriate to participate because you are almost on your way out of that area. As a district policy, I think it is important to be able to keep this kind of offer even in small municipalities, and therefore it is particularly important that state agencies participate in public service offices in small municipalities. Does the Council of State see that it is necessary to look at these small municipalities with slightly different eyes, so as to ensure that there is a minimum offer in public service offices that these agencies can contribute to?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1404	As I said earlier, we are committed to finding solutions that are tailored to local needs, and I clearly see that the needs are different in small municipalities than in large municipalities. But we are also concerned that service offices are going to be something different and more than a public information office, and therefore we are not so busy that it is going to span all floors. We are more concerned that it should span administrative levels and the levels relevant to users in a special context. In this respect, in relation to the applications received, I will give higher priority to places where the work of service offices may be restricted in terms of themes, and in return, I am more willing to go across the administrative levels. In those cases, I believe that the conditions are conducive to close cooperation between the municipalities and state agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1412	This question, from Åslaug Haga to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1415	I allow myself to ask the following questions, initially to the Minister for Social Affairs, and am pleased that it is answered by the Minister for Transport: ‘Inspecting services in Oslo shall move out together with ambulances when overdoses are reported. [[OCT]] It is important that the OCTs appear rapidly, so that they can provide social-professional follow-up to victims/traitors. The OKT cars have lost their parking cards, which makes parking difficult. OKT should have been given the status of a call-out vehicle and thus the possibility of using bus files and parking near the station. What will the Council of State do to ensure that OKT gets to the patient quickly and does its job well?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1424	The search and coordination service, OKT, in Oslo is doing a very important job, and it is important that it has the best possible working conditions. Several other tasks that they are assigned to carry out are also called upon in the event of overdoses and in order to retrieve very intoxicated persons. These may be acute situations requiring rapid recovery. Sometimes it can also be about lifesaving. Of course, it would be critical – not to say impossible – to carry out this work if they had to queue or spend a lot of time finding a free parking space. The needs of the OKT in terms of accessibility and parking require exemptions from traffic rules and parking provisions. Such exceptions are reserved for a call-out vehicle. It is desirable to keep the number of call-out vehicles relatively low in order to maintain road users’ respect for the call-out vehicle and to take into account the accident risk of its use. Therefore, specific requirements laid down in the Road Traffic Act impose requirements both on the types of vehicles which may be given the call-out status and on the necessary competence of drivers thereof. Initially, the vehicle from the OCT does not meet these requirements. As Minister of Transport, I want to make a concrete assessment of the possibilities and limitations of existing road traffic legislation in relation to the needs of the OKT. That's what I'm going to do pretty quickly. The Minister of Social Affairs will also contact the Municipality of Oslo to discuss whether it is possible to find practical solutions to ensure that the OKT is able to carry out its mission without drivers having to drive or park illegally and be fined.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1433	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that she understands the problem initially. It is unthinkable that those who are going to do a job, which can ultimately be about saving lives, should be subjected to criminal offences in order to do their job in a good way. So that's the case today. Officials of the OKT run in collective fields, they park illegally, they have to trick and mix in order for the individual not to be charged with parking tickets. What we're doing is actually creating lawbreakers when you do a very useful job here, where it's often urgent. I am pleased that the Council of State will check the possibilities of finding a solution. But my question is, doesn't the Council of State see that today's system is completely unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1438	As I said before, I see the need to go through things here, because it's quite right as Haga's representative says, that it's an important function that is cared for by the people who have this mission. It should not be necessary to commit a crime in order to carry out a good and important job. That is why, as I said, as Minister of Transport, I want to go through the constraints that must lie within road traffic legislation and see if we can resolve something here that could contribute in the right direction. As I said, the Minister of Social Affairs will contact the Municipality of Oslo to the extent that there are challenges for which the municipality is responsible and which can be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1443	As I said, I am pleased to see what opportunities exist within existing legislation and legislation. But I would say that this is such an obvious matter that if necessary you must also be prepared to look at the legislation related to it. I understand that there is a job done here by several representatives in the government. My question will then be, When can we expect to have a clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1450	This is a work that we are addressing now. Of course, it's hard for me to promise a date for when we're going to have this in place, but we're addressing the challenge right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1459	This question, from Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1462	I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘The Guarantee Institute for Export Credit is involved in several disputed dam projects in developing countries, including an NCC project in the Dominican Republic, and the Bujagali Hydropower project in Uganda, in which Norwegian Road Deck is involved. [[CHOOSE]] Does the Government consider that there is consistency between Norwegian industrial policy and development policy in these cases, and does the Government believe that consideration of what is conducive to development should form the basis for which projects GIEK should support in developing countries?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1471	There is a broad consensus today that industrial development and economic growth are necessary conditions for sustainable poverty reduction in developing countries. Moreover, wages and salaries strengthen the ability of countries to finance themselves key societal tasks such as health and education, thus contributing to the reduction of dependency on aid. Developing countries themselves have expressed a clear desire for foreign business to invest and engage in concrete projects in the long term. From the Norwegian side, the involvement of Norwegian industry in developing countries is therefore considered important and desirable in relation to development policy objectives. At the same time, of course, we are concerned that business is conducted in accordance with international guidelines on the environment and human rights. In the case of publicly supported export finance and guarantees, continuous work is being undertaken within the OECD to develop common guidelines on the environment and guidelines to reduce the extent of corruption. The Norwegian authorities, together with, among others, EVERYONE played an active role in this work. The function of GIEK is to cover risks arising from exports and investments abroad. Many developing countries are struggling to attract trade and investment because both commercial and political risks are considered very high for investors. Few of these countries have their own, competitive guarantee institutions or schemes. Therefore, the ability of Norwegian suppliers and investors to expose their risks through GIEK contributes in itself to increased business exposure in developing countries and is thus in line with the wishes of developing countries. GIEC administers several guarantee schemes, including the guarantee scheme for investments in and exports to developing countries, the U-country scheme. One of the projects referred to in the question, in Uganda, is dealt with under this scheme. This specific case is currently under consideration in GIEK, and I therefore do not want to comment on it further. However, the purpose of the U.S. country scheme is precisely to provide guarantees in cases where the risk associated with the credit is too high to be covered under a general scheme, but where it may be desirable for development policy reasons to accommodate specific development-promoting projects. Therefore, guarantees issued under this scheme require that the project is conducive to development. It is NORAD who formally approves that the project is development-promoting and recommends that GIEK provide a guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1480	I thank you for your answer. I want to follow it up by pointing out that the Swedish Export Credit Guarantee Institute has concluded that the Bujagali project is not conducive to development because Uganda does not have a financial backbone to carry such a large project. The Council of State also mentions the implementation of these projects in line with what is called the wishes of the developing countries. My follow-up question is about who is going to define what is in the interests of the developing world. What remains in these two cases is that the local population has repeatedly protested and claims that they have not been heard, and that construction has started without credible plans for compensation and relocalisation of the local population. My question is therefore whether the Council of State will take a closer look at the guidelines for GIEK in relation to who are the hearing bodies in these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1491	It is important to have a common understanding at international level that the principles on which exposure should be based in such areas. That's why we from Norway also cooperate internationally with others in relation to the elements that it's important to use to provide the kind of guarantees that this is about. On the question of who should be heard, I believe it is important that we have systems that maintain and listen to the recordings that come from the authorities in Norway or in the country concerned, or other countries, and not least with regard to stakeholder organisations that have an involvement in the specific projects. This applies to stakeholder organisations both in Norway and in the countries affected by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1498	I thank you again for the answer. I would like to point out that the situation in Uganda with regard to the Bujagali project is that the local people just claim that no one has been willing to hear their views on the matter. So it's one thing that results in 700 people being forced to move. People have been promised compensation, but the amount of compensation has been constantly reduced. According to complaints, the World Bank has put the project under investigation by its internal body The World Bank Inspection Panel. Nevertheless, the World Bank has provided loans, and GIEK considers to provide a guarantee. The Council of State has pointed out that this is a matter of concern to the public. Nevertheless, the government has the opportunity to address issues like this, and my question is whether the Council of State will ensure that the Government follows up the two issues mentioned here, and looks at what kind of guidelines are being used to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1507	I see it as the representative Lightbakken has an involvement in these concrete projects. What I can do specifically in relation to it is to convey the views and objections that come here to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who is the Minister responsible in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1515	This question, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1518	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘According to the latest statistics of the Road Traffic Information Council, some states are strongly represented in accident statistics, in particular the counties Østfold, Akershus, Aust-Agder, Oppland, Hedmark and Telemark. How will the Council of State address this unfortunate development and will the Council of State consider increasing the road appropriations for these states in the context of our revised budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1527	There are many considerations to be taken into account in the allocation of road appropriations. Reduction of road accidents is one of the main considerations. In the framework of the preparation of the action programmes for the national transport plan for 2002-2011, part of the funds were allocated to items 30 and 23 according to the accident costs in the individual counties. Between 1995 and 1999, the highest accident costs were borne by the counties Oslo, Akerhus, Hordaland, Buskerud and Rogaland. Other criteria used to determine the state distribution include: population, road length and number of vehicles. These are also safety-related criteria. The action programmes for the period 2002 to 2005 provide for approximately a doubling of road safety efforts in the road and vehicle areas. Funds for specific road safety measures over the investment budget have been proposed to be increased by 60 p.m., from approximately 970 million. DKK in the period 1998-2001 to around 1550 million. kr for the period 2002-2005. This latter shows that road safety is also a relatively high priority in most counties in the distribution of investment funds. The number of road traffic injuries and deaths in the individual counties varies from year to year. It is therefore important to assess the evolution of accidents over several years, as one does in the development of long-term strategies for road safety. In view of the accident situation, there is no basis for proposing increased appropriations specifically for these counties in the revised national budget. Any adjustment in the allocation of funds between the counties would have to be taken as part of the ordinary budgetary procedure. At the same time, I would like to stress that a number of instruments other than increased road appropriations are necessary for road safety work. Examples include targeted reduction of speed limits, control of driving speed, measures to combat per mille driving and improved driver training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1540	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The government collects approx. 40 billion kroner a year for car and car use, and only a quarter of this goes back to the drivers in terms of road repair. The counties I mentioned have a high population density, they have a high traffic density on the roads, and they are among the highest in accident statistics. The drivers in these states are of those who pay a lot of money into the state. Is it not reasonable, then, for the Council of State to give priority to these states when allocating appropriations to roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1549	As I said in the answer, there is also an emphasis on population numbers in the different counties when allocating funds in a given way. The fees paid in this area are not earmarked, as the representative is here, nor will they be in the future. So it's not necessarily that where there's a lot of people paying high taxes, it's going to turn back on road investment. I also want to remind you that last weekend we had a racial accident, which then focuses on that kind of security. So it's going to be completely different than what we're referring to here. It is also an important reminder for us that road safety work is very important, whether it is race or other road safety challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1556	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad the Council of State is concerned with traffic accidents. I am also pleased that the Council of State regards racial protection as part of road safety work, but we must bear in mind that it is the ordinary traffic accidents that make up the largest share of the accident in the road picture in Norway. But I thank you for the answer and am satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1566	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The aviation service has long wanted to establish a new fire and breakdown protection training centre for its personnel at its aerodromes. In 1998, it was decided that the training centre of the Aviation Agency should be co-located with the Norwegian Fire School at Fjelldal in the municipality of Tjeldsund. The size has allowed three million. kr for the pre-design of such new training centre. What progress does the Council of State make in order to implement the decision of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1575	The State budget for 2002 provides information on the difficult economic situation of the Aviation Agency and on the high uncertainty associated in particular with the income side. It should therefore be noted that it may be appropriate to return to the Stortinget with proposals for revision of the Aviation Agency’s budget for 2002. In addition, in the budgetary position, the Stortinget specifically requests that the Government carry out a review of the Aviation Administration’s economy and come back to the Stortinget by spring 2002 at the latest. I intend to make proposals for the revised budget of the Aviation Agency in the context of the revised national budget in May. In this context, progress and priorities for all planned investments will be further assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1582	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I do not think the answer is good enough because many years ago it has been planned to add such a training centre to Tjeldsund. When decisions are taken in the Grand Duchy, it is expected that the Government will follow up the decisions taken. Now I also understand that we should have a review of the whole issue in relation to the Swedish Aviation Agency, but we must also take into account that both the Municipality of Tjeldsund, the Coastal Agency and the County Municipality have actually spent 12.5 million. kr i pre-projecting to put this facility in place. I therefore hope that the Council of State and the Government have ambitions to follow that decision even if you get an evaluation of these things. This is also good district policy, so I expected a slightly different response from the Council of State, I have to admit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1587	I can assure you that the Minister for Transport is very concerned that we need to find good district solutions in many areas. I would also like to remind you that with regard to this decision to which it was referred from Stortinget – I was a little uncertain about what decision it was – former Minister of Transport Odd Einar Dørum decided that this training centre should be added to Tjeldsund. Now we have such a situation within the Aviation Agency today with regard to the economy, that we have to see things in context. There are very difficult conditions in aviation in such a way that traffic has fallen dramatically. And as I mentioned, you have big problems on the income side of that reason. We need to look at the priorities we have to set for investment at all levels, and then this training centre must also be included in those assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1594	I am registering the answer from the Council of State, and I expect this to be a matter that is not finished. I expected now to try to advance it a little bit, and that, even if you want an evaluation, you will have to add this training center to Teldsund, as those I referred to instead, have also used a lot of money to get this job done. But I register that we will return to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1602	‘New EU safety requirements could paralyze large sections of fast boat and ferry traffic as of 1 July when the legislation is to be introduced. The safety directives will have major economic and operational implications. This relationship must have been informed by the Government. What will the Government do to prevent fast boat and ferry traffic from being paralyzed from 1 July, and how will the Government resolve the economic and operational consequences of the new safety regulations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1609	The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs has the overall responsibility for safety at sea, cf. navigability law § 3. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs re-sorts under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. However, legislation has a significant impact on freight and passenger vessels, which are an important part of Norwegian transport. In 1998 the EU adopted Directive 98/18 on safety standards for passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages. Following the identification of economic effects and provided for a normal open consultation process, the provisions of the Directive were laid down as Norwegian regulation with effect from 1 May 2000. The Directive and the Regulation provide that existing ships over 24 m are to be upgraded in certain areas in the first year, while the most extensive upgrades for class B ships, small coastal voyages, are to be upgraded to new requirements for the period 2007 to 2010, at the latest, depending on age. The impact on the fast-fleet fleet per year. On 1 July, as far as I am aware, there is little connection with the EU requirements to which Mr Hansen refers. The background is that international speedboat legislation is being introduced and that, following the work of the Sleipner Commission itself, Norway has chosen to give retroactive effect to parts of the legislation also for existing speedboats. It is a discussion of both economic and technical implementation. I have raised questions about legislation and practice with the Minister of Industry, who has again asked for input from the Maritime Directorate. The Ministry of Transport and the counties must, as purchasers of the transport services, relate to the effects once they have been identified and, if necessary, the Stortinget will be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1622	I thank you for your answer. I am initially – and would like to underline – very pleased and reassured that there is a requirement for safety at sea. It benefits the passengers, and that's what it has to be. However, this is a traffic which is part of Norwegian public transport and which is of particular importance for the West and North Norway. It is clear that there will have great consequences if this traffic is to stop from 1 July, because neither the economic nor the practical consequences have been prepared. It is a transport that is done in agreement with the county councils and the state, and therefore we and the minister have a special responsibility to ensure that this can be done. So I have to ask the question again – if the minister can guarantee that this important transport will not stop on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1631	I consider two things very important in this matter. One is that we have an offer in this area that's good for people, and the other area I'm concerned with is that security is well maintained. We've had experiences that we'd rather not have left. Therefore, it is important to place safety in the high-seat. At the same time, I think it is absolutely right that we also look at the requirements in relation to the goals you want to achieve, so that's what we're always going to be concerned about. However, road safety is important, and it is important that we have a good transport offer also along the coast to the inhabitants of this country. With regard to the specific question that we are talking about here, there is a contact with the Maritime Directorate, which is the responsible authority in relation to imposing these requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1640	I like to hear that you are in contact with the Maritime Directorate and that you are working on the matter. But I got no answer as to whether you could guarantee that the traffic will continue after 1 July. It is very important for those parts of the country concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1645	It is clear that it is important that the framework conditions are correct for those operating in this market. Now it won't be right for me to go out and guarantee that we have traffic after 1 July – I assume we have. But what that means, if any, in relation to the purchase of services, to which I am counting on the representative here, is this thing we have to get back to, because we don't know what the impact will be economically until this system is put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1655	‘The local train to Oslo Centre is the main collective service of Holmlia. The offer has gradually deteriorated despite the fact that the route is top priority both at the NSB and at the Railway Station. The railway station informs that last year 457 train departures were set in both directions. Bad train offers force travelers and commuters onto cars, which causes increased pollution in already stressed areas. What is the intention of the State Council to do to improve train provision on the Oslo-Ski route?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1662	One of the biggest challenges of the train offer over Holmlia today is that it is offered for few seats in the rush hours. This capacity problem is linked to a general lack of available train equipment as well as the standard and track capacity. In addition, today's offer has fewer departures than is desirable on Saturdays and Sundays, as hourly departures are run with an addition of eight departures in each direction on the Skøyen-Mysen route. This reduced train offer on weekends is due to the shortage of drivers. As soon as the driver’s situation permits, half-hour departures on Saturdays and evening hours Sundays will be reinstated. The possibilities for further improvements to the offer will be assessed in the context of the phase-in of the new local train sets that NSB BA has in the course of delivery. In the Sem Declaration, the government has given priority to bets on near-traffic traffic, for example: The Oslo area, and will follow up on this in future agreements with the NSB on government purchases. However, such an improvement in the offer will have a cost side that will need to be prioritised against the other train offer included in the State purchase of passenger services by train. I intend to come back to the Stortinget with a closer look at a new framework agreement with the NSB for the years 2003-2005 in connection with the budget proposal for the autumn. In the longer term, provision could be further improved in the context of the development of, inter alia, Ski station and new double track on the Oslo-Ski route, as foreseen in the National Transport Plan 2002–2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1671	I thank you for your answer. The council itself felt that the new double track to Ski could dramatically improve the offer. It also applies to the entire distance down to Eastfold and into the Wysen. With the level of investment of the railway works today, it is unlikely that the new double track will come in the current peak, and barely during this planning period. Will the Council of State, when it comes to collective notification or otherwise, come back to Stortinget with an action plan for investments on the rail side, which will be brought back into line with what was agreed in the National Transport Plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1678	The follow-up to the Action Plan and to the National Transport Plan are carried out in practice each year through each budget proposal. So we come back to this specific matter and to similar issues when dealing with the budget each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1683	It is clear that the railway works have a difficult planning horizon when one has to deal with a budget up to a level of investment that constitutes two thirds of what was foreseen in the national transport plan. Does the Council of State agree that, in order to have good planning, it is important that the Government is already clear as to the level of investment required for the railways in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1690	Yes, it is right that you should have good planning opportunities, there must be clear signals. It wants this government to give. It is important that, through the annual budgets, we show what we really want to bet on. And we'll get back to that – hopefully in many budgets below.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1718	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister of Defence has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-20.ana.ud849e1765	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for the Environment has left. Case No. 1. has thus been completed.
