ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e54	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Hans Kristian Hogsnes – for the rapporteur on the matter, if he is a member of the Laging House.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e63	I allow myself, on behalf of the government parties, very briefly to make a few comments on the proposal that has been put forward here for consideration. In its proposal, the proposer points out that the working environment for pupils and students is currently not regulated by law. In order to improve the working environment situation, there needs to be regulatory supervision and sanctions so that action to improve the working environment cannot be prioritised. I would like to point out here that the Minister of Labour and Administration, in his letter to the Municipal Committee on 15 January of this year, pointed out that the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, on 23 April last year, sent out a consultation proposal on new rules on the working environment for pupils in the Law of 17 July 1998 No. 61 on primary and secondary education. Furthermore, it appears that the Ministry intends to promote a legislative proposal for the Stortinget during 2002 in the light of the feedback from the consultation round. It has also been pointed out that several consultation bodies have raised the question of integrating students into the Working Environment Act, and that from a professional point of view, it was pointed out that the law regulates the relationship between employer and employee, and that situations can easily arise where the interests of these parties cross the interests of the students. In addition, studies in Sweden show that students do not reach equivalent partners through the Working Environment Act. Furthermore, the Council of State letter states that amendments to the Law on Universities and Universities 12 May 1995 No. 22 have recently been consulted. The Ministry of Education and Research proposes to include rules on the working environment for students in the University Act because it seems most useful. I agree with that view. Therefore, the government parties believe that the Storting will be unhappy with the adoption of the proposed proposal, as the process of consulting the Ministry of Education and Research's legislative proposals has not yet been completed. This is a brief and well-founded basis for proposing the matter to be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e72	Today, in many ways, it is a great day for elephants and students. A majority in Odelstinget will this evening say clearly yes to ask the Government to tighten up the law on the working environment of the elephants and students. For many years, the Labour Party has had the legalisation of the working environment for elephants and students as an important matter. This was also a reason when the Stoltenberg government suggested this a year ago. I also refer to the call decision that Stortinget made on 18 May 2000. The working party emphasises three main principles that must be used in the formulation of laws: the physical and psychosocial working environment. Furthermore, it is important to have a good system of participation, where both elephants and parents are heard. And thirdly, there has to be an independent supervision of sanctions. The Labour Party believes that the subjects of law must be included in the special law. Several people have claimed that elephants and students have to comply with the health and safety laws. It doesn't mean the Working Party. We point out that the employment environment law is a law that regulates the relationship between employees and employers. Therefore, one should be careful to include groups other than these in today's work environment law. The Labour Party believes that the managers are just as good and equally strong through other special laws. In the same way that the Government believes the Labour Party that this e.g. may be included in the Law on Training for Students and in the Law on Student Education. Other laws, too, may be up to date. The government has submitted Ot. pp. No 40 for 2001-2002. The Labour Party believes that the proposals there are too weak. Among other things, no proposals have been made for a private learning environment monitoring. The desire for stronger participation from elephants, students and parents is also not well enough taken care of. I notice that the government party does not want to give as strong leadership as the majority wants, and that they are therefore satisfied with what the government has presented when it comes to students, at least on a higher level of challenge, and take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e87	I shall briefly explain the views of the Advance Party on the matter. First, I'm going to pay tribute to the initiative. It is actually an important matter that has been raised. It is also important because at least for a while we have had regulations for at least those students who have not been shown to work, and therefore it may be necessary to walk the road to the law. The Progress Party has comments together with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. We are aware that the government is working on a matter to come to Stortinget. But there are two ways to go if you want to legislate rules and rights related to the working environment for students and students: one is to do it in special laws, and the other is to put it into the law on the working environment we already have in the country, for other jobs. In any case, we want to have this last examined, and recommend that when the work is done and the work is still under way, time should also be taken to assess how it can work if the rules on the working environment for students and students are covered by the Working Environment Act. We are concerned that when investigating this, we also need to ensure that that law is extended to include, i.e. students and students, follow-up is ensured through an independent supervisory body. It is precisely the follow-up to the regulatory framework that has not been shown to work to date. Then it is all the more important that if we get a law of our own that covers these matters, we have to be sure that there can be sanctions if it is obvious that the provisions that are laid down are not followed. We are also concerned that if we are to follow our viewpoint – that is, to explore the possibility of adding this under the Working Environment Act – interested parties must be allowed to provide opinions on the way. We are also concerned that such an investigation must be carried out by external competence, not a department that has already decided what it wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e96	When I was 16 years old, I went from classrooms to classrooms at Åsane High School, the high school where I went. I said I was a socialist, and I wanted to fight for a better working environment and for stronger participation for students and students. It was actually the first time I got engaged ever organized. So I have been working on that matter since 1988, and I am also happy that it has finally come as far on the Stortings table as it is. The point is that this matter I fought with the Young Right and Young Left at the time. For all the people who were involved in the student movement together, struggled to get proper working environment regulations for students and students. We fought for real rights, we fought for more influence over our own schoolwork day and our working environment there. I remember the first time I went to Oslo for a seminar. Then I went to meet John Christian Elden, who led this seminar. He had written special about the particular field of student rights, and he explained exactly what rights we had, and that we had far too few rights as it was. The point is, in the school election campaign and in the election campaign in general, the school question was discussed very much, but I never heard Right talk about student participation. I never heard Right-wing talk about the working environment and the consequences of the poor working environment should have for students the right to put down their feet and for parents' rights to put down when the working environment and the regulations for health supervision etc. are broken. There are three principles which we, as a majority in the Committee, have been able to come up with that should be the basis for proper environmental regulations, which the Government has instructed to provide: one is the specific provisions for the physical and psychosocial working environment; the other is a proper system of participation, and the third is an independent supervision with sanctioning authority. The majority of the Committee agrees that the proposals made by the Government regarding participation schemes and working environment regulations for students are too poor. And we expect the government to try to do something about this towards the review that will end on May 25th in the Committee. But even more so, we expect these three principles, which a majority of the Committee has now laid down, to be reflected in the proposals to be submitted to the Church, Education and Research Committee in relation to work environment regulations that we know are contained in the Training Act. I have to say something about why SV believes that the Work Environment Act is the best place to put these provisions, which we are together with the Center Party and the Advance Party. One relates to the claim that this is not acceptable in the Working Environment Act because the law is initially a law regulating the relationship between the employee and the employer, so the students do not get in. I have been a member of the Joint Committee on Safety and Health at Work. And it is entirely unproblematic to make provisions under the Working Environment Act that regulate the working environment of groups other than workers. When we know that today it is practiced for guardians, the argument that this is not possible falls on its own unfairness. The second is that Henning Jakhelln, of the University of Oslo, to which we can call not exactly the father of the Working Environment Act, but at least the brother of the Working Environment Act, and who is one of those who are actually involved in writing this report to which the Council of State refers, says hard and clearly that the best place to put work environment regulations for students and students is in the existing Work Environment Act. There's a code, we have a dynamics, and we know that there's an independent supervisory body when it doesn't work properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e117	The centre party wants to take the workplace seriously for students and school students. It is now almost seven years since two central party representatives put forward proposals to make the regulations on the working environment applicable to students. There have been many distributions in these years and have been said many good words, but beyond that, there has been too little concrete. Now this is a matter to be brought back to the Education Committee, so just a few brief comments from the Centre Party's side. We are very pleased that this is a plurality that gives such a clear signal to both leaders of the physical and psychosocial working environment, of a participation system and that it must also be provided in relation to an independent supervisory system. We see that it is possible to discuss which legal entity should be associated with the work environment for elephants and students. It may initially be easier for students who are often above authority age. We see that the Labour Party may have a point when they indicate that the Work Environment Act so far is a law that regulates the relationship between employers and employees. However, when it comes to deciding on this further link, it is important to also have an assessment of the consequences of allowing these claims to be linked to the work environment law. We look forward to the further work and completion of the education committee that really makes the working environment better. In these seven years since this proposal was tabled by the Centre Party, there is no doubt that the indoor climate of many has actually deteriorated, and the number of those covered by e.g. asthma and allergies, have supplements, and it is necessary that we get across from word to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e130	The left fully supports the legalisation of the learning environment for students and students, and we have long had this programme fixed. I am sure that the representative Holmås also heard the Left talk about it in the election campaign. We want to ensure physical conditions such as indoor climates, but so important are psychosocial relationships as well as the right of students and students to participate and participate in their own study and school everyday life. The government is now working on such a legalization. Proposals for new rules on the learning environment in the Training Act have been put to the consultation, and the Government intends to make legislative proposals soon. Unfortunately, the draft legislation by the then Minister of Education Trond Giske had great weaknesses. It was primarily a collection of good wishes. It was available, among others. no sanctioning possibilities should the new legislation not be followed up. Without the possibility of sanctions when the rules are broken, the lawmaking of the learning environment is of little value. It will also be made clear in the consultation round. The left assumes, therefore, that the Government will focus on these considerations when the bill comes to the Stortinget. The Left and Government believe that the learning environment is best protected by their own law or as part of the Training Act and the University Act, rather than by the Working Environment Act. The Labour Environment Act regulates a number of relationships between employers and employees, including: leave, dismissal and working time, which do not affect students and students. It is possible, as the representative Holmås says, that this can work for some student groups and for those in need of protection, but for me who have spent a long time on children's rights, children's rights must be protected in completely different ways, and children's participation must be guaranteed in completely different ways than for adults, students, guardians or employees. As I said, the Left is concerned with a good learning environment, and it's more than a physical learning environment, even though this is important enough. Equally important are, among other things, measures against bullying, a safe school day and the protection of students' rights. We need a clearer set of rules and instruments that will prevent us from going so far as to allow frustrated parents to meet with lawyers at school. Especially for students, it can be a big problem that the one you are going to complain to, no matter where you are in the school system, is always the boss of those you have to complain about. Most have experienced in their own school days how difficult it is for a student to come up with problems with a principal and other leaders and get them to deal with people who are under them in the system. It will be easier for both parties when students too have clear rights laid down in a law. In the Working Environment Act, employees have the right to participate in the workplace. Students should have the same right to participation and participation in school everyday life. When students are shown confidence and given real influence, they will also be involved in taking responsibility for their own learning situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e149	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e152	I had to take the floor for what Trine Skei Grande says, because she describes the proposal in the training law that came from the then state council Trond Giske, about the learning environment for students, as a collection of good wishes. I can agree with that, but after the extensive consultation round there was also a promise of tightening up in relation to this. It's now getting gibberish answers for itself. What is true is that the new proposal for working environment regulations for students is at least a collection of good wishes. That's why I think it's a bit rude of Trine Skei Grande to point to the submissions of the former statesmen when it's clear that the government initially didn't intend to do anything about it. What kind of fuse is the students getting in this new odelstningsproposition presented by the Government? At least they don't get a proper participation scheme that gives them any power at all to put their feet down if things go over the line. At least they do not have independent supervision, which is essential in order to overcome bad conditions. The point is that what is proposed in the Law on Higher Education is that if things go really wrong, you have to go to the college. You have to be able to go to the top authority, the top body, to ask if they have the money to fix the situation. The government of Stepe Skei Grande seems to be doing quite well, and that Trine Skei Grande does not react to anything, as far as I can understand, is that instead of giving people individual rights to a good working environment – instead of giving them concrete participation arrangements, where they have the opportunity to learn engagement and participation – you say that if something is wrong, you can go to the principal and ask if he or she is interested in doing something about it. It doesn't last – it doesn't hold a spot. And if that's as bad as what you've been thinking as a starting point for high school and primary school, I'd like to remind you that a majority of the Stortinget in the form of a note has said clearly to the Government about what arrangements we think should be in place when the new proposition comes from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e159	Luckily, there is a long time between each time you experience such a requirement as the Skei Grande representative here performs. First, her party put in government for two and a half years from the 1997 elections without doing any of the world's work environment laws for students or students. Secondly, it's not right that the representative says that our arrangement for the students was too bad. We announced well before we were replaced because of the election result, that we would make a better arrangement for students than what we had originally sent out at the hearing, among other things. in the light of all the opinions delivered. But the worst is what was said about universities. We proposed a scheme with which the student organisations were very pleased, and which meant that a learning environment monitoring body was to be set up, a body that could monitor that the learning environment was good enough. That's what the new government with the party to the Skei Grande has weakened. So standing on the platform here and criticizing the previous government for a proposal that the new government has weakened, I think is quite bold. It is possible that there is a division within the big group of the Left in this matter, and that one hand may not quite know what the other hand is doing, but it must in some way be a limit on how to swing in this hall in relation to running a policy and then stand here and market another. This is not the choice. The choice is over. You don't run a campaign here. Now you run politics, and then it's the concrete proposals that count, not the words you stand on the platform here and say.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 199]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e183	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e194	We've had a discussion in the committee, and we're not going to repeat the main speakers. Because it's so late, and we have one more thing today, it's only going to be repeated at the Council of State. Today we are going to deal with changes in the law on equality, Ot.prp. No 6 for 2001-2002. The main objective of the amendments to the Gender Equality Act is to have a more forward-looking equality law that is suitable for meeting the challenges social development faces. The proposal proposes amendments to the existing equality law as well as some new provisions, including: a new provision on sexual harassment. The majority of the Committee has agreed on most of the amendments proposed by the Ministry, and I am pleased to be the case rapporteur. The changes we are currently examining will provide us with a gender equality law that will be an important and necessary enhancement in several areas for further development of gender equality. We have not come far enough in Norway with this work. The aim of the Equality Act is to promote gender equality and, in particular, to improve the position of women. However, the Equality Act is both a non-discrimination law and a law designed to facilitate gender equality. I am therefore pleased, as the rapporteur, that the majority of the Committee has pointed out that for minority women, the combination of sex and ethnicity puts them in an extra vulnerable position and that this perspective must have an impact on gender equality in general. I had hoped that SV would have a majority in favour of its amendment to Section 1 that the law would aim to improve the position of minority women. Several of the hearing opinions support the SV’s view that the position of minority women should be safeguarded by a change in the legal text. The fact that SV is on its own about this proposal is strange to me when we have had a long debate on integration – a long debate earlier today – that has focused on the situation of women in the minority. It would have been natural that the same magnification focused on this in the Equality Act. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has agreed that establishments required by law to draw up annual reports shall present in their annual reports the actual status of equality in their activities. The employer shall work actively, targeted and planned for gender equality in his/her activities. The annual reports shall set out the actual status of equality. Actions taken and actions planned to promote equality and to prevent discrimination contrary to the Equality Act shall be set out. The Committee considers this to be an important amendment to the law, which will result in equality being put on the agenda of the various activities. The SV wanted the proposal to be extended to include action plans in the various establishments, but we were left alone. The majority of the Committee has clarified that the Labour Law Committee, set up by the government of Stoltenberg on 31 August 2001, is to review and assess the legislation of the Labour Environment Act in non-discriminatory areas and to propose a regulation that can contribute to achieving the objective of working life for all. In dealing with the various issues, the selection must also assess the gender perspective related to discrimination and working time. The majority of the Committee, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, take the view that the Equality Act applies in all areas, with the exception of «internal relations» in religious communities. Here the Committee disagrees and the SV proposes that the law should apply in all areas. The time has come for the Equality Act to apply to the Norwegian Church and the religious community. The Council of Churches, in a hearing opinion of February 2000, states that the intentions of the Equality Act are well in line with Christian ethics, and that the Equality Act is in line with the Norwegian Church's own strategy plan to help women in all positions in churches and communities. It is strange that the majority of the committee does not support the view of the Council of Churches. This is about human rights, and SV, with its proposal, wants to focus on these rights within the Norwegian Church and the religious community. In the course of the debate on the presentation to the Council of State, Victor Norman has already adopted a proposal on equal pay, promoted by SV. Section 5 of the Gender Equality Act now proposes a change. Women and men in the same employment shall have equal pay for the same work or work of equal value. This right applies regardless of whether the works belong to different trades or collective agreements. This is an important change, as in previous cases, the law has used to prevent comparisons between professional groups and collective agreements. KS and NATO and some other organisations disagree with this change. They want market value to be the starting point for wage policy. They are on a collision course with the Storting and the Committee, and this does not promise good pay and equal pay for women and men. Norway has not had a good enough wage development – where the proportion of women is high, wages are poor. We cannot accept that large employers' organisations responsible for the public sector are moving towards equal pay as a goal. Equal pay and equal pension conditions for women and men are absolutely necessary to achieve equality. The SV and the Centre also want to eliminate discrimination between women and men with irregular working hours. The distinction between shift and rotation work is a traditional and unreasonable distinction between women's and men's work. This is contrary to the Equality Act. This has actually been supported. Shift and rotation work must be equalised. Furthermore, the Committee has joined the legal focus on sexual harassment and points out that employers, management of the labour market, organisations, kindergartens, schools and educational institutions are responsible for preventing and preventing sexual harassment within their work area. I am very pleased, as the rapporteur, that the Committee has clarified that this should also apply to kindergartens and schools. We have a negative trend in schools, how many feel sexually harassed — both verbally and physically. Focusing on this is important prevention work. It is also important to give kindergartens and schools responsibility to prevent this happening and to allow them to develop. The Committee is concerned that these serious matters are dealt with in such a way as to ensure legal certainty. These acts are unacceptable and criminal, and the Committee suggests that Section 8a should be enforced by general law. § 21 concerns representation of both sexes in selection. I put in a proposal, as the case-law rapporteur, that the rules of the Equality Act on representation apply to directors of limited liability companies. Public limited liability companies and companies with more than 30 employees shall have at least 40 p.m. of each sex in their governments. State Councillor Laila Davøy and State Councillor Ansgar Gabrielsen went out and promised that they would force companies to increase the proportion of women in the boards of limited liability companies. I am very disappointed that the government parties in the committee indicate that gender representation in directors is a matter that is not covered by Ot.prp. No 6th@item: They point out that the Co-operation Board is to address this issue separately. If this isn't a question of equality – what is it? This is a discharge from the Government Parties in the Committee. It is the government that is responsible for promoting equality in this country. SV will also remove the restriction currently in being able to use only moderate quotas for admission to education, because at the different educational institutions and in different occupational groups there is a very uneven distribution between the sexes. I believe that the Committee has worked well together in this matter, and the majority proposals give us a better and more appropriate equality law. SV wanted to go further, and it is of course still possible to support our good proposals, which I maintain. Since SV's proposal, No. 6, which goes on a limited liability company, well just get our votes, I want to signal that we will support proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e238	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The regulatory time is now over. However, the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e243	On a historic day like this, when we review and improve the equality law after over 20 years, it's important not to forget what it has meant, and what it's going to mean in the future. But the debate on the Equality Act also shows that we have a piece left to go. What makes a Norwegian editor laugh at the idea of quotaing women to governments and councils, and directors to talk about falls in the share price? What makes some young women break out that the problem is out of the question? Yes, it is the word ‘equality’. Let us establish it once and for all: equality is definitely still an important topic in today's Norway. For how else are we going to use all the resources that women represent? And why shouldn't these resources and these women be rewarded in the same way as men? We've been resting on our laurels for a long time. We may have been the world champion in formal equality 20 years ago, but we're not the world champion in real equality. We want a equality law that requires that important bodies in society, not least business and social organisations, take on increased responsibilities. The Equality Act shall provide the right and opportunity for individuals to develop their abilities, irrespective of gender. That's what we've been given in the new law that the Labour Party government proposed. Many believe that in 2002, in a modern, so-called equality society, we have equal pay. But more than 20 years after it was banned, gender still determines pay. In private services, e.g. in the banking service, women have 82 p.m. of the wages and salaries of men. School's the best. Here, women's share is 93.8 pst. The revised law allows for comparison of wages and salaries across trade boundaries and collective agreements. Women and men continue to take different education and work in different areas and in different sectors, even with equal education. If a comparison shows that the works are of equal value even if they are externally different, they should be paid equally. That means that we can now compare relatively different work. There should no longer be any obstacle to a woman such as this. are a nurse, may be assessed against the salary of a male engineer in the same establishment, e.g. within a municipality. It was also proposed by the Stoltenberg Government to strengthen the prohibition of discrimination in the use of permit rights in order to strengthen the protection of men in relation to maternity leave. This provision will help to strengthen the position of men vis-à-vis employers who have little understanding when father wants to avail himself of his statutory right to the parental quota and leave for two weeks after birth. We know that it's only 6 pst. Women in government and advice in Norway, and still the leading economies of industry have only 6 pst. women in senior management positions. Women have increased their competence and are in line with men in higher education. The working party therefore enters for 40 pst. gender quotaing in the management boards. In a society where market forces may have gained greater space than before, it is even more important that women are also well represented where power lies in the different governments and businesses. In 1981, Gro Harlem Brundtland became our first female prime minister, and that same year she also introduced a provision on gender quotas in public administrations and councils. It's been 20 years. Was there anyone who said we were in arrears? Equality must not only be strengthened; it must be governed. Responsibility for promoting equality shall not only apply to the public as today, the Government proposes that an obligation to work for and facilitate equality throughout society and the labour market is legalised. The Equality Act applies to all, not only a few selected. But even though we are working to extend equality rights to the private sector, the public must also take its responsibilities. In some sectors it happens that we are also looking for it. The education sector is such a sector. The number of professors and people in senior positions in university environments is almost 90 pst. men, only 11 pst. are women. Here we must have an active policy. I am pleased that the new government is following up the quota arrangements that we introduced, and I hope that they will win the fight they are taking with ESA and EU legislation in that area. It is pointless if that legislation is to prevent us in an active gender equality policy. Finally, I think it is time to decide that the Equality Act will also apply to the Norwegian Church. The church meeting has established that equality is in line with good Christian ethics. Then it is completely incomprehensible that a party such as the Christian People's Party is going towards lawmaking what is the Church Council's view of what is good Christian ethics. I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e278	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e281	The right is skeptical about quota. I am therefore pleased that the business community now has a chance to step up before quotaing is used as an instrument. But then the Labour Party must not believe that it is so simple that only one quota into a government is all right. Even after a few months of hearing and reading about a more active ownership environment in Norway, owners are still relatively passive. I would like to draw the attention of the Labour Party representative to the fact that the board of directors of an enterprise, consisting of representatives of the same owners, is primarily a body responsible for ensuring the quality of the decisions made by the Director and the management of the enterprise. The board of directors does not design or make decisions, but test them. So it's in the company's management it's important to get women in, more than in the boards. Now it's hoped that more women in the government will lead to more female top leaders being employed and through them, but it's a process that will take a long time. There is no question of quotas in the management, because then we are talking about individual employment and not a representative body. So what we have to do now is get women into the management of businesses, and there are a number of positive instruments here that we can use to make women think, for example. women's networks, deliberate recruitment, mentoring, etc. The equality work is not one thing you do at once for everyone. It's a process that still has to go forward. Today, we're taking another step forward. It's with women's fights as with election struggles. You don't convince anyone if the argument isn't logical and based on the facts. And the fact is that Norwegian business is missing enormous values because they haven't seen the potential of all the well-trained women that exist in this country. In fact, when Norwegian business only recruits from 50 pst. of the recruitment mass, it automatically makes it worse than enterprises in e.g. The United States, which for the most part has realized that gender is not an argument that can be used against a candidate. I believe that we should not passively sit down and wait for the old man to let the women in. Many people think that business has had enough chances, and that we've waited long enough. I still think it's right that business is now getting a last chance to prove that they're going to use all of Norway, and then I'm thinking in that context not in the districts, but on the whole workforce and the whole base of competence we have. I think 40 pst. allowances to directors of public limited-liability companies are a bold instrument and it will be exciting to see whether the business community is able to meet its previous commitments. I would like to remind you that if the business community keeps its promises and gets the share of women in Norwegian company management up to a proper level, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Children and Family Affairs will keep their promises that the quota will not come into effect, and that is a tough challenge. The ministry has proposed an important change that I am very pleased that we finally get, that is, what I see as a clear distance from all forms of sexual harassment. We can't find ourselves in any form of sexual harassment, and we can't believe that women are being harassed, bullied and harassed at their workplaces. When many enterprises now have an obligation to report in the annual report on their gender equality work, some have tried to point out how much more work and how much extra costs it will lead to. To this end, companies that do not have an overview of their employees, who do not have a conscious recruitment policy, who do not have a conscious gender equality profile and who have not started this work, will probably experience this as more difficult than those who are already doing well. I would like to stress that the purpose of annual reporting is to give a picture of what the company has done, and what kind of strategy it uses for gender equality work in the future. It is not intended that large enterprises with hundreds or perhaps thousands of employees both domestically and abroad should report in detail what has been done in relation to each employee. Questions that are interesting are of the kind: What has the company done to recruit female leaders? How many female leaders are there? And how is the enterprise going to increase the proportion of female leaders? Then we'll also go in for a change in the admissions to school and studies. To this I would say that it is important for the individual educational institution to decide for itself. It is also in line with the Higher Education Policy that universities and colleges should have the most autonomy possible. It may also be useful to refer to NTNU, which has had good results in recruiting girls for IT studies and measures aimed specifically at women students. Since Norway's business college in Bergen has been training a number of excellent female economists for many years now, the university itself has set a good example and employed its first female professor. This is just one example of a development in the positive direction, and I believe that more and more women will gradually fall into important positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e302	I'm going to start by being a little personal. I have never quite understood this mass of equality and what it has been in. It is probably related to my being raised with a working mother in a leading position and a father who had to take his part in vacuuming and washing clothes. My mother was not being auctioned or had special support or protection measures. She was simply so capable that she got the job and a good salary. Now maybe it wasn't typical of the 1970s. But there is, in fact, an overweight of women in senior positions who have entered these positions without any quota and without any special measures. If I look at my former partner and my current girlfriend, they're both company managers – without quota and without being sewn cushions under my arms by special measures. Why would they need that? - They're good. And I think that's where the core lies: if you're willing to take responsibility, if you're capable and willing to stand on, you're going to get good jobs and pay well whether you're a man or a woman. I think that today we have a flawed equality policy such as, among other things. is the result of a bias among those who have dominated the debate since the 1970s. These are women who are mainly rooted in the 68th generation and the 'women's struggle' in the 1970s or who are followers of the obsolete tanker from this time. It is time to wake up and see that the times change – per. Today, there is a clear majority of women in our universities and colleges. It will happen that in 10-15 years, we will have women in at least half of the leadership jobs in Norway, which we should also have. The party considers it unreasonable that public resources should be used to protect the rights of healthy, adults, intelligent, well-trained people. We have full confidence in man's own ability to do this, the confidence that women and men know their needs and rights, and the confidence that they can take care of them themselves. In our view, any other way of thinking is an infringement of the individual's integrity and ability to make his own decisions. We have this reason, for example. during the winter budgetary procedure, proposed: the winding-up of State appropriations for the research into gender equality by the centres of competence for gender equality termination of the Equality Ombudsman; We want amendments to the equality law so that other bodies, including the courts and the Labour Inspectorate, are given the task of enforcing the central provisions of the law, including: the provision on discrimination in pay matters. But we record that we have remained alone in our vision. One of the worst things about today's gender equality policy is that there are still considerable forces in Norwegian society, even completely involved in the Government, which wants to pursue yesterday's gender equality policy by continuing to have an indispensable belief in gender quotas. We believe that it must be clear to the sun that an individual who has been given a job or a position because of his gender and not because of his qualifications is devalued on the gravest of society and in his own eyes cannot feel particularly satisfied. As will be seen in the vote, the Progress Party opposes the proposal to include provisions in the Gender Equality Act and the Accounting Act on gender equality reporting in the annual report. The reason for this is that the annual report as a document should provide information to creditors, investors, employees, owners, etc. the financial situation and future prospects of the entity. The report is issued by the board of directors of the entity and is included in the annual report of the entity. In most enterprises, the annual report is from one to two pages. It must be clear that the scope of the information to be included in the annual report must not be such as to eliminate accounting information and the other central purposes of the annual report. The proposal will blindly affect all reporting agents, including all limited liability companies, also Axis companies and other reporting agents that must be regarded as small enterprises, and there may be some of the main problem here. I have to ask: was it not this government that said that they should make it easier for business – not push it down with more customs laws and rules? Instead, you're actually just making it worse. I will end by addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e342	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e345	The size is currently adopting important changes to the Equality Act. Unlike the previous speakers, on behalf of my party, I can fully support these changes. Some of us remember a few years ago – when the Equality Act was passed in 1978. Only one representative from the Christian People's Party Group voted for the Equality Act at that time – the rest of the population needed a little more time. So it could perhaps be said that the Christian People's Party has gone through a "maturity" since then. Moreover, this process of maturation in relation to equality has also been applied in other parties and on a broad scale by the people. In this historical light, we have recorded with some interest that the party is informally identified by some as the ‘most tough’ and ‘best’ in terms of gender equality. However, while there should be no explicit goal for anyone to be the ‘best in class’ in such a case, we have noticed that, according to the Daily Newspaper on 10 March this year, the gender equality director and the Equality Ombudsman state that they believe that the Workers' Party must step up its gender equality policy, while at the same time commending the Cooperation Government and saying, ‘They have achieved good results in a very short time’. Of course, it's nice. Although there have been major changes in women’s roles over the last decades, statistics clearly show that we still have a very uneven gender distribution in education, working life, housework and care for children. In recent years, the Christian People's Party has placed greater emphasis on gender mainstreaming in all policy areas. Women and men shall have equal rights and opportunities. Gender shall not lead to discrimination or pre-distribution in any area of society or work. The Christian People's Party believes that equality means equal pay for work of equal value and that women's position in the labour market is generally strengthened. Equality also means that men take greater responsibility for domestic duties and duties. The changes in the Gender Equality Act are instruments to achieve these objectives. The changes we are adopting today concern, in short, the obligation to work for equality, the strengthening of the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex and the prohibition of sexual harassment. So we can ask, does it really matter if women come more strongly into man-dominated educational institutions and man-dominated jobs? This question was also asked when the women in their time were allocated to politics and the Government. In my opinion, this is not about sex, it's just as much about securing the breadth of the recruitment. If you call for a greater range of management experience and control in general, there will naturally be room for more women. Experience suggests that more women in the college expand the spectrum of opinions. They introduce new approaches to the debate, and the priorities will be slightly different. The size also decides that there will be an opportunity to practice radical sex quotas when entering higher education where women are under-represented. Educational institutions shall decide for themselves whether to make use of this instrument. Radical sex quotas for admission to higher education are too dramatic, but I would like to remind you that in the workplace and in the case of admission to vocational education and training, this rule already applies. Society needs men and women at all levels. Only then will we have an optimal equal society. The point of getting sexual harassment into the Equality Act is that I see it as very important. Sexual harassment is ‘unwanted sexual attention that is a nuisance to the attention of the subject’, and it can be both verbal, nonverbal and physical. The existence of sexual harassment is thoroughly documented. Today, the Employment Environment Act requires employers to protect employees from harassment, including sexual harassment. This rule is important, but it has limited scope. Sexual harassment also affects non-employees, e.g. students/school students and participants in the organisation life. These may be better protected by a provision of the Equality Act. In the discussion on the Equality Act, the biased gender distribution in business has been particularly focused. However, strong business voices strongly claim that there are better ways of getting women into management and governance than quotas. It may be natural to ask why these other instruments have not already been used to a greater extent. The thing is, men have been auctioned into management and run long enough. Now is the turn of capable women. Gender quotaing may mean that medium-sized men are replaced by well-qualified women. Some companies have reported that the form field is being very complicated and detailed when we impose even more reporting tasks on them. To that I would say, the Christian People's Party is involved in making Norway easier. We will maintain the main objective of the provision that businesses are required to draw up an annual report explaining gender equality in their activities — the main objective is to create greater and more systematic attention to gender equality in their activities. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e371	For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that equality laws aim primarily at combating discrimination on the grounds of sex. The law should be both non-discriminatory and facilitate gender equality. The debate that we have had in the media on forced marriages and sexual mutilation among young minority girls and women has highlighted strong reactions among most of us politicians. This is outlawed in Norway and regulated in criminal law as a criminal offence. Measures and responses to these horrific criminal acts that have been discovered recently must be followed up in criminal law. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it will not give minority women better protection if this is regulated by the Equality Act, when so many do not seem to care when it is regulated by the Criminal Code. Gender equality work within the Norwegian Church is running late. In 1999, the Church Meeting gave a title to women’s and gender equality issues in order to follow up on the work of ‘Churches in Solidarity with Women’. In the hearing opinion of the Council of Churches in 2000, it is said that the intentions of the Equality Act are well in line with Christian ethics. That's good to right. Furthermore, the Council of Churches has stated that Churcha is equal to the services of women and men and has a targeted strategy for such equality in practice. Furthermore, the Church Council points out that it has been decided for the longest time that women and men should be equated with accessions to the Norwegian Church. As the Centre Party perceives the Church Council, it is to be actively working for equality, and it is claimed that equality between men and women is in line with Church teachings and practices. But after what is happening today, the Central Party here will follow developments with great interest and see if there will be consistency between life and learning in the practical accession policy of the Norwegian Church. The public debate on the quotaing of women in AS government has engaged many. In 2000, only 6.4 pst. by the members of the board of listed companies women. In spite of that, about 50 pst. Of the country's population are women, so it's just 6 pst. which enters the human-dominated governance spaces. And it was important to note when the Minister of Industry went out and fronted women's representation. Yes, the Council of State Gabrielsen has yet stated that in the worst case he would rewrite the stock laws to force 40 pst. female. I will also give commendation to the Council of Ministers of Deafness for her commitment to the cause. It has been clear to us who have observed the Council of State, that this is something the Council of State is burning for. And with the offensive hold that the Council of State has, I also find it natural that the government party here will give its support to proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and then it will have multiples. Equal pay for equal work has been a repetition of political debates on equality. The majority of adults have repeatedly expressed that this is a fair claim, while the reality of the day is that women are less paid than their male colleagues. Unfortunately, there are no pluralities behind the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's comments that employers are responsible for ensuring that decisions in the complaint topic are followed up. And, in my opinion, the goal of achieving equal pay development in Norway does not have full effect until decisions in the subject matter of the complaint come into effect. The proposition's setting provides a lot of support for non-acceptance of sexual harassment, and that's good. That there is agreement that there is a need for a wider use of rules on protection against sexual harassment than is currently the case in today's legislation will mean a tightening of the legislation and a step further towards what we think is unacceptable, simply sexual harassment at all levels. Finally, I would like to stress that when it turns out that there are in fact a very uneven distribution between sexes in several educational institutions and occupational groups, then we need to look for ways to make this more even and better distributed. Therefore, we fully support the fact that the individual institution is authorised to ensure a smooth admission of students by both sexes. Otherwise, we are waiting for the Education and Research Department's report, which will also deal with gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e391	After hearing the representative Knudsen instead, we have a little bit left. It's a piece to go. And it's not just a walk, but it's also a strong warning that there's reason to be prepared in the years to come. So it's going to be a violation of the privacy of the individual that because of sex it's going to get a position, but that's actually not what we're talking about. That's not the problem. What we're talking about is there's a lot of people with qualifications who, because of their gender, actually don't get positions. And that's where the offense lies. I want to move a little bit to the edge of the equality debate and touch a little bit into the question of sexual harassment. For many, such harassment constitutes a gross harassment, often with root in a sex role pattern where one ruler and the other is incorrigible. The Sheik can appear in many denominations, from the minor and short incidents to the most serious abuses. In general, there are women who are harassed by men. We legislators have long since signaled that such behaviour is undesirable. By Section 201 of the Penal Code, we have even punished those who grossly violate another person by word or action. And it must also be quite obvious that common, more law-abiding principles from before can form the basis for judgment on compensation, also for one who causes harm through such harassment The Storting is discussing today. And there's a reason to ask, is there any reason to get a separate provision on this in the Equality Act? Yes, unfortunately, there's obviously such a need. Both as a norm and as a basis for clarification of reaction, a new provision will have its effect. Management, organisations and employers are clearly responsible for preventing such undesirable behaviour, and the legal text therefore gives a clear duty and encouragement to put on the agenda a theme that has previously been dealt with by or in full — this time with a serious undertone. The consequences of sexual harassment cannot be underestimated. Psychiatric disorders, such as anxiety and depression and physical stress reactions, are the most common. A clear signal is also given directly to the perpetrator of violence. This is not acceptable. To the extent that there has been any doubt about this in the past, the draft law outlines a clear basis, among other things. to compensate them. The law thus provides assistance to courts, institutions, organisations, leaders and others to limit undesirable behaviour. And when studies show that one in five women have been subjected to such harassment in their working lives, there is reason to take it very seriously. Actually, we're talking about a typical psychological violence that is totally unacceptable, and that should involve much more of us. Criminal policy actors who are very high on the ground with strong measures against other types of violence do not seem equally keen in this debate, despite the fact that this is the everyday situation of too many women in the whole country. These included: reason for calling for representatives of the Progress Party when Stortinget last debated violence against women. The hall was empty. No strict words, no radical suggestions from that edge. Unfortunately, the answers to this problem are too small, and the issue is relatively topical in television debates. Perhaps the amendments to the Equality Act also strengthen the public’s searchlight. There's reason to hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e406	No country in the world can boast of being able to achieve full equality, nor Norway. There is no concealment that in some areas of Norway today we have a democratic problem because of the absence of equality. That is why the important proposals to be considered here today will help to ensure that work on equality takes an important step forward. It was the previous government Bondevik that started working on changes in the Equality Act. The proposals were largely followed up by the government of Stoltenberg, which presented proposals for amendments to the Equality Act of the Stortinget in April last year. The proposals were confirmed after the government change last autumn. I would therefore like to share the honour of the amendments, which involve several important steps forward, with many. This says that we in Norway today largely agree that work on gender equality is important. In particular, I would like to point out the proposal to amend Section 1 of the Gender Equality Act, which provides a basis for increased activity for equality. Today's law gives public authorities a special responsibility to promote equality. This was groundbreaking when the law came. It is a crossroads that this responsibility is now to be shared with several. The proposal now imposes an obligation on private employers and employment organisations to take concrete action to promote equality within their area of responsibility. Once this proposal has received a consistently positive response from the hearing bodies, I see this as an expression that society has a great understanding of the value for all of us of increased equality. I think this change will mean a lot too much awareness of our common responsibility for achieving equality. The proposal to document the actual situation and explain the plans and actions of the company will give those who do good work for equality the opportunity to highlight this, while those who do little will see it. I hope that this change will act as a rocket to strengthen women's place in the leadership of the Norwegian business community. It is a problem for business that they do not make use of the most skilled but only choose among a limited group. The proposal to strengthen protection in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and use of maternity leave shall include, inter alia: help to strengthen the position of men in relation to those employers who have little understanding that men too want to take greater responsibility for the care of young children. Strengthening the role of men in caring is in line with the Sem Declaration to work for equality not only in the workplace but also in the families. The government wants to create greater flexibility in working life and to strengthen the conditions for combining care and careers. Equality within the family is an objective in itself, while a more balanced distribution of family responsibilities facilitates the position of women in the workplace. In Norway, we have an occupational activity of women at the top compared to other western countries, 69 pst. in 2000. However, we have a more gender-divided labour market than most, with a low proportion of women in management positions and a disproportionate distribution between women and men. Many women also work part-time. It is necessary to see these conditions in the context of different distributions of salaries and pension entitlements. Although women and men are entitled to equal pay for work of equal value, it is unfortunately still a fact that women have lower earnings than men for an annual work. Most of the inexplicable pay gap between women and men can be linked to what is commonly called value discrimination. In other words, women’s dominated professions are valued lower than men’s. This is unacceptable. The government will ensure that the public takes greater responsibility for contributing to equality between women and men. The fact that equality law now makes it clear that it is possible to compare wages across trade boundaries and collective agreements is important. Getting the key elements to assess whether the work is of equal value into the law should also contribute to making the law more useful as tools in the work on equal pay. The Ministry has also launched a three-year project in which a 20-year private and public sector activity is to assess the salary and value of work done by women and men. These experiences will be used by the Equality Ombudsman in law enforcement. Unfortunately, sexual harassment is widespread both in the workplace, in organisations and in educational institutions and can have serious consequences both for those affected and for the environment around them. Sexual harassment primarily affects women. We must clearly state that sexual harassment cannot be tolerated, and the draft law contains a clear ban on sexual harassment, in Section 8a, and also a safeguard clause to be enforced by the Equality Ombudsman and the Complaints Board for Gender Equality. It is crucial not to consider any infringement, which must be left to the general courts. However, the Ombudsman must decide whether the person responsible has done enough to prevent and prevent sexual harassment within his area of responsibility. There is an important weakness in today's law that violations of the law, such as: circumvention of employment cases has limited consequences even if the Ombudsman is able to establish a breach of the law. Objective liability, § 17, is an increased liability rule and implies that liability is imposed regardless of guilt. The amendment will make the enforcement of the Gender Equality Act more effective and effective and, according to the Equality Ombudsman, is one of the most important amendments. A living democracy means that women and men must be given equal rights and opportunities to participate in and influence social development in all areas of society. The government therefore wants to strengthen the recruitment of women to positions of leadership and to the board of directors. Not least in the board of directors, decisions are taken that are important for economic and social development. Governments therefore provide the basis for power and influence. At the same time, when we see that the proportion of women is at a bottom level, this is a democratic problem and waste of resources and competences. The low proportion of women in both governance and management is also a signal that women and men do not have the same development and career opportunities in their working life. Norway is located in this area far by country, which we see as less assimilated than us. The Government has therefore recently decided to submit proposals for a minimum of 40 pst. representation of both sexes in the boards of all state enterprises, state special-law companies, state limited-liability companies and public limited-liability companies. This is the government coming back to. The proposal will help to make better use of women’s skills in business, both inside and outside the boardrooms. This will lead to positive ring-fences for women's career opportunities and will benefit the entire economy. There is a minority SV proposal to include a new provision in the purpose paragraph of the Act that the law also aims to improve the position of minority women. Let me make it clear that the Equality Act applies to the entire population. In the Sem Declaration, the Government also stated that work on equality between men and women must focus on all members of Norwegian society, regardless of religion and cultural background. Minority women must and must learn that the law protects and promotes their rights. The government parties held a meeting on 8 March with a great collection of women with different ethnic backgrounds, for lunch and debate. It is a fact that there is still a long way to go before everyone experiences gender equality in today's Norway, and we have a large unused resource in many of the highly skilled immigrant women. Unfortunately, many immigrant women experience double discrimination: both as women and in relation to ethnicity. I think of this as an important field that needs to be further worked on, and I want to give this work priority. I believe that the proposed amendments to the Gender Equality Act will provide a timely piece of legislation that promotes desired attitudes, and with sufficient strength and clarity to make an important contribution to social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e443	The Norwegian Church's view of gender equality has changed since the law was passed. As the representative Lånke said, the Christian People's Party has also realised that it is important to take advantage of the experience and reference that women have in everyday life. Yes, even the Church Council has pointed out in its hearing opinion that it has been decided that women and men should be treated in the same way when they are employed in the Church. I hope that the Council of State can agree with the Council of Churches' opinions when they say that discrimination between women and men in employment cannot be justified in the Church's teachings, and that different treatment because of gender cannot therefore be said to have a «close connection with religious practice» in the Norwegian Church. Consequently, there will also be no interference in the freedom of religion if the law was applied. Therefore, the requirement that the provision for the recruitment of benefits should be covered by the exemption appears to have lapsed. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e448	It is stated in the motion for a resolution that this issue raised by the representative had to be addressed in cooperation with the Church and that a proposal would be sent to the hearing in the autumn of 2001. This was from the previous government. This question has not been addressed and has not been consulted. There is a dialogue between the Ministry of Culture and the Church and the Council. Personally, I have also contacted the head of the Church Council and wish in the near future – we have agreed on a meeting – to raise this issue. The exemption for the internal relations of religious communities in Section 2 must also be seen in the context, I would like to mention, with the provisions of Section 2 of the Basic Law, which guarantees the right to freedom of religion, and the provisions on freedom of religion in international human rights conventions, such as the European Convention on Human Rights, EMK, Article 9. The Norwegian Church, as one of many religious communities in Norway, is subject to the exemption provided for in the Equality Act. Consequently, the abolition of this provision would be contrary to the abovementioned provision, and the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progressive Party, also supports this view. We have a job to do before we get that far. At least I'm going to take an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e455	Recent demands have been made for annual reports to contain information on the health, environmental and safety activities of businesses, which has already considerably expanded the scope of the reports. So now you want to expand this to include equality. The risk that the annual reports following such extensions are not suitable as a tool for traditional economic analysis is very high according to industry. The Progress Party believes that it is obvious that the proposal involves considerable work for businesses, especially for those who do not have large human resources departments, and in fact most in these industries. It is also the case, as I said in my main post, that this proposal blindly affects all those who are accountable, including the so-called small enterprises, for which I am concerned. There is also a question of the need within some companies to explain gender equality policy. What about the company Thorvaldsen & Sons in concrete sawing – eight men employed, not one woman in the industry? Equal opportunities within the enterprise may be questioned. What about the three friends who have set up a hairdressing salon and don't have the smallest plans to expand? What about my girlfriend's company, which operates in the flooring industry and has one woman and five men employed? Is she going to write annual reports on how to further strengthen the boss's position? There are some questions hanging in the air in connection with what seems to be being adopted today. We're recording that it's being adopted. I would like to ask the Council of State what she will do to meet the business community and to try to get a practical design of these rules that are going to live with for the small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e462	In the preparation of the law, there was also a discussion related to action plans for equal opportunities in enterprises. Both Sweden and Finland have a statutory obligation. It would be a much tighter and much more comprehensive determination for business. So we have chosen to go to an increase in the obligation of activity and a statement in annual reports or budgets regarding equality. It's not about making arrangements for difficult forms and investigations. It is a matter of writing a brief notice in the annual report stating that equality is a matter of concern, that simple steps have been taken to ensure that this is complied with. It's up to the company how much they want to write. But I want to mention that maybe the Progress Party is a little old-fashioned when they don't want this into the law. In the United States, Canada and a number of other countries, you are very concerned about this. They fulfil their duty of activity in the field of equality, with joy, and in the United States they say quite openly that they are regarded as a market advantage that people can read in the annual reports that they are concerned with equality. It's just a plus for the companies. In Norway, we have a project supported by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, where 60 enterprises in the private sector are involved in an experiment, in a project where they work with an activity obligation and an account of gender equality in annual reports. It's a lot of enthusiasm, and I personally believe that this is an advantage for the companies. They have a competitive advantage when they actually choose to put equality on the agenda and use the resources that women represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e471	I am very pleased with the fact that the Council of State came along in relation to annual reports. Much of the other thing she said in her post here, I fully agree. I was also very pleased when the Council of State Gabrielsen went high on the track and promised to force the companies to increase their share of women in their governments. Government parties do not want to change the equality law so that the gender representation rules of the Equality Act also apply to limited liability companies. I guess we've all realized that there's been a drag fight in the government and discussions, where you've withdrawn what you said in the first place. How will the Council of State accelerate this process, and does the Council of State really believe that we will get a higher share of women without a change in law? And when does that investigation come from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e478	It has been an exciting matter to work with, and although the representative did not exactly ask, I can say that we have come to the conclusion that, just in the case of private limited liability companies, there has been no desire to implement this arrangement. There are very many small corporations in our country, and it might be unreasonable where there was one employee, as it is often in these companies. I have had such a business myself. Now I happen to be a woman, but at least we think that some companies are so small that we don't want to impose this system on them. In this case, we work intensively. We have started work and are well started, and I expect that we will be able to promote the law either at the end of 2002, i.e. until the autumn, or at the latest at the beginning of 2003, so the law is not far away. So ask the representative if I think we get this done without changing the law. It's actually up to business. They've had a long time. In 2005, when the law is to be implemented, they have had 10 years since we first started this discussion. At least that's long enough, and I'm not going to hesitate to put the law into effect if you haven't achieved the sex quota per. 1 January 2005. That's the Government's intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e487	Let us first note that in the matter of gender quotas in enterprises, the Government, at least the Minister of Industry, has been up like a lion and down like a skin trap. When the matter comes to political reality here in the Chamber, it is actually only the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV who have concrete proposals that can actually lead to these changes. But my question concerns another matter, and that's the Church. In our remarks, we say that in relation to equality in the Church, we can no longer see that what has to do with inner faith makes it relevant to exempt the Norwegian Church from the Equality Act. It is not that a religious society is normally exempt from legislation. Of course, the Norwegian Church is subject to criminal law, it is subject to the Accounting Act, and it is subject to occupational health and safety legislation. It takes a lot more to exempt a business or an activity from Norwegian law. Therefore, it also needs to be quite deep religious questions to exempt a religious community from the Equality Act. Now the Norwegian Church itself says through the Church Meeting that equality is in line with good Christian ethics. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Why is the Council of State and the Government against the law that Christian ethics should apply in the Norwegian Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e496	It is today an exception for religious communities, and there are more religious communities than the Norwegian Church in Norway. The reason why the Government and I want to wait for this is that we will do this in cooperation with the Church. We do not want to take the initiative on our own without the people involved having been in conversation with us. And in any case, such a proposal should be examined and sent to the hearing. It's not just, I think, to make a decision on this from the Storting without them being involved. It was also the intention of the government of Stoltenberg, which did not happen. It's also in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e502	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e505	There's a lot of things that upset me by the Equality Act. It is, as we know, superfluous in our view and does not have the intended effect. Most recently on Monday you can read that girls prefer the traditional. Maybe it's actually the way girls today want to choose without being run by the public? I'm so lucky that I know a number of these young girls, and I don't exactly see indecision and uncertainty as a common sign of these -- strong, beautiful, young girls making their choices. And now let's let them make these choices without the government regulating them to jobs they don't find meaningful. The principle that seems to have stuck in a number of parties is that we women are a protected sex that needs special treatment, and that we, women, are so little able to take care of our interests that we need a law that takes care of us. It may seem that very many women have to sit around in the political environments with poor self-esteem and self-confidence, when they feel that the only way to achieve equality is by law. I refer to Section 3 of the proposal for a new equality law, which is in favour of special treatment for one sex. The party of progress is probably the only party that actually has the belief that men and women have equal ability and willingness to act on their own behalf. In the 1970s, when women's labour was necessary and all persuasion arts were used to lure them away from the kitchen bench, it might be necessary to break the road and change attitudes. But this is 30 years ago, and fortunately, progress has been made for both men and women. For me and certainly for more than me, the equality law is nothing but a law that discriminates against women. Some parties believe that we women are still «the weak sex», which is neither capable of asserting our right nor able to make our own choices. Yes, it is believed that women need a special law to get into jobs that they would not otherwise have had if they competed on equal terms with men. This is discrimination, and the parties that still have this narrow and discriminatory view of women in 2002 should take a trip out of this house as soon as possible. I think they'd be surprised at what they got to see. There are other laws that can address some of the issues covered by the Equality Act, such as: the law on health and safety at work and the penal code. You don't need your own minds to be judges in cases that are affected by this law. That's why we have courts. There have been established equality committees, gender equality agencies, gender equality directors and gender equality centres, and if we are to believe what we are reading, this has not helped the least, at least not in young girls' professional choices. And then this is nothing but wasted tax dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e524	When I listen to Karin S. Woldseth, I understand why the Advance Party doesn't have to work hard to get more women into the party. But it was a bit of a crossroads. I must also be allowed to comment on Mr Rafiq's contribution. «Rights are skeptical of allowances» she said. Then she actually said that the rulers didn't make decisions. I have to say that I am very surprised at that. In fact, I've understood your way of making decisions. The board of directors are very important to recruit more women, and we're going to say that the board of directors actually employs directors. So it's probably not quite right that the government, the council and the selection have no authority. When Odelstingen is about to deal with changes in the gender equality law, some will probably claim that we have achieved full equality between men and women in our society. More people have been involved in this idea today. On paper and in theory, it might look like this, but it's a long way until real equality is achieved. Gender equality policy affects all areas of society. All departments and other public authorities, such as counties and municipalities, are responsible for promoting equality as an integral part of their fields of competence. It is important to view gender equality as part of family policies, in order to facilitate both women and men to combine professional activities with family responsibilities, and to encourage a more balanced distribution of care and economic support between women and men. Of course, the size should not interfere with wage negotiations, but it is important to point to the proposal for amendments to the Gender Equality Act § 5: «Women and men in the same activity shall have equal pay for the same work or work of equal value. The right to equal pay for equal work or work of equal value applies regardless of whether the work belongs to different subjects or whether the pay is regulated in different collective agreements.The equivalence of the work is determined by an overall assessment focusing on the skills necessary to perform the work and other relevant factors, such as effort, responsibility and employment.Wages refer to the general remuneration as well as to any other supplements or benefits or benefits or other benefits provided by the employer.» In the vote, the Committee wants to extend the gender equality law to sexual harassment, and that is of course absolutely necessary. Of other changes, it is important to point out that employers and social partners are required to take action to promote equality. Actually, this should be a matter of course, but when a reader reads that the boss of DnB expresses fear that the stock values should fall with such quota requirements, one might wonder whether the banking crisis and problems in Kvärner are a statement that men are better suited. I think it is necessary to go in to ensure, through legislation, at least 40 pst. by both sexes of the boards of all public limited-liability companies and public limited-liability companies. We also believe that the Church needs the equality law to apply. And the Church Council itself says that the intentions of the Equality Act are in good harmony with Christian ethics. It's amazing that we haven't had a majority for our remarks. In other words, the Christian People's Party, which is constantly saying that one should listen to the Church and the Church meeting, will not do so in this case – and that is a sin. We're going to be proud of the Equality Act. It's like a horse-hoof in the spring, which, despite obstacles, sticks its yellow head forward. The Equality Act encounters opposition every day, but justice will triumph in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e557	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e560	I'm not going to help prolong the debate on a late night like this, just add something to what I said in my previous post. Some companies have reported that they think this form field is becoming very complicated. They're charged with a lot of extra tasks, and this can be hard to carry too many. We have some understanding of that. I just want to make it clear that the main purpose of this law and of the provision requiring them to draw up an annual report explaining gender equality in the enterprise is, first and foremost, to focus more on gender equality, more systematically on gender equality in the enterprise. But when that is said, I would like to stress that for us, no action is in itself sacred. It's only about instruments. We do not want these legislative changes to stop or reverse the important and necessary simplification work that the cooperative government has started. We believe that increased focus on equality and the simplification work of the cooperative government must be combined. I want to underline that in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e567	I wish we had started earlier today so that we could get into several areas. I'm not going to go into the articles of the Progress Party here. But there is one thing I feel as case rapporteur that I have to clarify. Trond Giske was in the middle of it: there are a lot of things in this society that are dealt with by several laws, and it's important, because then you can get them illuminated more places and take them up more places. For example, sexual harassment is initially under the Working Environment Act. What amazes me is that minority women should somehow be kept out of it. The Socialist Left believes that gender-based persecution and coerciveness are also sexual harassment, as well as the examples in the proposition, and there are many of them. This is a problem for different women’s groups in Norway and should be mentioned in the Equality Act. This is not only true for minority women, it is true for religious communities in Norway, for women living in hidden places, and for women living in our crisis centres. I can't believe that this committee was so opposed that we took this in. They say this has nothing to do with the equality law. Now the Council of State has been involved – and I fully agree – that minority women have a particularly vulnerable position, both because they are women and because of ethnicity. This law is not a law that deals only with inequalities between women and men. This is a non-discrimination law. I think there have been many strange posts where it is said that this should not be discussed here, but it is clear that it should. So I would say that many people have written in their file comments that sexual injury is not addressed in this law. Now I was the case rapporteur who initially committed sexual harassment, during sexual harassment. I drew that, because I was hoping we could reach an agreement in the committee that this was going to take place. There's no place in the proposition, it's not in any notes, but there's more that have written in their comments that it's not to be addressed by the law. It seems kind of strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e578	I note that the Council of State is going to put the question of Christian ethics to the hearing, and it's probably a procedure. But not even the comments that refer to the Church Meeting’s view of what is good Christian ethics could be in the Party of the Council of State. And it might make you wonder if that's how the Christian People's Party might not even agree with what the Church meeting has said about good Christian ethics within the Church. With regard to the issue of equality and quotas in private enterprises, the representative Rafiq said that no very important decisions were taken on these boards; it was almost a kind of audit body. That can't be right. It is in these boards that the main strategies for companies are adopted, and not least in these boards the management of these companies is adopted. If you want to have equal opportunities in the powerful directorships around Norway, it might help to achieve equality in the boards that employ the directors. Finally, just a correction in connection with that I took up the proposals. I want to "untake" a proposal again, to say it like that. Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, in the event of an incurrency, is still included in the position, but has been incorporated into the position of the Committee, so it is not included.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e587	The President has noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e590	I just want to correct an obvious misunderstanding. I didn't say that governor has no power. But what I said was that they have limited power over management. And if we want to give women more power, it's into the management we should make sure they come. But when that is said, I just want to go back to what SV has been about. It is that equality can only be adopted to a limited extent, as it is typical for the Workers' Party and the SV to do every time we have a challenge, in most policy areas. Equality is, as I said, a process that goes beyond time, and where it is important to have good dialogue with all parties. With regard to SV's proposal that the law should also apply specifically to minority women, I disagree with that. I think it's important that we have a law that's general and that applies to all women who are being discriminated against. I am glad that SV is standing alone on their proposal to start pointing out individual groups within the law. In fact, I believe that the value of the law – both this and other laws – can in the long term be weakened if the law is not general and universal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e599	I would like to make a few comments on two issues that have been raised in the debate. It was claimed by the representative Sollied Superior that equality goes very late in the Church. It depends on what you compare to. In fact, I don't think there is any organization in the Norwegian community that has such a good distribution in governing bodies and councils that the Norwegian Church has. There's a good deal going on the outside of most political parties that are represented in this room, and I think that's why the statement needs to be nuanced. What's right, of course, is that it takes time before there are enough qualified women trained to evenly distribute into performance positions. That is, of course, correct. But it will hardly change the least by using the legislation. And here I must be allowed to post a little comment to Trond Giske's posts. The fact that the Church meeting in the Norwegian Church has stated that equality is in line with Christian ethics is not the same as the Church meeting in the Norwegian Church having asked for the Norwegian Church to be legally treated in a special way in relation to all other religious communities in that country. It's simply mixing the cards to argue that way. Of course, equality is in harmony with Christian ethics, but it is not said that the law should impose on all Christian religious communities opinions that are not present in these religious communities. It would be a little special if we in Norway, for example, were to demand that the Roman Catholic Church, in order to be allowed to practise in Norway, should accept female priests, when everyone knows that this is contrary to the teachings of this church. It seems obvious to me that it would be equally unreasonable to make special rules for one of the many Christian religious communities in this country in this area. So a small comment: I am pleased that the majority of the committee, all except the Socialist Left Party, has established in connection with § 6 that the starting point for admission to education must be an individual assessment of whether the individual meets the admission requirements and that the best qualified applicant is to be admitted first. That should be obvious, but sometimes it is necessary to say the same thing of course. I think it is right in connection with this provision to also point out that the problem where there is a marked difference in gender distribution in higher education is not there. There is a very different place, namely that there are not enough applicants from the underrepresented gender. And that problem is not solved by radical sex quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e612	The representative, Rafiq, and I'm talking a little past each other. But let me make it clear that we want to get women into governments, councils and selections, so that they can sit in these boards, councils and boards of directors. And then I hope that it will not only be the "Guteklubben Grei" sitting and sitting down, but that we share the experiences and competences that women also have. At least I'm sure that when the Workers' Party was fighting for sex quotas in its time, we were intrigued and actually a little bullied by other parties because we were driving something so silly. Had we not done so, I think I dare say that there might not have been so many women who had dared to try out politics. The fact that we worked on these things has made it clear to other parties how important it is for both sexes to be represented in society and in politics. And if we're going to be honest, maybe there's more people in this room than we like to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e620	Just briefly to the representative, Afshan Rafiq. Right, Christian People's Party and SV have a note where it says: ‘... would point out that for minority women, the combination of gender/ethnicity would tend to put them in an extra vulnerable position, and that perspective would have to shape gender equality work in general’. It's just a little sentence in the legal text you haven't been on. Here we point out that this is supposed to affect the equality process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e630	The President must remember that all speeches must be addressed to the President. Trond Giske has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e635	Only cards of the Representative for the Remuneration. First of all, if today's trend towards university development is followed in terms of women, we'll be far past 2100 before we have 50 pst. women in senior management positions. That is why I think radical measures are needed, and I am pleased that the Minister of Education has a different view than the representative of Wage on it. So to the argument about the Norwegian Church. First of all, I think it might be a little special to equate the Norwegian Church, which includes 85 pst. by the Norwegian population, with other, smaller religious communities. Secondly, the question is: exemptions from what? The answer must be: exceptions to the general legislation in Norway require a specific justification. It cannot be that because a different, smaller religious community in Norway has in its teaching that women cannot be priests, the Norwegian Church, which now has in its teaching that women can be priests, must have the same exception from the Equality Act. The logical thing is that the Norwegian Church, as far as it is within that doctrine, is covered by the general laws of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e644	I'm a little bit uncertain about what the statistical calculations that were presented refer to. If this was true of all forms of university education, I think the calculation must be directly wrong. If this was meant to apply to one particular education, namely theology education, since it was the Norwegian Church that was the main point, I can tell the representative Giske that it is already more than 50 pst. female students. And if you write it out and calculate normal life, I think it's hard to get to 2,100 before it's going to be roughly equal distribution. So I think there has to be something in that calculation that's not right. To the second point in Giske's posts, I have to say that one of the most bizarre things I've heard is that freedom of religion is to be determined by the size of a religion. It will apply to small religious communities, but not too large, if I understood the reasoning correctly. What kind of understanding of the concept of «religion freedom» that underlies it, I should have liked to have been further investigated. Now the representative Giske has used up his speaking time, so it'll be on a later occasion. But I think it's a relatively unique understanding of the freedom of religion in the world context you'll then introduce in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e651	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 199]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e667	The background for this document no. The 8-proposal is that the government withdrew a similar case in the autumn, because it wanted a complete review of the organisation of child protection and of where responsibility should lie, whether it be municipality, county or state. The proposers considered this too important to postpone it and therefore promoted this document No. The 8th proposal. There should be no doubt that the Committee considers it very important that children placed in child-restraint institutions should be brought up as safely as possible. It is clear that it is often traumatic for children to be torn out of their families and placed in institutions. The Committee has noted that the proposers wish to propose a new provision allowing the Ministry to lay down rules on the quality requirements for child protection institutions, as well as a specific authorisation system for private institutions. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has already sent three different proposals for the organisation of child protection to the municipalities. The majority of the Committee considers it important to look at the overall provision of child protection as a whole and that it is therefore natural to await the outcome of the hearings in the municipalities and the proposal notified by the Government. The majority of the Committee therefore recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. For the Progress Party, child protection is a very important issue in several areas. Of course, like both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we are very concerned that children living in institutions should have it safe and sound. Of course, there should be quality requirements for all child protection institutions in order to avoid any form of congestion for children under public responsibility. But the Progress Party seems to be right to look at the total child protection offer in order to ensure this. If there's a total reorganization of child protection, it's going to be wrong, as the Progress Party sees, that you're already putting in leadership that might have to change in a few months. That's why we choose to take the debate when the proposition comes to consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e684	Legal certainty needs to be strengthened for children and young people who need a place in a child protection institution for shorter or longer periods of time. Children placed in a child protection institution are often in a particularly vulnerable and vulnerable situation. Therefore, we need to ensure that institutions are not used that are not adequately able to carry out these difficult tasks and that do not have a sound standard, both professionally and materially. It was on that basis that the government of Stoltenberg last June sent a bill to the Stortinget to impose clear quality requirements on all child protection institutions. This would apply to both public institutions and institutions owned and operated by private actors. The proposal also provided for the introduction of a specific authorisation system for purely private institutions. Before the proposal was promoted for the Storting, it had been at the hearing. 64 Hearing Officers delivered an opinion and the proposal was generally accepted by the Hearing Officers. This proposal drew the Bondevik II Government. The reason why children and young people have to live in a child protection institution for shorter or longer periods of time may be a failure of care at home and/or the development of behavioural problems by the child. Many of the children therefore need both care and treatment, and it is of great importance for their future development that the institutions used are able to meet the specific needs of each child. The main emphasis of today's child protection institutions – 60 pst. – is still owned and operated by the public. Private organisations or foundations own the remaining 40 pst. This includes both non-profit and humanitarian organisations and commercial private actors. The quality of national child protection institutions varies in both public and private institutions. In recent years, much has been done by public authorities to close down the worst offers. However, although most child protection institutions now represent good and safe care bases for the children and young people living there, it is equally well known that there are still exceptions. That is why the Labour Party in the Government has put forward proposals on the system of approval for child protection institutions, and that is why we are promoting the proposal again through a Document No. Eight proposals. Such quality requirements will include, inter alia: provide for professional requirements for the establishment, staff requirements and competence of staff. Furthermore, certain minimum material requirements will be imposed, such as: the institution's buildings and equipment are adapted to the age and needs of children. Following the proposal, institutions which do not meet the quality requirements will not be able to use them. As mentioned above, a specific authorisation system has also been proposed for the purely private child protection institutions. In order to be approved, a private institution must be operated in accordance with the Child Protection Act and the regulations of the law and must comply with the required quality requirements. Otherwise, the institution must operate properly. It is also proposed that the approval should take account of the need for the institution in question in the county. Today, some counties have an overloading in institutional settings, while other counties have few institutional places in relation to their own country’s needs. The Labour Party believes that it is important to ensure a fair distribution of institutions in the country, so that as many as possible children and young people are offered institutional space in their own country, unless, for the sake of the child himself, distance is required. Quality requirements and authorisation schemes are one of several instruments to help ensure the quality of child protection institutions. An approval system is a pre-clearance of an institution, but it will not be able to establish the quality of the institution once and for all. Active supervision of the institutions will therefore be necessary. The draft law therefore maintains the existing provisions on the supervision of institutions. It is regrettable that the Labour Party is alone in this matter, but it is clear that it is more important for the other parties to have the level of administration that will be responsible for child protection in the future than to provide the weakest children with security in their difficult everyday lives. The Stoltenberg government felt that this was so important to them that waiting for clarifications at administrative level would be wrong. For the Workers' Party, legal certainty, the level of care and development of children and young people in the institutions are most important. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e712	Eirin Faldet has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e715	Placing a child or youth after coercive decisions in a child protection institution is the most comprehensive responsibility a society can take on individuals. Serious issues arise before such decisions are taken. There may be neglect in the home, drug abuse and major behavioural problems. In any case, the public assumes responsibility for the care of the child or the youth when a coercive decision is taken, or by a voluntary takeover. It cannot be stressed enough that the public must be absolutely sure that an offer adapted to the individual child can be offered to the child or to the young person, that the institution has certain standards in respect of housing, and that the staff have qualifications that can provide care and other services needed by the child or youth. The public has not had the capacity or priority to expand the public intervention apparatus in order to meet the needs of child protection institutions. Many institutions are therefore run privately. Unfortunately, there is no consistent agreement between the county councils and the institutions. We know that children and young people live in private institutions such as does not receive the services and offers they are entitled to, even if the costs are high. We have too many examples of children and young people being placed at home and in institutions without public evaluation of their location. They are located in different solutions that do not meet the individual needs. An authorisation system for child protection institutions is urgent. We cannot accept that a single child or a single youth is misplaced, whether it is a lack of qualified staff, that there is not enough school provision, or that there are other shortcomings. In the worst case, we can make the damage bigger and the problems bigger than they were initially. The development of violence among children and young people and its severity now require political action. The killings in Moss this weekend are a good example, where one of the targets, 19 years old, has several judges, and where child protection has been inside the picture. We need to be sure that the offers we offer have the quality and professional skills that are necessary if we are to change the negative development and achieve results. I hope that the Government can reconsider its position and support an authorisation system for child protection institutions, regardless of the future of county and child protection. If such an authorisation system leads to the closure of certain child protection institutions, better solutions must be developed in public terms. We cannot look at and accept that young people are going to die because they are not getting adequate help, and that others become victims of blind violence with – sometimes – death as an exit. The Socialist Left also wants a variety of different forms of placement and institutions. It is absolutely necessary to meet the different needs, but we believe that there must be stricter standards of quality and standards. I would like to point out that the Socialist Left Party will continue to be the driver of a good offer for the children and young people who are placed in child protection institutions and in other coercive measures. Finally, I want to make the Storting aware of the precarious situation of the statesmen. Since the 1993 legislative changes mandated the government to supervise the institutions, there are now daily breaches of the legislation. There is a marked disparity between the statutory inspections and the day-to-day cutback of the implementation of these visits due to a lack of financial resources and resources. This, of course, has taken the Left Party seriously in its budget, and we have strengthened the appropriations for the statesmen by 33 million. kr. We're also going to deal with this in the future. The Socialist Left Party and the Centre have repeatedly advocated the introduction of authorisation schemes for child protection institutions, on the grounds that this is a serious intervention in the life of a child on the part of society. In that case, society must have a similar level of security to ensure that the offer meets the needs of the child. SV therefore supports the following proposals together with the Centre Party: «The Government is asked to draw up an approval system and quality requirements irrespective of the treatment of the future of the county and the location of the child protection system.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e744	May Hansen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e747	All children who are placed in child protection institutions for different reasons are very vulnerable, and the minimum requirement for us policymakers is that we do everything we can to ensure that child protection institutions are quality-secured. This should have been done years ago. The centre batch has expressed, in several respects, the need for quality assurance by all child protection institutions in the form of an authorisation scheme. Unfortunately, it has not been plural for it in Stortinget, and I would remind you that both under the government of Gro Harlem Brundtland and the government of Jagland, the Labour Party said no to approve private child protection institutions. I am therefore pleased that it now seems that all parties see that there is a need for a change in the law to ensure that these children get the best possible supply, when e.g. failure of care means that the public must take responsibility for ensuring that this group is brought up safely. For me and for the Central Party, it is important that the Department initiates this work as soon as possible, and the argument to see this in conjunction with the ongoing review of the county council's tasks is, according to the Central Party's opinion, a far too defensive view. In fact, I would say that it is unfair in relation to the needs of children and young people and in relation to taking their needs seriously. When we also know that there are still changes from the Government that are contrary to the division of tasks decided by the Storting in spring 2001, it is even more important that this is addressed immediately. It's fastening these kids. In fact, I want to challenge the Council of State when it comes to a concrete issue. How long can the Council of State accept that it will take before we have quality assurance for the benefit of children? The Central Party wanted the Ministry to file a case with the Stortinget immediately after the hearing notes I know sent out by the Council of State were received. But there won't be any plurality in this room, and to show that this is a serious matter, an urgent matter for the Center Party, I therefore recommend my group to subsidiaryly support the Workers' Party's concrete legislative proposal. We're afraid that this is going to go out on time, considering everything that still comes from the Government when it comes to the county councils and the tasks that existed to them today, and that are now going to meet a very uncertain time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e760	The only reason for the withdrawal of the proposal was that the Government considered it necessary to clarify the future responsibilities of child protection institutions before the Stortinget adopted an authorisation system. As you know, the issue of the future organisation of county tasks in the field of child protection is triggered by the treatment of St.meld by Stortinget. No 31 for 2000-2001 on the division of tasks between municipalities, counties and countries. In my opinion, it is not possible to deal with the issue of the assignment of tasks and the approval system independently of each other. This is made visible not least by the fact that the county municipality has just been proposed as an approval authority in the proposal for an authorisation system promoted by the Stortinget of the government of Stoltenberg, which has now been promoted again by the representatives of the Bekkelem Orheim and the Fallet. If it is proposed and subsequently decided to assign the tasks of the county council in the field of child protection to a different level of administration, the issue of the approval authority needs to be reconsidered. That is why I believe that the issue of future organisation needs to be clarified before any legislative changes relating to the authorisation system are adopted. On 12 February 2002, the Ministry issued a consultation note containing alternative proposals for reorganising the tasks of the county council both in the field of child protection and in the field of family protection. Proposals for quality requirements and approval arrangements are included in the consultation note. It is clear from the consultation note that the Ministry will propose a basis for setting quality requirements and an authorisation system for private institutions, regardless of the alternative option chosen for the future division of tasks. The hearing period for the abovementioned hearing notes expired on 5 April. The Ministry is now reviewing the many hearing opinions received. The government will then address the issue of the future division of tasks and the organisation of tasks of the county council in the field of child protection. If it is decided to submit a proposal to the Stortinget involving a new organisation, the proposal on quality requirements and the approval system, including the approval authority, will be included in this proposal so that the Stortinget can see these issues in context. If it is decided to maintain the current organisation, proposals for approval schemes and quality requirements will be submitted to the Stortinget immediately after this clarification has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e771	I forgot to say that SV also supports the Workers' Party's proposal. There is no contradiction in adopting it and moving this authorisation system to the level of the county protection of children. It's sad, I don't think you've got this in place. An approval system and quality requirements, irrespective of the treatment of the future of the county municipality and the location of the child protection system, do not depend on where it is located if only the quality requirements and the approval system are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 202]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e786	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3. The president will notice that we're lucky, because we have enough people to vote. The president would've just said it!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e809	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party and Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 3, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Senter Party proposal No. 5, by Mrs Knudsen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, No. 6 and 7, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, is not stated. The President first takes note of the proposals. One, three, six. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a change in Section 55a of the Working Environment Act so that it has reference to Section 8a of the Gender Equality Act.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals to amend the Equality Act and the Share Act to ensure at least 40 pst. of both sexes in the boards of all public limited-liability companies and public limited-liability companies, as well as publicly owned special-law companies. In addition, the law shall apply where the State appoints members to govern foundations. The rules shall apply to privately owned public limited-liability companies, but not privately owned limited-liability companies. The new legal provision is introduced as soon as possible, with the date of entry into force which gives companies time to implement the change. No derogation shall be granted after entry into force.’;» Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Equality Act and other legislation governing the composition of the board of directors of companies, so that the equal representation rules of the Equality Act also apply to directors of limited liability companies. Public limited liability companies, listed companies and companies with more than 30 employees shall have at least 40 pst. by each sex in its directors.’» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e868	The President will vote on the motions for resolutions. 7 and 2. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7, from Socialist Left Party to § 1. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Act on Gender Equality is amended as follows: the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 1 is replaced by the following:The law also aims to improve the position of minority women.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e890	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on equality shall be amended as follows:Article 1 new third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The law shall be interpreted in accordance with the UN Convention on Women’s Rights.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e936	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e948	The President will then vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, to Section 2. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 2 shall be replaced by the following:The law shall apply in all areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e1039	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e1074	There is an aberrant proposal for this proposal. That is proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Equality Act, Section 8a is replaced by the following: It is not allowed to expose another to sexual harassment. Sexual harassment means unwanted sexual attention that is detrimental to that attention. [[Sexual harassment]] Sexual harassment is regarded as discrimination on grounds of sex.Employer and the management of organisations or educational institutions are responsible for preventing and seeking to prevent sexual harassment within their area of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e1188	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e1201	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e1213	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-lower.ana.ud1403e1220	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Eirin Falldet, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 2, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party reads as follows: «The Government is asked to draw up an approval system and quality requirements irrespective of the treatment of the future of the county and the location of the child protection system.» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will propose that the vote be taken first on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the Act amending Law 17 July 1992 No 100 childcare services
