ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e82	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Mette Korsrud, has taken the seat. The representative of Gunn Olsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e90	On behalf of Britt Hildeng and myself, I would like to propose changes to the rules of public health for long-term sick people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e95	The representative, André Kijkestad, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e98	On behalf of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Per Ove Width, Per Erik Monsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for the transfer of Police College in Oslo and its activities in Kongswinger and North Odal to the former Air Force School Centre in Stavern.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e103	The representative of Haakon Blankenburg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e106	On behalf of Thorbjørn Jagland, Jens Stoltenberg, Gunhild Eyegen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to set up a people's fund for Palestinian refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e111	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e125	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e136	Document No 8:50 for 2001-2002 is a proposal by Per Sandberg, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Karin S. Woldseth on measures to combat the use of threats, violence and sexual harassment in vulnerable family environments. The proposal contains nine individual proposals. None of the proposals received a majority in the vote. The Committee has seriously addressed the problems of gender mutilation and coercion, and there are many measures in place to combat such abuses. The Committee also held an open consultation in the Grand Duchy on 1 March. A majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, has initially pointed out the importance of the principle of non-discrimination as a basis for examining the proposals for measures promoted in the vote. There is also a broad political consensus that the country should comply with its obligations under international agreements and international law. Gender mutilation is one of the serious issues that have been addressed in the setting. Gender mutilation is prohibited by Norwegian law. In fact, although the law was passed in 1995, no one has yet been convicted of a breach of the law. We have to take this seriously, because we know that it happens. The Committee would therefore encourage the active use of the prohibition. The Progress Party has made proposals for parental accountability for the implementation and exposure of gender mutilation. The Progress Party also wants to introduce mandatory annual health checks on pike and young women at risk of gender injury, and to increase the penalties for violence and threats to their family members. The Committee is committed to preventing sexual mutilation and to punishing those involved. But the majority, all except the Progress Party, do not believe that the proposals that the Progress Party has made will help those who are being hit, and will not prevent them either. The majority have been committed to targeting the actions undertaken in order to ensure their effectiveness. The majority will therefore not be in favour of mandatory health checks on special groups because they do not believe it will work. Moreover, it would be discriminatory. School health services need to be strengthened. More and more comprehensive health surveys are needed during school hours. Several studies increase the risk of exposure. Child protection and health care must cooperate on arrangements that can capture, motivate and take action to reach those who do not meet with health controls. These prisoners today up almost 100 pst. It is also necessary to clarify the duties of health professionals, teachers, child protection workers and social workers and the right to report to the police cases of sexual harassment. The obligation of professional secrecy must not be an obstacle. The Committee asks the Government to clarify the relationship between professional secrecy and the removal and alerting obligations in such cases and in relevant laws, so that it can act in the best interests of children. A majority of the Committee will not be in favour of increasing the penalties for sexual harassment now, but will await the work of the Penal Court, which is in progress. The most important thing now is not to increase the penalties, but that the penalties we have are being used. Citizenship and withdrawal of Norwegian citizenship have been the subject of a heated debate in the past week. Yes, someone has even suggested making people stateless, even though we know that it's impossible. But there are people who have dual citizenship, and who also use it actively, among other things. in matters of coercion. We can't accept that. Therefore, a majority, all without the Advancement Party, asks the Government to consider the dual citizenship system and come back to the Stortinget on such a matter. The Labour Party and the Advance Party will also ask the Government to assess the possibility of sanctions in the case of persons committing criminal offences after they have become Norwegian nationals. Forced marriage violates law and human rights. This is often about marrying women in order to ensure non-Norwegian men's residence and work permits here in the country. No one has the right to control the lives of others. Everyone has the right and the freedom to choose their own life and to whom they want to marry. Forced marriage is prohibited by law in Norway and is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years. We must demand that immigrants follow our laws and that they respect human rights. Several parties have made a number of proposals aimed at preventing forced marriage. One of the proposals concerns the prohibition of the marriage of cousins and cousins. A majority, all without the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, believe that the ban on sibling childhood will not prevent anyone from being used as a commodity to bring other family members here to the country. In the event of a ban, it will be easy and then also lawful to marry, for example. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. A ban will also be difficult to control, and it will affect those who want to marry on their own initiative. There is no direct majority in the vote to tighten up the conditions under which family reunification can be granted and housing is also required. But it is clear from the comments that the Committee wants the Government to do so. The working party believes that the owner-occupier should also be required. There has not been a majority to raise the age limit for family reunification to 24 years. The majority believe that the exemption must be tightened when a spouse is under 18 years of age and that a derogation must only be granted in exceptional cases. When the majority do not believe that raising the age limit is a good solution, it is short and good because these marriages will still take place at a young age in the country where the other party lives, and that they will have children and wait until they become 24 before coming to Norway. Everyone knows that then integration becomes even more difficult to achieve. Now we don't have to mess it up even more in our integration process. We cannot continue to have it so that it is the religious communities themselves that control the marriages, and that they are concluded in line with Norwegian marriage law. Marriages with alternates are still taking place. The Foreign Affairs Directorate confirms that such marriages are accepted in the processing of a residence permit. I think such a marriage is pointless. It must be banned. We should have a separate body to approve if the formal terms of marriage are in order. A mandatory interview with both parties must also be organised before marriage. The Labour Party believes that such an interview must be conducted before applying for family reunification. So the most important thing in the entire setting, and it's about integration here in the country. In this area, we need to improve significantly. The best solution to avoid all the problems I have now gone through is to achieve a better integration policy with binding demands on individuals to learn Norwegian, learn about Norwegian society and Norwegian labour. For the Workers' Party, it is an overall political objective that all newcomers should become self-assisted as quickly as possible, both economically and in relation to participating and working in society, in line with the rights and duties of the rest of the population. We have therefore proposed, and have received support from the Central Party and the Socialist Left, to introduce a compulsory programme of introduction both for refugees, for those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, and for those who are allowed to live for family reunification with them. This should be implemented as soon as possible and at the latest in the State budget for next year. It has been tested in several municipalities for a number of years. It works very well, and now we have to take the next step. It is therefore very surprising that we note that the Progress Party in the vote will not be in favour of such a proposal, when you can read in the vote on the conditions that the party believes may act as a barrier to integration: unwillingness to learn Norwegian reluctance to acquire knowledge of Norwegian social conditions, etc. The proposal on which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are united contains just such requirements, which will prevent the barriers to integration highlighted by the Progress Party. It is therefore impossible to understand that they do not support the proposal. Finally, I would like to include the Workers' Party's proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e186	The representative has taken up the suggestions she has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e191	The working party set with the government power for half a year – the foreign field included. It was a time of poor efficiency and long proceedings in the UDI. Trade power seemed then to be an unknown concept for the political leadership of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The new minister is doing a great job cleaning up. At the same time, the Workers' Party has become more verbally offensive, although some of their proposals involve kicking open doors, because the Government is now either working on the matter or promoting action. What has happened in the last six months that explains the apparent will of the Workers' Party for action? Is it that you've gotten out of the government quarter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e198	I would like to remind the representative Gitmark that when the Workers' Party was in government and Sylvia Brustad was the municipal and regional minister, the cleaning up that was needed in the UDI started. A number of measures were taken, which, of course, did not have full effect during Brustad's state council, but which I am very pleased that the Solberg Council has followed up. Eventually, we see that the measures work. I fully agree that there was a need for very many new measures and for a clean-up in the directorate. We now see that this will cause us to have shorter processing times, and that we also get shorter queues in our receptions, where we now have so long queues that we have problems dealing with and caring for those who come here. Then ask the representative what happened in the Workers' Party. I believe that the Workers' Party has recognised that we need to have a better integration policy, and that we cannot be satisfied with the fact that we have managed to solve this in a way that serves both Norwegian society and immigrants. That's why we think it's so important that we now start at the end where we have to start, by giving the immigrants who come here to the country an opportunity to integrate. There is no point in using stricter penalties and other measures, which we will be voting against today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e205	I will first be allowed to correct a misunderstanding. If the representative eye looks up on page 11 of the opinion, she will see that the Committee is united in the context of the introduction programme. The Progress Party supports and has for many years proposed mandatory language and knowledge training. The case-rapporteur, Signe Eye, was also concerned with this with health studies. There she said that the committee concluded that it would not be useful and that it would not help. Then I would like to ask the case rapporteur to look up in the setting on page 4, where it says: ‘The Committee considers that several health studies may increase the risk of exposure if one is exposed to sexual mutilation. Therefore, more and more detailed studies may have a preventive effect.’ This means that the Committee supports the intentions of a proposal for more frequent health studies. My question to Eye and the Workers' Party is: What is the reason why we cannot get together on such a decision now? And another question: the Labour Party's attitude seems a little strange to me, because in the debate following the tragic killing in Sweden earlier this winter, there were several representatives from the Workers' Party who were on the job and promoted proposals that they saw as most necessary to address the integration problem, among others. promoted Karita Bekkemelm Orheim's proposal in relation to the marriage of cousins and cousins. Is it so that the Workers' Party is divided, or is there any other thing that makes the Workers' Party unable to join the Advance Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e219	It is true that an overall committee agrees verbally on the nature of an introduction programme. But it is also true, as I said in my speech, that the Progress Party does not support the proposal. And we all know that it is the proposals that work when we are going to press the Government, and therefore it is incredibly strange that the Progress Party will not support the proposal. We believe that this must now be done, and that must be done quickly, and that must be done at the latest in the budget for next year. That's why it's so important that we now get this fixed here today. As regards health checks, the representative Sandberg says that the Committee is following up on what the Progress Party proposes. No, we don't. There is a significant difference between what the Progress Party proposes, whether almost gynaecological studies of girls from special environments from 1 year up to 18 years of age, and what the rest of the Committee proposes. I was in a debate with Carl I. Hagen where he compared these investigations to EU car control, and then you can imagine what kind of vision you have in relation to these girls, who had to meet, and perhaps be picked up, every year to have such an investigation carried out. We don't want to be in on that. With regard to the issue of marriage between cousins, there has been a democratic process in the Workers' Party where we have landed at the position that stands in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e228	In the setting on page 8, the Labour Party and the Advance Party agree on a note that: ‘There is a need to review and tighten up the concept of family with regard to the right of foreign nationals to reunite with their relatives who have resided in Norway as a result of marriages’. It makes me a little worried, along with the things Signe Eye said in Political Quarter yesterday, that there is a need to tighten up the overall migration of family reunification. I believe that the Workers' Party is bringing together the number of people who come to family reunion, and measures to ensure that something is done in relation to forced marriage. I think there's a problem here. The Labour Party must be careful and not go into the progressing party when they are suffocating the two sides of the debate and talking about a tightening of family reunification. The working party will not be able to consider imposing age limits in relation to family reunification, and they will not be able to consider imposing restrictions on cousins and cousins, and then my question to Signe Eye: What kind of family reunification is it when the Workers' Party wants to do? So I want to say one thing in relation to this integration, because it's right that one of the things we have to work for is a better integration of people who come to the country, and people who are in the country. But this is a two-sided process. It's not just about doing what the Progress Party says, that is, demanding immigrants. We also have to give people rights, and that's what we do when we say that we want an introduction program that gives people the right to something other than social welfare. And it's very important to achieve better integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e242	I'll do the last one first. I fully agree with the SV representative that we must give immigrants a chance to establish themselves in the Norwegian community. They will be offered an introduction programme that will enable them to get a job and live off their own income. We know that if you don't give such a boost, which might cost something in the first place, it often results in you having to go to social assistance or get dissatisfaction and live off it for the rest of your life. Here it's supposed to be an offer, and we're going to require them to implement it within a reasonable time. The time perspective is also very important in this matter. When it comes to tightening up family reunification, the Labour Party believes that it is important to also review that legislation now, because there are some who get family reunification with people who are not in a straight-up or descending line. We should be able to tighten up a little bit here, but we're going to exempt minors, because they're not going to get hit by this. So the representative thinks it's strange that we don't want to increase the age limit for family reunification. Yes, it was one of the difficult things that we carefully evaluated, but, as I said in my post, we think they just stay in the country they are, and then they come here when they become 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e251	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e255	Unfortunately, there are largely dramatic events that trigger the immigration debates in our country. In a short time, two different things have shaken us and put our minds in the boil and got the political environment on track. The honor killing of Swedish Fadime resulted in a stream of Document No. Eight proposals here in Stortinget. And the tragic killing of two young doorkeepers in Moss night to Sunday has caused both police and some politicians to make more or less unfortunate statements. It's easy to let emotions take over when tragic events take place. It is difficult, but the more important to be sober and sober, and to keep your head cold. The opposite will only lead to stigmatisation of some groups, thus reinforcing negative and hostile attitudes. It is wrong to conduct the immigration debate on such a basis. Unfortunately, I find that this time, too, some people have been out quickly with light-profit games that do more damage than the benefits. The newspapers, on the other hand, I want to say that, have been both nuanced and reflected. It's probably true that the price is the same for young people with a foreign background who don't do anything criminal. It is true that the daily newspaper writes in its editorial of 16 April: ‘The world experiences migrations that can best be compared with people’s migrations.’ The world has caught us. Globalisation is a fact. We have to deal with that and take the consequences of it. That is precisely why we have also taken on international obligations in relation to the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. That is the basis for the policy we are going to pursue. Equally important is the principle of non-discrimination. Everyone shall have the right to claim his values, to follow cultural traditions and to practice his faith, provided that this is done within the framework of Norwegian law and fundamental human rights. It is a prerequisite for good integration that all those living in Norway have the same rights to legal certainty, and women have the same rights as men, regardless of which religion they belong to. The stratum of coercion and circumcision is illegal, no matter who you are. Our laws safeguard the interests of those who are exposed to threats, violence and sexual mutilation. We have the right to ban sexual mutilation, and we have child law on the content of parental responsibility. Further accountability of parents in legislation is therefore not necessary. However, it is a cross-repudiation that so far there has been only one notification, and since the ban on sex mutilation was introduced in the Penal Code in 1995, no one has been convicted of a breach of the provision. Clearly, one here has to start using the law actively. If the criminal framework is known enough, it will be considered in the context of the follow-up to the proposals of the Penal Peace Commission. There is no reason to advance this process to the right. The assessment has to be comprehensive and coherent, and different impacts have to be assessed. The right may not support a requirement for annual mandatory health control of sows and young women. Trust in health centres will be undermined. Today we have good experience with health controls, which are voluntary and have almost 100 pst. digestion. The proposal of the Progress Party is stigmatising to the minority groups concerned, and the target population could be deterred from health controls. And then we didn't achieve anything. The loss of citizenship is currently governed by the European Convention on Citizenship of 1997. When the Progress Party will consider revoking an assigned Norwegian citizenship in the event of an infringement, it will be to go all the way across international law. The right is clearly opposed to a ban on the marriage of cousins and cousins. Introducing general prohibitions or making general legislative changes to address some specific issues is not a good solution. The old law ban on marriage between siblings was lifted before 1918, and after that, several Nordics married their siblings. Furthermore, a ban would be unmanageable in relation to the groups to be taken. We have long seen that we are facing major challenges in the field of foreigners. Not only does the flow of asylum seekers increase, the queues have long overgrown us, and have led to very many people having to stay on a humanitarian basis, because of the 15-month rule. The receiver has not worked at all and the integration policy has not received enough attention. We now have a government that clearly sees the problems and grasps them. It is of great importance for a successful integration policy that the laws and regulations are not only in place but that they are best complied with and used.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e290	A successful integration policy is the key to success for foreign citizens coming to Norway. If we are to achieve equality and inclusion, those who come to our country must acquire the necessary knowledge of Norwegian and knowledge of our working and social life. This is, in fact, the basis for a successful policy in this area. Today, however, the situation is unsatisfactory in the two areas that I mentioned. Therefore, action needs to be taken to get us into a new track, and this is urgent. Some other things will actually be inevitable in the situation we're up against. The Labour Party and the Multiplicity of the Municipal Committee propose that we have a mandatory introduction programme. It shall include refugees, those who are being detained on a humanitarian basis and those who are being suspended for family reunification. The programme shall be compulsory, so that it is equal to everyone, regardless of the municipality in which they live. The representative, Holmberg, said in the «Policy Quarter» yesterday that the Labour Party is running symbol politics. That, of course, is not correct. I think that the view that the representative made yesterday is difficult to understand by those who are in a very problematic situation. My question therefore goes to the Right-Representative, and it goes like this: Why won't Right support the proposal for an introductory programme? The time is overdue, now it is actually about having the strength and the willingness to take concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e303	I fully agree with the representative Sandberg that knowledge of Norwegian, social and cultural knowledge is essential for a good integration policy. In fact, it is absolutely fundamental, and we agree on that. I also fully agree with the representative that we need concrete action. There I am very reassured that we now have a government council that has also shown in the foreign field both the willingness to act and the ability to act, and I know that the government is working under high pressure with a number of measures. In this context, I refer to the attached Action Plan for Re-action against Forced Marriage, to the review of the Foreign Affairs Act, to the work of the Criminal Felon Commission and, last but not least, to the follow-up of the Government in relation to the decisions taken by the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 17th of last year. As far as the introduction programme is concerned, we all have a common note where the intentions are clearly stated. This is important, we have to work on it. But the right won't press the government, we'll let the government evaluate the whole theme consistently, and then launch the introduction program. I am quite calm, because I know that the evaluation reports are very positive, and I know that the government wants to introduce the introduction program. But let the government look at the conditions and consequences, so that we can do it properly and thoroughly, and don't rush here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e310	The right hand side is now the most immigration friendly. They've fixed that for themselves. But what kind of disappoints me is that the representative Holmberg continues what was a bit of the content of yesterday's debate in 'Holmgang', that individual matters create debate based on feelings taking over. And then my question is to the representative Holmberg: When does the Right want to take a debate? The party of progress has tried to keep this debate at the same level, regardless of individual pisodles, so at least it can't be due to feelings in us that take over. In this context, I would challenge the representative Holmberg in relation to some authorities that have stood up and in a way criticised immigration and integration policy, and would like to challenge the representative in relation to what police director Ingelin Killangereen said yesterday. She said the following: «Immigrants are less criminals than norsemen. But they are overrepresented in an area that is particularly ugly and unacceptable, and there is a great potential for conflict around them. It has all societies with many ethnic groups.’ My question to Holmberg is: does Holmberg share that statement from the police director? And in case Holmberg shares that statement: Is it stigmatizing? Is that generalizing? Or is there a statement that comes about because the feelings have taken over?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e322	I must first complain to the representative Sandal in the Workers' Party that the wrong name was used. But now it's the representative Sandberg who's going to get an answer. I did not see the debate in 'Holmgang' yesterday. I was at another meeting, so the script was probably written before the debate in 'Holmgang'. The question was, When does the Right want a debate? The right is always prepared to debate immigration, but it is most constructive when the debate takes place under calm circumstances and in a climate that does not put the feelings too much into action. And here I am at the heart of what has probably been a problem in our country, and still something I see as a problem: that the immigration policy of the Progress Party – and I would say in fact the attitude of the Progress Party in some areas – has probably caused other parties to calm down a little. The immigration policy of the Progress Party is stigmatizing and conflict-making in my view, and it is not that easy for other parties to discuss. The Killangerene's statement I expect is fundamental, and I expect her statement to be based on statistics. When she says that immigrants are less criminals than norsemen, but use more violence, we know that it is worrying, and that that violence is largely among young men who are well over 20 years old. In the case of children, it's better. And it also tells me that in many areas we work very well with our integration policy, and then I think about the work being done in the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e333	SV has on several occasions made concrete proposals that the Right has voted against, and that could have done something about some of the acute problems we have now seen. We've had proposals before on introduction programs that we know would have improved integration. We have had proposals to improve the care of minors, single asylum seekers and to put this under the protection of children, so that they can be closely followed and cannot drift around alone without any contact point in society. We'd have a more stringent knife law and a more stringent weapon code. It has not been appropriate to discuss it and agree to it. When you deal with this in an emergency situation, it's inappropriate. It's a problem that it's not possible to discuss and get through these things when you're in a calmer phase, but then you're met with all the counter-arguments. However, when it comes to determining whether family reunification would be restricted, for example: at age, or in the case of fats and cousins, the Right already knows all its consequences and concludes. They don't want it figured out. SV has not concluded on these things. We have asked for it to be investigated, because we believe it is wrong to close that book now, before we know it, and before we have investigated it in peace and quiet. The right-hand side says no to that. And then finally, we have made a number of proposals in this position to finance the necessary emergency measures: foster homes, homes for crisis, necessary funds for human resources with quality and competence. This won't be on the right. Isn't it really that it costs too much money, which makes the Right can't vote for these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e342	This representative is relatively new to this pulpit, and the learning curve has been steeped in the last six months. I have to admit that the representative Karin Andersen had an introduction with some elements that probably also had some history in them that I cannot stand here and explain. I actually had a little bit of a hard time understanding where Karin Andersen wanted to go with his introduction. In the case of siblings, we've said clearly, it's not right to adopt anything here when we don't see all the consequences. When we choose not to vote in favour of some specific proposals, it is precisely because of what I said here earlier, namely that it must be much more correct that the Government should be determined before any action is taken. Seeing the whole and the context is far more important than making urgent decisions that may be negative because one has not seen all the side effects. Then I realized that Karin Andersen wanted to go to you that when we're not on a decision, it's because it costs too much. I'm actually proud to be in the Right, which is a party that conducts an economically responsible policy. If we're going to be able to continue our welfare development and continue to be a good society, we're totally dependent on an economic policy that enables the country to master the future. Norway is not alone in the world, we depend on the world around us. We need to interact with the rest of the world. We must then be competitive with others. I think I stop there by saying that I feel comfortable with our policies, both in the field of immigration and in the economic field. And there's no contradiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e353	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e356	It was interesting to hear the end of the last line, that the Right is interested in cooperating with the world around it. It has been no more than three weeks since the Right voted against Norway also joining the EU's immigration policy and labour immigration policy. So it can't be completely consistent what's said by that team. Today, we are going to deal with a lot of issues. The Municipal Committee issued five issues on asylum, refugee and integration policy last Thursday. There are two more issues that we are going to deal with today. All of these things can be said to have come into the wake of the debate that was pulled up earlier this winter, but they also have the background in that Norwegian municipalities, perhaps the Norwegian people, the police, those who are mostly working on integration, have signaled that we are on the wrong track. That is why I am pleased that in all the positions that are on the table today, there is the movement of the other parties in the direction of the Progress Party. There are large parts of concessions from the other parties. If we are to conclude with one thing in relation to these matters, and in particular in relation to Document No. 8:50, which we are dealing with now, is that the Progress Party has in a way achieved a whole range of areas, but that the other parties are still characterized by some naivety and some cowardice. What we have to take inwards is that today's immigration policy has changed. Today, the institution of asylum is in a way powdered. It is exploited in all possible ways. I would describe the new immigration policy as a major problem in relation to trafficking in young people, and that is family reunification. That is what is fundamental to the proposal under consideration. Because what has resulted from the purchase and sale of young people is that a lot of young people have come to Norway, and there are a lot of young people who have grown up in Norway, who are being terrorized in a way, losing their freedom because of some cultures and some traditions — some cultures and some traditions that Norway imports. I've gone so far as to say that we have to stop talking about first, second and third generation immigration. In fact, the situation is that we're still in the process of first-generation immigration. We're still taking in a generation that has a culture and a tradition that belongs to the past. It's one of the big problems. Therefore, of course, it is disappointing that there is still some cowardice when the other parties do not dare join the proposals of the Progress Party. I hear a lot of arguments about these proposals. Two representatives today have emerged with total ignorance when talking about health research. The representative Eye and the representative Holmberg are still going around and believe that a health study of young girls is a gynecological examination. Anyone who knows what a sex mutilation results in knows that you don't need a gynaecological examination to check if it's happened or not. There have also been other signs of ignorance. To give an example: when a most up-to-date and respected journalist in the evening post on the leader’s side performs to compare arranged marriage and forced marriage with ‘blind date’, nothing has happened to the debate in Norway. Then we have not understood what the problem is. That's why at least I've spent a lot of time talking to the people who've been exposed to these actions. Last Monday I had a meeting with a lot of people who are living in refugees today, and they support the intentions of the Progress Party proposal. But of course it is not possible to adopt a proposal and forget all the others. They have to be seen in a context. I see that there are some parties here that think about the age limit, and some people who think about the dependability burden and the dependability and the housing obligation, but it has to be seen in a context. If we really believe that we should take measures to prevent more girls from being sent out of the country and being compulsive, we need to see this in context. If we raise the age limit to 24 for family reunification by marriage, and if at the same time we make demands for dependance and residence, we will prevent that. Then there is no reason to send these girls out to get them married. I am sorry that it is not possible to go further in the debate. Then I might be allowed to say – quickly, for the time being – that the Progress Party will, of course, support the proposal for a mandatory introduction programme. Of course we do. I'll go a little through several of our suggestions: We don't get a majority for compulsory health examination. I see that the others use a lot of arguments to increase the penalties. I can agree with that, if it is such that the penalties are not applied today. But experience shows that increasing penalties also increases penalties. So for me, you can do both – you increase the penalties, and then we make sure that the penalties are better used. In the case of Norwegian citizenship, I listened to the representative Holmberg, who has totally misunderstood. She has totally misunderstood and doesn't know what this is about. It is regrettable when we are in Stortinget and are going to take such decisions or consider proposals. Today, there are many people who have dual citizenship. In fact, there are many people who are not allowed to get rid of one of their citizenship, for example, the girls who stood up this winter. That's one of the problems. One of the biggest problems of Nadia was that she had double citizenship. But that doesn't make sense to the right. I'm sorry. When it comes to the general prohibition of marriage between cousins, I see that at least some of the parties are on their way to assessing it. I don't see it going to be so controversial. I can't see it. It also has another side that I've documented quite thoroughly, that's medical reasons. With regard to the dependability and disposal of owner-occupied dwellings, there is movement. Why can't we now make a decision instead of having this assessed further, and let the government work on it, as the Right here says? Finally, I would like to say a little bit with a background in yesterday's debate on 'Holmgang'. There were a number of people calling for cooperation. We need to pool the resources, bring together the competences we have around this with integration. I agree with that, because I think it is a problem that there are so many bodies working on integration. It is clear that integration goes beyond all fields, and then it may be time for us to do what they have done in Sweden, and the same thing they have done in Denmark, and just to make sure that there is someone responsible for it – a department too. That is why I would like to put forward proposal No. 26, and all of our other suggestions that are in the position. I will come back later today with an explanation of vote on all the other proposals, because I see that I do not have time for that now. Proposal No. 26 is that we recommend to the Government perhaps to consider whether we should not have an Integration Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e386	The representative Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e392	From time to time, one can get the impression that the Progress Party, for its part, believes that the problem is integration, while the other parties believe that there is a lack of integration that is the problem. It's a challenge in itself. But I am pleased that the Progress Party in the post announced that it would vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, on a compulsory integration programme. I think that's actually one of the most important measures to get better integration, and you get more language skills and more knowledge about Norwegian society, and you don't meet those who get to stay in Norway with social assistance, but with some kind of work and pay. But when I raise the question of integration, I will also draw attention to a topic in NRK Radio this morning. I registered that the Progress Party is now largely pointing to what is happening in Denmark. In Denmark, therefore, experience has been gained with negative effects on integration through the strengthening of private schools in such a way as to have immigrants in one set of schools and others in other schools. Does the representative and the Progress Party see the dilemma that a policy to strengthen private schools and the privatisation of the school system can actually help to strengthen the problems of integration, and that through that part of the Progress Party's policy, it is actually helping to reinforce the problems that the representative in the speech so strongly pointed out to the need to reduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e401	I just want to remind the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen of one thing: In the case of compulsory Norwegian training and compulsory community training for immigrants, the Progress Party proposed the first time 11 years ago. We have proposed it repeatedly over time, and Schjøtt-Pedersen and the Workers' Party have voted against each time – every time. But, of course, I am pleased that a joint committee in its comments is now supporting the proposal the Progress Party has been trying to fight for ten years. For ten years we've done it! It is only natural that we support that proposal, of course. In the case of private schools, I would just like to remind Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen that the Progress Party is the only party in Norway that has taken the order to stop the establishment of Muslim schools. In this regard, I think I can share some of Schjött-Pedersen's scepticism in setting up private schools, based on the situation we have today, where both Schjött-Pedersen's party and all the other parties admit that integration policy and immigration policy have failed. The setting here recognises, and admits in all the other settings, that immigration policy and integration policy have failed. Then it's natural that we have to be a little careful with setting up private schools in terms of individual cultures. I agree. But when it comes to setting up private schools in general, the Progress Party is stuck on the programme and what we have done in previous contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e408	First I have to remind the representative Sandberg that SV has been in principle against religious private schools no matter who establishes them. The SV and the Progress Party seem to have a fundamentally different starting point for this debate. SV wants integration and multicultural society to succeed. We don't have an explicit goal of getting fewer. The progress party seems to have it as its starting point. That's where we'll split up. We have agreed on a number of instruments, but there are thus many essential pieces missing in the policy of the Progress Party, and I want to challenge Sandberg on that. Here it is about getting down together with more people who now see that integration policy is too bad to see if we can find any solutions. SV has been doing it for many years. We have had many conversations, including: with the police, and what are they telling us? They say: Don't take away all the good helpers – all those who make kids and young people from minority communities, from Norwegian environments, those who are poor and fall outside, all those who are not included, have a place to be and some adults who care about them. It's about the recreational club, it's about the kindergarten, it's about a good school, it's about all the cultural activities that are so important for one to be seen, for one to evolve, for one to be able to belong to a place other than in the crowd outside, who sees you and praises you when a person dares to walk with a knife, and when a person dares to fight. On that track we lack the Progress Party. It doesn't just help with rules and coercion and punishment. If we are to prevent it, we must prevent it. The police need these good helpers, the kids need these good helpers, and the parents need these good helpers. Can the Progress Party soon begin to assess this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e417	I don't think the representative Andersen needs to remind me of anything about SV's policy. But it is true, as the representative says, that in some fields the SV meets with the Progress Party. Then I think it is a little bad that the representative, Andersen, is still going to make false claims as if the Progress Party were going to have a hidden agenda, a different agenda than everyone else. However, we clearly see that the large influx of asylum seekers to Norway this year, last year and the year before, has a clear link with the failure of integration policy. That is why I have said that we must take a break. We need to tighten up the immigration policy itself. And then I've said that the Progress Party likes to use some of the funds that are currently being used on asylum immigration for integration work. Then I would like to remind the representative Andersen that the Progress Party and SV have also met in the case of a proposal on kindergarten policy. I hope Andersen's representative is satisfied with that. Then I would like to remind the representative Andersen that in these times we are negotiating the distribution of the profits from Norsk Tipping, where the problem is actually SV. In fact, SV is the biggest problem in getting almost 800 million transferred. kr to voluntary teams and organisations, which can actually take the job that the representative Andersen is asking for. I hope that the representative Andersen is now trying to challenge me and the Progress Party will result in the representative Andersen having a dialogue with Øystein Djupedal, who is a negotiating partner on that very issue, and will ensure that we manage to share Norwegian Tipping's profits between Norwegian sports and voluntary teams and organisations – in particular Norwegian sport, which points out that there are no facilities and offers for young people in Oslo. That will be a good result. This is the proposal of the Progress Party, and we have been promoting this last year in May-June. If we are to ensure that this proposal is adopted, there will also be funds for the people and the support contacts requested by the representative, Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e426	At the beginning of today's setting, an overall committee clearly states that it addresses serious issues. I was going to start the line just by praising the Advance Party for it. Now I was a little surprised when the representative Sandberg started his main post by saying that the Progress Party is going ahead, while all the others are naive. I feel that there has been a serious and serious debate. Several themes have been addressed. Gender mutilation is a cruel crime against the children and young women who are subjected to this assault. That's why we're allowed to ban sexual mutilation. Parents are responsible. That is why we have Section 30 of the Children's Act which establishes the content of parental responsibility. But I find little care just for those who are subjected to the assault! The Progress Party is proposing and pointing out the responsibilities of parents, which we have already established. We're under ban against coercion, and that doesn't give us the right to family reunification. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is precisely promoting this proposal! I wonder what the purpose of the Progress Party is to promote proposals that open doors. Does the party have a hidden agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e440	Of course, we are pleased that the Committee sees that there are serious issues raised by the Progress Party. But yes, I just have to answer the representative of Østberg: I still feel that it is the Progress Party that has to go alone in creating debate and making concrete proposals that really make a decision. The representative of Østberg refers to a few individual proposals, but there are a number of other proposals here that he could most likely have joined in order to implement what is the intention of the proposals which he believes are opening up. The point is that we imagine the doors are open – but they are locked! It shows, among other things: This is sexual mutilation. Of course it is forbidden by Norwegian law. So this has been revealed in several contexts, but nothing has been done about it. And both the representative of Østberg and the undersigned know that there is still a great deal of coercion. It's against the law. It should not give entitlement to family reunification — but it is still happening. And then we have to find some new grips. We need to bring in some new measures to stop this. No matter how tight the law we have, it doesn't seem to be useful. And as far as care is concerned: I, the undersigned, sat in the Children's and Family Committee in the previous period and then made concrete proposals in relation to the Children's Act that such things, for example: The parents' responsibility here would mean the same as care failure. There were none of the other parties that joined it at the time, but I see that in the setting it is now actually pointed out that this is simply a care failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e451	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e454	For SV, the objective is a liberal, diverse, tolerant and multicultural society. Then is the first commandment that women and children should have the same right, whether they belong to a majority or a minority. I want to make Saynad Mohamuds – a young Somali woman – words to ours. She says, according to the VG on February 26th, ‘We want a multicultural society that brings with it the best of our traditions, which discusses the bad aspects, and which not least downgrades traditions that involve gross torture and terror against women and children. We are not supposed to understand this and not accept it." She also says that they should stop those who practice this. That's an attitude we share. In the fight against racism and discrimination, there should be no doubt that SV is on the side of the oppressed. In the fight against sexual mutilation, coercion and oppression, there should also be no doubt that SV is on the side of girls and women. Human rights are inviolable and should not be negotiated. You should be able to make your own choices in fundamentally important areas: marry whoever you want, control your body, decide whether you want education and work – regardless of traditional power structures. It is our duty as politicians to make sure that this is possible. This will take time, but we shouldn't be patient for a single second. Having respect for others is giving them the same opportunity that we have, and not closing their eyes to gross injustice and violence, whether it's motivated by tradition, culture, honor, or whether it's filled with guilt. In Norway, we have the tradition that the welfare state intervenes in what is perceived as private life in many other countries. And that's part of the conflict around this. But we know that if children and women are not to be the property of the family, if they are to have a self-esteem and a right of their own, we have to do this. We have child protection, we have training obligations, we have equality laws and bans on violence within the family. That is what must happen if it is to become a reality. What has led SV to react strongly now is that we see women being subjected to double discrimination, and that integration policy in general has major shortcomings. So that's why we have to raise this to the light, to talk about it openly and honestly. We must take guilt and shame away from those who are oppressed and forced, even from those who dare to say so. This is the way it has been in the fight against female violence and incest in Norway, and this is the only way we can achieve it. There's explosive power in the women's liberation, especially in sexual women's liberation. But sexuality is our own – our responsibility and our own choices. Kadra said this in an appeal to us: we do not ask for more help from you than help not to be cut up and destroyed for life. – Those are strong words, but worth noting. We have to be able to pursue a comprehensive policy along two lines, that is, a better integration policy where we succeed in including people and giving everyone a real opportunity. It means housing, it means work, it means a better school, it means better balanced environments — and away with discrimination. And then we have to pursue a policy where we intervene urgently and prevent what we now have to stop. And then is the first commandment: Those who seek help must be believed! Other bids are that they have to get emergency help, an auxiliaries have to be able to help out on their own premises. There must be foster homes with close follow-up. These young people experience network loss. They come from very close families, they need close follow-up in foster homes because they have to have something more than a home or a living room without a network. The health care, school and auxiliary equipment that sees the warning lights flash must react when it happens. In fact, it is a great disappointment to SV that the majority does not agree to commit to funding all these measures, because that is the important thing. This must not now be behind everything else again; we need to get these things funded, both the introduction programmes and all the crisis measures. That can't be what we age away when we're now saying that this is important. Then it is important for SV that we try to reform the Child Protection Act so that decisions can be made for young people between the ages of 18 and 23 who want to do so. What we need to know is that some young people who are now forced to break up with their family are losing everything. They need close adult contact, new family, someone who has more than professional duty to stand up for them. Therefore, we believe that the measures of child protection must be used. So we know that economic seaworthiness is the key to being able to act freely and break out if you have to. That is why we believe that the obligation to provide care is important. We saw that when it was relaxed, women and girls disappeared from training because there was no need for them to have a job and take care of sails or others. Not all women who come to Norway for family reunification are given the opportunity to learn Norwegian or learn about their rights. And then they have no opportunity to make their own choices, follow up their children at school or break out if they are subjected to violence. Some men feel threatened that the spouse can get on his own, then they lose control. Language is, as you know, power. Preventing information is an important governing technique. Therefore, the introduction programme and the benefit must also apply to those who come for family reunification by marriage. It has to be an economic carrot and an obligation, so that everyone has the opportunity to get the key into society and into the permanent residence permit. This can also be achieved if you acquire similar knowledge in a different way. Then there are many youths who experience family pressure and parents getting married, some with a sibling. The pressure and commitment in relation to such events are strongest in the immediate family. There is a moving transition between forced marriage and arranged marriage. But the human rights say that marriage should only be made free and subject to the full consent of the prospective spouses. We've looked at what we can do to ease the pressure. You can, for example: assess a higher age limit for family reunification. You have a better chance of making maritime choices and resisting pressure when you're 23 than when you're 18. But such a proposal has many negative sides as well. So SV won't go into it now, but we want to get it figured out, so we can wait to conclude that this has most negative or most positive sides. The same is true of the prohibition of marriage between siblings. We haven't concluded this, but we know that there are whole families being pressed here, and the families also need a better excuse to be able to say, no, it's not allowed in Norway to marry a sibling, so we can't be on this regardless of the pressure from the rest of the family. But at the same time, we see that this can be a violent intervention in people's free choice. We do not want to conclude, but we want this to be investigated. We think it's wrong to close that book before we've seen all the consequences. Children have the right to education. Suddenly, children can get away from school without anything happening. Therefore, SV has looked at how we can best ensure that children receive the training they are going to have. And we've asked the government to now look at financial penalties against parents who take their children out of school without making sure they get the training they're going to have. So it's directly related to the child's right under the training law. SV has also called for an international unit for the protection of children. We know that child protection today is municipal, and that technically this is not quite simple. We think it's necessary. The Committee also points out that many children abroad are asking for help, but we do not know how to help them. Some of them are Norwegian, and they're completely helpless. In fact, this is also sometimes about Norwegian children who are almost left to sea because Norwegian parents are filling the South. It's tragic, but true. Then I would like to stress that the SV's agenda in this case is not that fewer should have family reunification. It's not our agenda at all. We believe that people are going to have family reunification, but we want to prevent coercion and violence, and we want to ensure that all the keys to Norwegian society are shared out to everyone who gets to come. And we want to make it easier for those who want to break old traditions, to get an opportunity to do that. Finally, I would like to ask the others to look at the proposal to impose a dependant obligation on those who have gone before three years, different from the uninvited spouse who has come for family reunification. We know that there are a lot of women here who really suffer. Just contact the crisis centers and the flax, they're full of these women. We believe that such an economic obligation would prevent any of this and at least give these women an opportunity to cope. I want to mention suggestions that SV has in the setting, both alone and together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e504	Karin Andersen has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e509	Like SV, the Christian People's Party and the Right want a liberal, tolerant and diverse society. I want to express my appreciation for a constructive cooperation on the setting. I would like to stress that there is a great convergence of views. There are still two points where I'm jumping over SV. It seems that SV is willing to assess an age limit for family reunification by marriage. Doesn't it pose a problem that those who are authoritative can't marry anyone they want? For a long time, Norwegian municipalities have not been particularly enthusiastic about receiving refugees. A mandatory introduction programme will impose new tasks on municipalities. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party want an introduction program, but we want Norwegian municipalities to receive as many refugees as possible on a voluntary basis. Does SV mean that these points can easily be reconciled? Or does it not see the problem that Norwegian municipalities themselves must have a desire to receive more refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e519	It is correct that there has been a broad consensus on the important issues in this setting. What SV is concerned about is helping to ease the pressure on some of the young people we know are being pushed into marriage they do not want to enter into. We all see contradictions both with the proposal for a higher age limit for family reunification and with a ban on cousins and marriages. I have explained that. But the point is that we also know that this is probably some of the measures that will work best. We have not concluded that we want to implement this, but we want to ask the government to consider these proposals, and then to conclude afterwards when we see whether the costs here are higher than what we think is right. There are a lot of people who have been up in this problem, who have said to us, please, give us a little more time. Let's grow up a little bit more. Let's let go of this pressure, which is so strong when family ties are strong. So to the last, volunteering for the municipalities. No, if this doesn't become a right for everyone, we all know who's going into the kitchen and not being allowed to learn Norwegian, who's not getting access to knowledge of their own rights, who's not getting a job training, so they can get out of work. It's the women, it's part of the women who come here for family reunion, in more or less arranged marriage. This is experience – unfortunately it is. We can't solve this without it being both a right for everyone and an obligation for society to set up. Then we all reach, and then we reach those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e530	For my part, I think it was an interesting post from the representative Karin Andersen. It is true that every year SV has been at the forefront of bringing down the asylum, refugee and immigration policies of the Progress Party, and they themselves have been relatively clear about the current policy in this area. But now the party finally seems to have taken the realities of this area a little bit more inward. As Karin Andersen said, we dare now talk about this openly and honestly. I hope now that we can expect an SV who will be more concerned with a realistic policy and debate and dialogue in this area than with continuing to use their energy, which they have often – too often – done in the past, to cut out and push down on the proposals of the Progress Party. Karin Andersen also said that when it comes to sexual mutilation and family violence, SV is on the girls' side. Yes, of course, so does the Advance Party. Then one might ask: why is it so difficult for SV to vote for perhaps a few of the good proposals of the Progress Party? For example, proposal No. 13: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for parental responsibility for the implementation and the exposure of gender.’ This just has to be on the girls' side. We also have proposal No. 15: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to increase the penalties for violence and threats against its own family members.’ There must be a lot of what the representative, Karin Andersen, mentioned in his statement. Then you can ask: Why is it so difficult to support just such proposals, which SV – as far as I understand – actually agrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e551	SV fundamentally disagrees with the Progress Party in refugee and asylum policy. But the problem may be that we're not so interested in discussing the Progress Party all the time. We are more interested in discussing the measures that we believe work, and those that we believe are good. That's why there's some of what the Progress Party is now promoting, which we disagree with, because we don't think it works, we think it's wrong. As regards increased penalties for violence, we know that the penalties we have are not used – they are not used in these cases, nor are they used in violence against Norwegian women and Norwegian families. It's a big problem. It doesn't help to raise the penalties if you don't manage to use the ones that are. In terms of sexual mutilation, the law is very strict as it is. The problem is that in all relevant cases where this law could have been used, child protection has assessed that it is best for the child not to use the law and to take other measures instead. It's a great paradox for all of us that we actually have a law to protect against something as cruel and fatal as sex mutilation is, but in the acute situation, those who have the pediatric evaluation of this do an assessment that says that it's still best for the child that the parents are not punished. It's a very difficult paradox. That's why it's not like just putting this sentence up to 20 years now, it'll work. That's the baby's best we have to keep in mind here. There's the terrible paradox that probably you have to create some examples that aren't for the child's benefit, in order for this to work, and you have a law that's not just a paper rule. There are some dilemmas and some choices in these difficult issues that the Progress Party has never wanted to be involved in and discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e562	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e565	The issues in this setting are serious. They have to do with the freedom, integrity and human dignity of young people. I think Norway needs to get tougher. We have to set some limits to the freedom of choice. Human rights, democracy and universal values have clearly defined limits to which choices and actions can be accepted. Such limits are necessary to ensure real freedom. Without language and social skills, a person living in Norway does not have a real choice in terms of participation in working life, politics, organisational life and everyday life. The choices are then minimal, and one is to a large extent the prizewinner's closest. Freedom is to have real and decisive influence on their own life. I am therefore pleased that the Committee clarifies that training in Norwegian and social literacy should be a requirement before foreign citizens are granted permanent residence permits in Norway. Before I take a review of what it is actually political will to carry out, I have a little heartache. The minority population in Norway is many. Very many people are all integrated and part of the Norwegian community. Not all people with a minority background need to be integrated. Not everyone needs a specific and social security network. The Christian People's Party understands the frustration of minority groups who are not subject to cork choice, coercion, or abuse, when they are nevertheless stigmatised because of ethnicity. And that minority youth also usually has wise, wise, and loving parents, we know. Efforts to combat racism, discrimination and fear of the future are, if possible, even more important than before. But our knowledge of diversity must not prevent us from doing everything for those who are the victims of cultural or religious insanity. Let's admit that the job of integration is not done. But we've seen a lot of things going on, and in this setting, there are several points of view and action. For example, all Governments support their goal of taking the youth side in the cultural or generational conflict in the immigrant environment. And Norway has to work internationally, it's all about, to fight against coercion. We have to work on gender mutilation, as this is not primarily a Norwegian problem. The Committee also believes that it is important to focus attention on the priority of health and school services for outreach work in outreach groups and that health professionals have adequate knowledge of this area. In addition, the Committee states that where a ‘qualified suspicion of sexual mutilation will be committed’, the necessary measures must be put in place to prevent abuse. The Committee also asks the Government to assess the need for any legislative or regulatory changes in order to clarify the alert requirement. However, this is a difficult area, for alerting obligations must be balanced against children and young people in need of assistance and assistance in a crisis situation. The majority ask the Government to consider the dual citizenship scheme in its proposal for a new citizenship law. And the plural supports the Government's intention to streamline the claim of persuasion in connection with the family reunion. This is to prevent young immigrant girls from completing their studies or continuing their work. The majority also believe that it is necessary to tighten the exemption to get family reunification when the spouses are under 18 years of age. But raising the age to 24 years will undoubtedly be experienced as strange for authorized people who want to marry. That is why the Christian People's Party does not support that proposal. One important issue for the majority is to give child protection authority to follow up young people until they are 23 years old, when decisions are taken before the age of 18. This is important in order to provide young people with protection and assistance in critical youth years, when the broken family is absolute and it is necessary to protect life and health. It's tragic that there's a need for this, but it's necessary. The Committee also asks the Government to take action to assist Norwegian children with a migrant background who, against their will, are left abroad. This happens every summer and cannot be ignored. The action plan against gender mutilation is close to that of the Government, and the Government has proposed 30 measures against coerciveness. The action plan contains emergency measures, measures to detect coerciveness, measures to enhance the skills of the auxiliaries and information and to create stamina. It has also been proposed to increase the penalties for cases of indebtedness and intimidation against own family members. In addition, the Storting points out today that the sanctions that exist are not used by the courts, and that this is unacceptable, because it helps to signal that such a choice is not serious. The government will also introduce a systematic use of interviews at Norwegian foreign stations for family reunification applications. If the marriage is made abroad, the young person in Norwegian soil, with Norwegian protection, may reveal the betrayal if it is coerced into the picture. Thus, youth is not entirely left to a foreign culture, a foreign country and the family’s supremacy. That's what the paramedics want to know. I think this can eliminate or at least reduce the problem of coercion. The majority also believe that a public body should be responsible for approving the marriage terms, but fortunately, only the SV will take away the right of marriage from churches and faith communities. The majority will warn against prohibiting the marriage of cousins and cousins. It's almost impossible to control, and in addition, it's going to be unfortunate compared to those who are actually married to a sibling today. As an apologies, I would say that several Norwegian famous people were just married to a sibling. It is a sign of illness, I think, that we in Norway have a far-reaching crisis-focused approach to the problem of integration. Because it is not to be expected that the starting point for this setting is media documentation of selected and coerced, of cropping and shameful honorary drops. This is a problem setting that something on the road was familiar with. But soon the camera lenses will turn another way. Then it is important that the Government ensures that the work for better integration is also prioritised in months where the media does not force us to act or hold. Integration means giving people a place in society. It implies rights and obligations. Unni Wikan says this: we must have a social contract that obliges everyone: authorities, immigrants, other citizens. I also believe it is important to create a common platform that is mandatory. And the Christian People's Party and the Government believe that we need a holistic policy, which gives immigrants the possibility of self-respect, which usually brings with them social respect. The alternative is marginalisation and stigmatisation. It is disrespectful not to make demands on fellow humans. Being stupid, which we often owe to being, is not good, it's just stupid. The mainstream society must never accept that human society in the immigrant environment is allowed to marginalise its women. Strong, brave, tough and well-oriented immigrant girls have taken up the fight, and they enjoy the protection and support of the big society, without letup. They are fortifying positive results and a secure future without power and coercion. The challenges are great. When the population is made up of people with different ethnic, national, cultural and religious backgrounds, a conscious policy is needed to ensure equal opportunities for participation in society, equal living conditions, security and protection against abuse, and that is the objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e601	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e604	As represented by Apelthun Seele, linguistic knowledge and knowledge of working and social life are the key to integration and inclusion. The debate over the last few days has shown that good integration is important. Integration is not the problem, but the lack of good integration. Therefore, the Labour Party has proposed the introduction of a mandatory introduction programme. Now it is the case that the Christian People's Party supports the Labour Party in substance, but they will not, strangely enough, support the proposal. Is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party will not participate in good and constructive integration? Is not the representative of Apelthun Sæle agree with his own Prime Minister who, in the spontaneous Question Time yesterday, stated that the Government is in favour of such an introduction program? It is strange to be in favour of a case and yet express that one is going to vote against. If the answer from the representative Sæle is equivalent to that given by the representative Holmberg from Right, I believe that it bears witness to the paralysis of action. This is not good enough. I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party's proposal is that the Government be asked to introduce a mandatory introduction programme as soon as possible – I stress as soon as possible. In other words, there is no hasty decision. I challenge the representative Apelthun Seele now to make sure that she can perhaps join this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e617	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Christian People's Party has always been in favour of good integration. When we haven't completely closed down with the integration into society that we've expressed before, and that many others have expressed before, it's a shared responsibility. It's not just this government's responsibility, it's all the former governments' responsibility – including the government that Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen has associated with. The representative Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen probably also knows that when one is in a government situation, with the government power and the ability one has to influence development, one is not always involved in entering open doors. We are quite clear, as Uppøen Hansen pointed out, in a plurality that says that immigrants and minorities need language and social skills to become better integrated. But we do not need to adopt everything we think by means of proposals. In addition, we need an approach to all the municipalities that now have problems receiving refugees. We need to have a dialogue with them, so that good training, both in social and Norwegian language, becomes a reality, and we want to introduce it in a way that is softer than the plurality here might want. We are facing major problems in integrating refugees and asylum seekers into the municipalities, and we are taking it seriously. That doesn't mean we're going to downgrade this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e626	The representative Apelthun Seele concluded the last line round by saying that we don't need to decide on everything we think. It may be some of the problems when the Christian People's Party joins a note on page 8 in the setting where it says that we do not support 'proposals now on tightening up who can get family reunification'. That is perhaps what is one of the problems of integration policy, that we constantly push the problems ahead of us without defining what we want and what we mean. Then evolution becomes as it is. What I thought I was going to challenge the representative Apelthun Säle was this with dependability or dependability and housing requirements. Here neither does the Christian People's Party want to be present. I hear that the representative suggests that it is enough to assess. But doesn't Apelthun See that if we just evaluate this with dependability, it'll be just as easy to send these girls out of the country and get them the coercion or anything abroad, and then take them back when they're 24? It's one of the basic problems. Does Apelthun not see the seal that the two areas must join together, the obligation of living and living and the age limit? So I would like an answer from the representative Apelthun Säle, as they also oppose mandatory health testing. What is the worst thing about these girls getting a health study or being subjected to an assault? What do we really want? Don't we want to stop this type of assault? It's my simple questions to Apelthun Seele. I can't find any argument that would suggest that you go against such a health study if it can stop that kind of terrible offense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e635	The difference between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party is that we have great confidence that the Government will implement the integration policy that we want, and that we will have a final continuation of this, so that integration is better. Now the Christian People's Party has always had a different approach than the Progress Party in what was the first question, namely family reunification. We want a human policy in this area, because we realize that people who come to this country, and who have been given residence permits here, must also have the right to be reunited with their family. It's an important part of human life, and we've always had a different approach to this. That's why we don't want to be tightened up in the family reunion. When it comes to maintenance and dependability, we want to introduce something like that, but we don't want to live with it. That's the difference in these proposals. We are also confident here that the Government will propose changes to the ‘foreign regulations on maintenance requirements in the case of a request for family reunification on the basis of marriage’, as stated in the Forced Marriage Action Plan, on page 20 of the vote. To adopt something that we've already said we want to do is not the way we work in relation to the Government. I ask the representative from the Progress Party to understand that, and with some government experience, I believe they would have that understanding. When it comes to mandatory health investigations, a number of them say that we need more health checks and that we need a stronger schooling service. Here's the question what's the way to the goal, because it's obvious that we don't want these assaults. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e644	SV is the principle of a policy that facilitates the independent ability of women to make their own choices for their lives. For women with a minority background who come to the country, three factors are crucial to this. It's language, it's knowledge of its own rights, and it's the possibility of a separate income and a network that gives openings rather than constraints. That is why I have two questions for the representative, Säle. One of these questions is Seal in itself being plagued with a few times from the pulpit before, but when her answer to the most important measure that we can adopt here, namely the mandatory introduction course for all, also for those who come here on family reunion, is that the Christian People's Party does not need to adopt everything they think, we have in fact received that answer earlier in relation to kindergarten prices and the development of kindergartens. So there's nothing new, but I think it's particularly sad in this area, because that's maybe the most important thing we can do for these women. I wonder if it is such that the party believes that there may be a difference between the needs of women who come here to the country for the first time, who have knowledge of language, rights, the ability to create a wide network and their own income, and therefore want to investigate this and not vote for it now. The second question concerns cash support. It has had a particular impact on the ability of minority women to have negative autonomy. Cash support has helped to cement a pattern of traditional gender-sharing, which is even more prominent in some minority groups than in most ethnic Norwegian environments. The main objective of gender equality policy, at least for the SV, has been to give women the same opportunities as men to earn the money themselves. How would Seele say that she and her party have contributed to this goal when cash support has led to an encouragement of the practice of being at home, delayed participation in Norwegian courses, limited women's networks, and centered a pattern where women do not have their own income? How do you put up with the possibility to make free choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e652	The Christian People's Party and the Government are very concerned about women's independent choices. Today's debate is about, and it will also be about the laws that come in June. We will then be able to decide on all of this on a qualified basis. When it comes to the introduction program, I've got an answer for it. So we want the introduction program, but we don't want to adopt it now. We have a total of 30 measures to combat coercive measures, and there will be many proposals for action to combat gender discrimination from the Government. We think they're worked through, and we think they're targeted. When it comes to cash support, like SV, we don't want to throw the child out with the bath water – maybe they didn't find the child at all. Women who want to be at home with their own children must have the same rights and have the same opportunities and fair support from the big society as those who have their children in kindergartens get. But honestly, taking from all Norwegian women who want to be home with their children, cash support because someone in the immigrant community uses this in a different way from what we had thought, I think I'm untimely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e661	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e664	The centre party will strengthen the efforts of a society where trugs, choice and sex mutilation are not only prohibited in the law but also unprovoked in practice. Document No 8:50 has allowed to listen to groups and individuals who have themselves been involved, either directly or on the advisory and treatment page. All the favors of the girls who are at risk have given society access to new insights. All praise also to the many who have their work at the crisis center. It is high time that these centres received stable and prudent funding. A number of organisations are currently working on prevention, cultural meeting places, self-help groups and primary medical activities. Based on the fact that government funding applications from different organisations are far more than space available from the Government's budget for the year, the Center Party proposes more funds. I found the debate today to stress the need not only for the Centre Party and the SV, but also for several others, to make proposals for a strengthening to ensure that more organisations are able to do the important work that many of them are doing. Health stations are important points of contact. We want to strengthen the work of health centres, both in relation to the first meeting with children and parents, through the elementary school and also in the secondary school. Health stations need to be followed up by means, providing opportunities to enhance their competence. Today, it is true that there are municipalities that do not follow up with health services in relation to the continuing schools. They are forced to prioritize it down because they have far from the means they are supposed to do. I wonder that there are no more people who will make the state even stronger in relation to a law that also takes care of the continuing schools. But, of course, funds must also be set aside. When it comes to the various professionals who are making a very valuable effort here, I am pleased that there is such a great deal of support for a review of the obligations and the obligation to provide warning and activity. The effort in this area is about holding work, it is about practicing and following up the law we have today, and it is about new measures. When an investigation shows that several men who are convicted of family authority are involved in so-called seriality, we fully support – and I am glad that there is a wide deal – that the UDI must be equipped with powers both to warn women who are considering marriage with them and to reject an application. But we are surprised that there are no more people who see the need to look at the 3-year rule in relation to maintenance obligations when a marriage passes before 3 years has passed and women are in danger of being sent out of the country, women who in no way have the possibility of a self-sustaining economy. So some words especially in relation to integration. Have we failed? At least we must step up our efforts towards single, minor asylum seekers. In this way, I refer to a proposal in case 7. In addition, we need to step up efforts towards the youth environment, women and the labour market. I want to challenge the Council of State to give a status when it involves involvement with government enterprises. There is also a need to take seriously the police's signal that we need to step up efforts, so that the police can do their work on the preventive side, and so that we can get quick reactions and changes in weapons law and law to reduce criminal acts and the use of force.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e686	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa concluded his post by asking: "Is integration a failure? If we go back one day or two, party leader Odd Roger Enoksen of the Central Party said that we have failed in integration policy. It is clear that the theme of the debate we are holding here is also part of the overall Norwegian integration policy, asylum, refugee and immigration policy. Furthermore, Odd Roger Enoksen, party leader of the Center Party, said that it has been ‘Frp against us others’. He said that, according to the newspaper yesterday. He also said that he would throw criminal foreigners out of the country and deprive them of citizenship. This is hard shooting from a party leader and a party that one must say has been in the first place to defend the same policy that he now admits has failed. Is it the case that the Centre Party has become a party to adopt restrictive immigration, asylum and emigration policies? Deles Enoksen's views of the committee leader, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e695	The Centre wants a multicultural society based on respect and tolerance towards individuals and different groups. We will work to ensure that all those who stop in Norway will have the possibility of a full life of equal security, the same security for education, for job opportunities, for social rights and participation in society as everyone else. But we also want to demand that those who come to the country actively participate in their integration through training in Norwegian and social knowledge and active participation in working and social life. I share Odd Roger Enoksen's concern for the everyday life that we are now seeing. I guess the Progress Party has also come to realize that when it comes to the issue of depriving people of citizenship, Odd Roger Enoksen himself has made it clear that his reaction was a spontaneous and popular reaction that results from an outrageous act in Moss, but that the Center Party, and then, in fact, in contrast to the Progress Party, is committed to the obligations we have under international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e702	Spontaneous debates due to horrendous acts may be difficult, as shown in the previous row. Therefore, I am pleased that the Central Party, together with the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, states that the age of authority in Norway is 18 years, that it is, in fact, for legitimate persons to be free to marry whomever you want, and that the right to family life is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights – that Article 8 which guarantees the right to live together. I am pleased that the Central Party is in favour of saying that raising the age limit for reunification should not be implemented, that raising could just affect minorities, and that it would be contrary to the non-discrimination principle. I think it's important to base principles and not individual pistes, however monstrous they may be. That's why it surprises me when the central party in the setting, together with the Socialist Left Party, still finds it opportunistic to state that it will undoubtedly be ‘enlighten claim of own opinions and interests in relation to marriage for a person aged 24 years and over 18. Setting an age limit for family reunification could facilitate early marriage pressures, and be a relief both for young people and for families’. I'm going to a wedding this summer to a woman under the age of 24. I am reasonably sure that she would have asked herself such a rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e714	I will give Mr Østberg the right to say that when one is authoritative, one should also expect one to make his judgements in line with his age – without me going into the invitations to the wedding that I and Ivar Østberg had to receive. I did not think that this question was simply out of date – whether one should have the age limit of the day, 18 years, or whether or not a higher age limit should be considered. I actually thought it was a moment when one could ease the poison pressure at an early age. It could be a relief for some youths and for some families where there is pressure from a relative. But there are still so many unclear points relating to the same proposal that the Center Party and I have chosen not to go into any detail. So in relation to this comment, I'm not as sure as Ivar Østberg at this point. Then I must say that when the Christian People's Party now wants to contribute to a strengthening in relation to young people who are in difficult situations when they are in debt, I wonder that they cannot be on proposal No. 10, which will strengthen the effort in relation to foster homes and human resources in different fields, yes, neither does the means for a contact telephone can the Christian People's Party participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e723	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e726	This issue concerns criminal acts and the prevention of criminal acts. This work has been taken very seriously by the Left, and so is the Government, and we are doing a good job. It is not just the Progress Party that is and has been committed to fighting crime, nor that which can be linked to special groups and cultural traditions. The special feature of the Progress Party is that they operate in a general atmosphere of suspicion and reluctance towards people from other countries, and that the level of precision in the debate is not always the same. When, for example, the Advance Party: so strongly embraces the controversial and very imprecise opinions of police officers, I assume that this is because these political ones can be taken into account for the party, not because they believe that officials should generally interfere in the debate in a way that is not professional, but to the most extent political. Lack of precision, e.g. by not distinguishing clearly between asylum and refugee policies, integration policies, immigration policies, crime and cultural differences, etc., are very unfortunate and create a great waste of opinions, attitudes and assertions. We often get a climate of suspicion, intolerance and generalization, to which unfortunately the Progress Party has contributed solidly. If this has led to the party not feeling that their proposals have been accepted with sufficient seriousness, it is to a large extent the party's own fault. To a large extent, it may also have a shadow of the greater consensus on more things than you would seem to think. It's been many years since the Left was naive in such questions – whether we've ever been. Odd Einar Dørum is the Minister of Justice, and so was he in the Central Government. In front of someone, he has gone ahead and taken care of many of the matters that are affected by today's proposal. He has done so on the platform on which the Left is based – the freedom and desire of individuals for well-being, a tolerant, liberal and multicultural society based on liberal values, anti-racism, anti-discrimination and anti-generalisation, a hard fight against those who violate the freedom and well-being of others through abuse and other criminal acts. I expect the Solberg Council to clarify the measures the Government is working on in this area. The left actively participates in the formulation of this policy, and I would say that these matters are taken more seriously than ever. Individual events can lead to involvement and serious societal problems. But it can also lead to a kind of moral panic, where rapid spinal cord reflexes take over for a more thoughtful reaction and well-considered suggestion. In the Storting, the level of precision in arguments and proposals must be higher than in the general media debate. It is therefore positive that some of the proposals made in the media are not maintained here in the Chamber. I show you, among other things: to the Workers' Party's play on the prohibition of marriage between siblings and on compulsory health control. Here in Stortinget, there is a greater requirement for the level of precision in both what to talk about and what to do. That is why it is positive that the many proposals of the Progress Party fall. Many of them are well-intentioned, but in sum they bring an attitude that does not promote integration and anti-discrimination. The left can subscribe to all the majority comments in this position and to most of what has been said in the debate by both our government colleagues and representatives from the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party. In our view, the Government has a balanced and good policy in this field. We will therefore not vote in favour of any of the minority proposals that have been put forward, but we will join in the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e747	Until now, the debate has actually been held at a substantive level – until the representative from the Left takes up the floor. She reverses the debate back to the time when all the parties spent all their speaking time and all their lines of action on criticising the Progress Party, accusing the Progress Party of having a different agenda, a different view of humanity, and standing for some positions that we are taking away from. I think that's a shame. Well-considered proposals are what the Progress Party has. It's not like this is something we found on a Saturday night. We have promoted these proposals many years ago, and they have been thoroughly developed. In addition, the proposals are this time quality assured by the people who work closely to the problems and who actually join the proposals. The girls that the representative from the left is now trying to give the impression of helping want these measures. I want to accuse the Left's representative of totally ignoring the actions these girls have been subjected to. The representative from the Left suspects the girls who have stood up. The representative from the Left does not take these girls seriously, and that is regrettable. That's the level of precision of the representative from the left there's something wrong with it, and I think it's regrettable. The left has the Minister of Justice, and that's the only positive. That's why I want to challenge the representative, because it's not long since the Minister of Justice went out in the newspapers and said, "I don't tolerate people coming to this country and wrestling with our women." – I fully agree, and if this is the starting point, I would like to cooperate with the Left as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e756	I am, of course, sorry if Mr Sandberg's representative did not think I was factual enough for his level of debate. If the representative Sandberg wants information about this, I can tell you that I have also worked with a lot of such girls. I've met all the girls who've stood up and told their stories. That is the basis for the more than 30 enforcement measures put forward by the Government. But it takes a certain amount of precision when you do things. Age limits that are raised very high, like you, for example. In Denmark, a different view is taken of non-nationals who are going to marry than of Norwegians who are getting married. I do not believe that you can ever guarantee that there is no forced marriage even where both citizens are Norwegian. You have to have a precision here to make sure that you don't bring everyone in the drawable. I've known that mind that many of these girls here have felt. And I think the rights of these women are our women's fight. I feel obliged as a liberal lady to follow up just these things. But we have to have a precision on this, we have to have a certainty that the measures we're going to take actually reach. I do not doubt the commitment of the Sandberg representative in this area, but this commitment also has others, even if you choose other instruments. I think it's very important to see that if we can't have this level of precision, we can end up in a division where there are other things behind the policy than fighting for these girls. I think our commitment is quite similar, but I don't believe that the Progress Party is so dedicated to doing this exactly, when it's not about citizenship or where you come from. I know that the commitment to the Minister of Justice is enormous in this area. We've had a lot of meetings on this, and we have a lot of commitment in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e765	SV agrees with the Government that the measures to be taken should not discriminate between being Norwegian or foreign. We have asked the Government to set up a working group to investigate the issue of the introduction of the age limit for family reunification. It's argued from the government parties now that it will seem very discriminatory and will deprive authoritative persons of an opportunity. However, the government's own programme of action presented states that, in the case of dependability, consideration should be given, in particular, to the need to be able to impose more stringent maintenance requirements than the current legislation on family reunification for spouses under the age of 23. In practice, this will seem exactly the same; it will not distinguish between Nordics and non-residents. But it's clear that those who live here with foreign origin are much more in need of family reunification and use family reunification more often than we do, so that's how it's going to happen. However, if the Government's proposal is examined and accepted, it will affect the same groups in relation to the measures asked by SV – not to implement – to be investigated, because we see that it can be a similar instrument. That's why I have a lot of problems finding the principleal counter-representation towards one when you go for the other, because in practice it'll work exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e770	In the case of family reunification, an age limit will in a way affect everyone, and it will also be a very large instrument that will affect many innocent people, who do not have to be affected by it. We've been talking about dependability. Before that, the obligation to provide care was linked to the person who wanted to bring the spouse into the country. Then it was changed so that parents could have responsibility for the care. I believe that gives a completely wrong responsibility between parents and children. If you want to get a spouse into the country, it becomes a completely wrong responsibility if your father is the one who ensures that you have financial room for action. I think there are a lot of girls who need the economic freedom it is – and who also need that responsibility – by actually being able to say to their spouse who comes to the country, that it is because I can support you that you come here. That's what we think is a more precise tool than the general age limit. We've been skeptical about this because there's a lot more to it than what you do if you tighten up the requirements of living, which are much more precise in relation to the target group, and which is also more precise in relation to what we want precisely these girls to have the takeover – to say it like that – in such a relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e777	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e780	This made a strong impression when a number of key immigration politicians appeared in the Newspaper on 21 November 2001 and said that poor integration is the fault of politicians. Politicians have shown great goodwill, but little interest, says Saera Khan. Therefore, it is important to ensure better integration, primarily by offering employment and by offering housing. At the same time, however, language and knowledge of working and social life are also a key to integration and inclusion. There is also a background to the Workers' Party's view that a compulsory introduction programme for refugees must be introduced, for those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, and for those who are allowed to stay on a family reunion, and that there should be a programme providing basic skills in Norwegian and knowledge of Norwegian social life, in preparation for participation in professional life. It surprises me that what is now a majority in the Chamber did not endorse it during the Committee's proceedings. I record with the signals given by the Progress Party during the debate that there will be a majority for such a programme in all municipalities, compulsory for all those covered by it. It is also the case that, after the treatment and the contact we have had with various immigration politicians, we are also following up one of the initiatives that have actually come from central immigration politicians, that knowledge in Norwegian and Norwegian society must be demanded in the future before foreign citizens are granted permanent residence permits in Norway. There is also an important change, and it is also on the initiative of the immigrant community itself. At the same time, we must be careful to take measures that change what is preventing integration. We have pointed out from the Labour Party that there should be no payment of child benefit or cash support for children moving out of the EEA territory, for example. to go to school in the home country of their parents, or to move abroad while eligible for cash support, to the extent that they leave Norway to prevent some form of integration into the Norwegian community. There are measures that we should provide to ensure that children can participate in training in Norwegian kindergartens and in the Norwegian school system. In order to achieve the goal of a successful multicultural society, it is important that those with central roles, and not least religious leaders in the religious communities, have elementary knowledge of Norwegian society and qualified basic knowledge. There is also a background for us to believe that it is important to make regulatory changes that allow religious leaders to make demands on such knowledge as a condition for the communities to receive State aid. One of the most important things to ensure integration is schoolwork. It creates large dividing lines if you have different school services depending on culture, depending on religion, just as it creates dividing lines if you have different school services depending on the level of knowledge or social background. It is therefore important to watch over the Norwegian single school. I therefore think it is a paradox, it is a cross of thought, that while we in this Chamber are discussing the issue of better integration, the Government is facilitating a weakened integration through an increased investment in private schools. It's obviously wrong to go. Better integration is also one of the main measures to prevent abuses, abuses such as forced marriages or sexual mutilation. At the same time, we need to organise direct offers, direct actions, such as strengthening the school health service and helping to prevent sexual mutilation, and to strengthen an interview institution in the context of marriage in order to detect coerciveness. But we also need to remove important driving forces. The Labour Party has therefore for its part agreed that we should review and tighten the right of foreign nationals to reunite with their relatives who have resided in Norway as a result of marriages. The desire to bring family to Norway shall not be a driving force leading to forced marriage. That is the background to the view that such a review is necessary for the Workers' Party. The discussion we have today is important. There is a discussion that has taken place in close dialogue with the various immigrant communities. I believe that through this discussion we have also taken a major step forward in Norwegian integration policy. It is my hope that the Stortinget can join in the proposals made by the Workers' Party in today's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e797	Occasionally, the debate may feel the need to stress when discussing foreign legislation and the law, that it should be a framework not only to prevent things from happening under compulsion, but also the framework that there is a great deal of love moving across borders. There are a lot of people who meet a foreigner and want to marry him, so we're going to think that the law applies to us all. We have had a debate for months now that has been very focused on just one piece of it, but the legislation will apply to all of us. At the same time, I think it is very important that we have focused on the work against coercion. I believe that Norway has a better chance of dealing with these issues because we have an open and open debate, because we have actually done something for three to four years. We have had a three-year action plan that has given us experience, given us knowledge and perhaps told us something about where to go. Where the way goes, we've discussed earlier in interpellation debates here, among other things. to gain much greater knowledge and competence in the ordinary Norwegian public utility than we have today on cultural differences, in the background of those living in Norway, in order to meet the people with problems with the right measures. The evaluation of the action plan against coercion shows, inter alia: – and it was particularly about the support to voluntary organisations – that it was done a lot well, but there was also a need for much greater professional weight associated with that work. Among other things, we see that one of the reactions when the conflicts become big for women and girls is that they are, for example, stop eating and get major eating disorders. If we don't have the skills associated with it into the system, it doesn't help the girls well enough. This is why we have this in focus throughout the public utility. The 30-point action plan from the Government has taken this step inwards. We need an auxiliaries that not only apply to a few individual measures, but we need to keep these problems in focus in public, and knowledge, because it's part of that we've become a multicultural society. So it's important to think about why coercion arises. Forced marriages may arise for economic reasons, namely that it is very beneficial to have a son or a daughter moved to a Western country for employment. We're not going to hide that. However, forced marriage and arranged marriage and the problems associated with it are also a cultural tradition in many of the nations that live in Norway. And then it helps not only with laws and regulations against cultural traditions, but above all that people internalize new attitudes and understand Norwegian society. That is why it is very important that, alongside having laws and rules in focus – and the changes that we have here, where I see in and of course that there are shades of the difference in how much to go out, when the municipal committee agrees to use a stronger tightening on a number of points – there is also a strong focus on the attitude-creating work, on the direct systematic contact and dialogue with the immigrant communities, in order to make clear the premise of what it means to live in Norway and to take account of young people. And living in Norway means not just moving geographically, you also move mentally. It's part of the process of moving people, and that's what we're going to do to immigrants. Otherwise they're going to destroy their own families, and they're going to make big conflicts in Norwegian society by it. So to the specific issues that have been raised in the debate. I want to underline one thing: there is no disagreement about the need to have good introduction programs. What is the question here is whether it should be mandatory and in what way it should be mandatory. So in two governments, and finally in the third, it's been working to get a frame around these introduction programs, which was, in other words, a broad consensus in the Storting three years ago that we were going to try. The law notified to Stortinget will come in June. The Storting Municipal Committee will have the full opportunity to go through all the aspects of the questioning. Who is to have this offer? How is it to be implemented? What are the requirements? We can confirm that there will be a matter very quickly. It is currently being finalised in the legislative area of the department. That's why it's a little bit of an open door to say it, but there are some differences in this proposal, namely whether it should be mandatory or voluntary. When the Government has initially said that we believe that we must start with the application of this law as a voluntary measure, it is because this year we are going to settle 8,800 refugees and people who have been given humanitarian residence. Next year, we're going to live about as many people as the numbers look. However, it is still voluntary for municipalities in Norway to accept refugees. And that means that if we make a new major reform that the municipalities are not prepared to accept and implement now – you have to implement it for everyone – I think the answer is that fewer municipalities are accepting refugees. Then the integration of many refugees becomes worse, because they are not even settled. And you might get a very good offer for 4,500 people, but that means that there are 4,500 people left on reception, which has not been placed. That's the cost side of it, and that's why I'm a little reluctant to say that we're going to implement things mandatory overnight, because we haven't introduced forced deployment of refugees to the municipalities of Norway. In fact, in the debate here a year ago, there was a great deal of agreement that this should continue to be done in voluntary cooperation. And because I'm not only Minister of Integration and Foreign Affairs, but also the Minister of Municipal Affairs, I feel quite clearly what the mood is like out in Municipality-Norway now. They are not asking for coercive new reforms, so to speak. We know that there are some municipalities that have come very far, that do a lot here, but there are other municipalities that have not started, and that are going to say that this requires too much of us now. Therefore, I believe that although the intention is that everyone should do it – and since all political parties are behind it, all local governments around Norway will work on the objective that we use the law and decide that it should be so – then a new decision from the Stortinget towards Norwegian municipalities in this area will create counter-reactions. For Kommune-Norge is constantly not well enough prepared to accept that reform now. But we have to work on making them prepared to use it. That's what the government is going to do. So the question of housing. We have chosen not to go on restraints with a new requirement to have a dwelling. One of the important things I have learned during conversations with many of those who work with the integration of refugees is that if we are to create good attitudes to Norwegian laws, Norwegian laws must be followed. We have previously had a claim for housing in Norway by family reunification. The housing requirement led to a lot of black addresses and a lot of economic transactions at the time it was in force. Then it was removed. And I have to admit that I don't see that it's good resource use to have some kind of supervision that runs after and check whether these addresses are correct or not, whether you actually live at home with your parents or not. There I think you have to have so much realism that you realize that setting that requirement is not the right resource use. And it is a bad attitude-creating business to make demands on non-residents who come to Norway, whom we as Norwegian authorities have not intended to follow up. Because that gives an opinion that Norwegian laws don't mean that much, we can trick ourselves away. That's a completely wrong angle of incidence, because many come from cultures with just that kind of legal tradition, which we, for example, are. sees in relation to forced marriage. Forced marriage is prohibited in almost all countries in the world, but it is not followed up by the authorities. So you can give the bluff to the laws. Maybe we should learn that the promises we have should be follow-up. That's why we don't want to set such a housing requirement, because it's too difficult to control, and we can create a new black market. We're busy doing more to combat sexual mutilation. The 30 measures approved by the Government are measures relating to forced marriage. But we're working on a strengthening and deepening of the action plan against gender mutilation and are here in the final phase of a work that's going to be more intense, where we might discover that a whole series of the things that are addressed in different proposals will be covered in some way. Let me say one thing in general about part of the proposals, many of them from the Labour Party, among others, that there are marginal differences between them and what is already in the action plan. Sometimes one should discuss what such suggestions mean. But if you vote against in this room, that doesn't mean you don't agree to do anything. And to, for example, the proposal for a emergency telephone: we have a emergency telephone. It is funded by the Action Plan against Forced Marriage, Red Cross, ORKIS. That's what we're going to do. However, it is not a new measure, and it is therefore not within the framework of the renewal of the action plan against forced marriage. We're going to do something to reinforce this with foster homes, find arrangements there. There is a follow-up point in the plan that goes on the housing offer of those who come here, where my intention is that we have to create a network of social services in cities, which can also help people over 18 years of age. A network within the field of child protection is easy to establish. But through social services, we can create a network between municipalities, as we do in cooperation with the police, so that when crisis situations arise, there are some resources to go on. The government's 30 action points involve the need for money, and we need to find room for that in the future. But many of those proposals mean that we turn our attention, that we make sure that in all the training and training we have, we get the multicultural dimension and the new problems created by it, into the work we do. There is a lot of resources used in our society that could have been better used.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e839	I noticed that the Council of State said that in Stortinget an open door is being opened. But at the same time, the Council of State says that the Government will facilitate the voluntary use of the introduction programme, while the majority of the Stortinget today says that it should be a mandatory introduction programme. The Labour Party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, and also with the support of the Progress Party, says that it is so important that those who come to Norway learn Norwegian, that it is so important that they get more knowledge of Norwegian society, and it is so successful that we cannot continue with a situation where women, for example. not attend Norwegian education, but stay at home and do not get knowledge of Norwegian society, and cannot help their daughters gain more knowledge of Norwegian society, so that we need to implement this as a mandatory scheme. It's not opening an open door. It's opening a door that the council too very many will still keep closed. That is why I am pleased that there is a majority today that not only all municipalities should be obliged to make such an offer, but that all those who come as refugees and receive residence on a humanitarian basis are going to implement such a programme, and that in order to obtain permanent residence permits, they must have undergone a fundamental introduction into Norwegian language and society. One of the most important qualities in Norwegian society is that everyone goes to the same school. It prevents social dividing lines. Now the government opens up for more private schools. This can lead to one school for good, one for less good, one for rich and one for poor, but also to one for Muslims, one for Hindus, one for Buddhists, one for Pentecostals and one for Adventists. This creates dividing lines in Norwegian society — dividing lines between immigrants and the Nordics as well. Does the Council of State recognise that the Government's approach to the privatisation of schools is also a policy against the integration of immigrants and creates wider lines of distinction between immigrants and other residents in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e848	When I say you open a door, it's actually that you get a case. That case has been notified, it has announced an entire bill on the framework of this action coming in June. That proposal shall determine whether the introduction programme should be voluntary or compulsory. But the Stortinget gets one thing – which is actually what you're asking for – and the Stortinget has known for a long time that they're going to get it. Of course, in this process you will be able to decide on the various material things. But when I hear the post from Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, I wonder if he mixes two things. So last year the Stortinget decided that we should introduce compulsory Norwegian training for all those who come to Norway. That's true of everyone. That training shall include Norwegian and social knowledge. The Government also agrees. That review may include a question of a residence permit. There the government has also said that we now have an investigation, and we come up with a proposal for compulsory Norwegian training. I would remind you that the background for this is that the Right Party and the Advance Party have been for this long time. Right-leader, Jan Petersen, got a lot of pepper from all the liberal forces in Norway a few years ago, when he just took up the proposal that Aslam Ahsan later raised, to attach this to the residence permit. It was unheard of at the time he took up that debate. I'm glad this has changed, and that you've come there. It's an offer for everyone who comes to Norway. So the question is, what should the introduction course be? The introduction course, which has been tested under two governments in the past, is a course intended for refugees who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis – the group of people each municipality receives NOK 376,000 in integration grants to provide an offer to – combining Norwegian, social and labour market training, which is to be a full-time scheme and a completely different offer. What is the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen now talking about? Is it compulsory Norwegian training or is it an introduction benefit for refugees and their system? That's after all two different things, and it was for the labor party government a year ago as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e860	The President shall not interfere with the ongoing discussion of the content of the specific proposals but shall endeavour to provide some kind of constitutional guidance. A proposal adopted by the Stortinget is to be described as an instruction, while a majority remark is to be described as a signal of the political direction in which it is intended to go, but it cannot be understood as an instruction – so that all the representatives have this clear in the further exchange of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e863	President, can I have the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e870	Then it has to be pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e873	It is a manifest misunderstanding if the Council of State can't read what's going to be the decision of the Storing today. It says “introduction program”. We don't want those who come to Norway to meet with social assistance. We want them to meet with an introduction program, and it's going to apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e878	I don't know exactly where the misunderstanding is. Obviously, many people come here who do not have family reunification, people who have a humanitarian residence, and all the others who come to Norway. And those who are talking about linking up to a residence permit, or possibly a participation in Norwegian education, are a group that is initially to take the financial responsibility for, it is a group that does not qualify for social assistance, not least if in that context we are demanding that we have the ability to take spouses into the country. It's possible there are two different things, but then I have to say that it's a little unclear. But Stortinget is given the full opportunity to decide on the introduction programme when it is to be processed for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e883	Now we can't let this evolve into a line chord shift in the line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e886	I'm a little happy that the president stopped the exchange here between the representative and the council because I'm a little confused. If it is the case that the Council of State and the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen believe that all those who come to Norway should have such an introductory programme, then the Progress Party must jump from the proposal. The comments clearly state that the introduction programme is to be run for those who have received a permanent residence permit in Norway. This is important to clarify. As I understood the Council of State, it seemed more like everyone coming to Norway was going to have this programme. Back to the articles of the Council of State. I have to say that I was a little startled, because it seemed as if the Council of State used love between some spouses – where there was actually love in the picture – as an argument not to impose any sanctions or measures against forced marriage. I hope the Council of State can clarify that. Otherwise, the Progress Party sees the 30-point plan of the Government as very positive. We see that the government is working on this. But basically these points consist of a lot of information and prevention in that direction. Many of the points are repair work, i.e. repair of the damage that has already occurred. My challenge to the Council of State is: regardless of education in the school and public sector, some measures may be needed to stop the use of so many resources for information and repair at all. Then my question is: what action does the Council of State see that needs to be given priority in this context? Because that's what we're missing first and foremost now. And then my last question: does the Council of State see a link between Norwegian integration policy and the great influx of asylum that we now have?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e897	To start with the last one. I do not see a link between Norwegian integration policy and the great influx of asylum, but I see a link between the chaos and the problems we have had with the treatment of asylum seekers, the permits we have given, among other things. After the 15-month rule – that we have therefore been perceived as a more liberal country – as some of those things. And it's not just Norway that sees it. In that period England had a very long treatment period, they also had a much higher influx of asylum seekers than after they began to get order of the treatment period. I have just been to France, where the French authorities themselves admit that it can take up to three years before an application has been completed, probably contributes to an increase in the number of asylum seekers from just over 10,000 to 100,000 in four years – because they have problems streamlining their procedures. We see that many of the people who are coming are not coming because they think they're going to stay in Norway, they're actually coming because they see that they can have a good life in the period they're here before they're sent back, because unfortunately, there's a lot of poverty around the world, even in our neighbourhoods, which makes it better to live here. That's why we've also tightened up, to give completely different signals. That is why we have also done a lot of work to reduce the processing time, which now turns out to be falling. We see, for example: also from figures from the first quarter of this year that the inflow from what we define as a country with assumed landless applications decreases — from the fall of more than 40 pst. of the arrivals, until now between 25 and 35 pst. That means – I think – that some of our signals have worked. By sending people back quickly, we have turned it around. Then we're just going to hope that we find a solution to the conflict in question. [[The President clubs.]] I just want to say that my opinion is that such a training course should be about the circuit we already have a commitment to, which has been allowed to live. But I think one should think through the very relationship with Norwegian municipalities, that the municipal committee is also a municipal committee in this matter – one should know the realities of the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e908	In fact, if we are to take on seriously the challenges that local authorities are facing with these measures, both the Storting and the Government must commit themselves, not just to say that this is going to be implemented, but also to funding. There's some of the difference between the SV and what the government is presenting. So we want an obligatory financing of the measures. Very much of this is similar, and very much of what is in the government's 30-point plan, SV agrees. But it's also about the introduction programs. It is not possible to implement this in the local economy today. And if you say that this is both a right and an obligation, then of course it also obliges you to fund it, make sure you have it in place. Without it, this will be a task that you push down the municipalities, and that they have no possibility of financing. But then to who should have such a right. SV is very concerned that this right also has to apply to those who come to family reunification, because we know that there are just a part of these women who get the least opportunity to make their maritime choices and have a maritime life. And this is the key in. We also know that if there is no carrot and no whip attached to this, it is very easy to say that this does not require these women, they should nevertheless be in a traditional family pattern and even get cash support to be at home. Does not the Minister of State not see that by not giving this as an obligation and a right to all these are one of the groups we now want to target? Is there any doubt in the Council that that's what's going to be the result? [[The President clubs.]] If this is going to be voluntary and the municipalities are going to pick who is going to get it, doesn't she think it's the women who stand the most on the sea, who get it? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e917	My main point is that, at least during a transitional period, it is important that it is voluntary for the municipalities to decide whether to use the law that we propose. Then Stortinget will have an opportunity to discuss the circuit to which these offers are to be given, in relation to the legal provisions that are then to be contained. But I have to say that precisely because we are now on our way to getting pretty good housing figures, after we had stopped for several years when it comes to housing in the municipalities, I'm very concerned that we don't now think of anything that puts people back on refugee reception, and that we don't get them out again to the municipalities. It doesn't provide good integration. That is my warning in relation to the question of what is required. Then, of course, there are also questions about the time from which you decide to have it mandatory. It is clear that there will be another situation in five years. So do I. In five years it may be that you've gained the skills, the knowledge, well enough that all municipalities can have this. It will have something to do with the implementation date. But to do this overnight in many municipalities, based on what they do today and how they do it, among other things. have organised Norwegian training and other things, I think will actually cause the refugees to remain in the refugee shelter. So to the question of who should have a right. I believe that if it is to have some sense to talk about dependability at all, it must actually be that when people come here for family reunification, without people who are refugees or people who have come for humanitarian residence, the family actually has a dependable responsibility for those people. It's not that when you get here, you can go to the social office because you have a right to get an introduction course that will give an introduction benefit of 2 G for up to two years. Then there is no point in making a claim for a dependance obligation, because that is when you are depended on by the government. I don't think we should support everyone who marries Norway, but I think we should demand that they go to Norwegian courses. And that, I think, is the difference between all other parties and SV in this context. What we're going to do is they're going to participate in a Norwegian course, and we're going to evaluate the sanctioning possibilities for that. In that Norwegian course they will also receive community training, and it should not be possible to get away because husbands or others do not want them to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e930	I have followed with wonder the linecode exchange that has now been compared to an introduction program. I understand the Council of State so that it will facilitate voluntary action, it will continue its plans both when it comes to forced marriage and sex mutilation and other measures, but it will not set up funds. Let me say from the Centre Party's point of view that entering into a compulsory introduction programme is to take seriously what the NOU told us about the need for Norwegian training, the need for knowledge of Norwegian social conditions and the need to be quickly integrated into a work. But it is also obvious to the Central Party that if this is to be made mandatory, government and uplifting should be set up with the funds that may be necessary. Today, unemployment is significantly higher in the immigration environment than in the Norwegian community otherwise. We have to take this seriously, and we have to give people a good start. However, it should of course be such that an introduction should be made in cooperation with the municipalities in relation to what is needed. Is it the case that the Council of State disclaims responsibility for setting up funds and for the limits it will set here? And another question that concerns older immigrants who live in municipalities, and many of them have to go to social assistance because the social welfare scheme that the Stortinget has for the most part given its support, hasn't come into place: does the Council of State keep pace with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e940	As far as the question of supplementary social benefits for older immigrants is concerned, it is a responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as the former Minister of Social Affairs is sure to know. That's what the government is working on, and I expect us to do in a reasonably short time. We have worked to find a solution, we see that this is important in relation to the local authorities' obligations in this area. I would like to remind you that we from Stortingets had an exchange of letters with the previous government last year, where one among others. point out some issues related to EEA legislation and others when implementing these types of rules, i.e. whether a social security or social security benefit confers different types of rights when implementing this. So it was important to have a good basis for investigating it. But this is under full work, and I also hope that we can soon have that in place. We have to go back to Stortinget with it, both in terms of budget and in terms of legislation. I have not written any responsibility for money at all. I have just pointed out that as long as we do not have forced residence for refugees, we should bear in mind that the requirements for what municipalities should automatically set up can lead to a completely different reaction, namely that the municipalities say no to refugees. Then we have to be realistic about the pace we have of introducing these types of requirements. And that's one of the reasons I've been detained. But I say that I fully agree that everyone who is within the circle we have today a financial responsibility for when they come should have had such a program, precisely because this is a great potential in terms of getting people to work faster and so you could have a much better use of the job we have, and actually over time saved money over the budgets, by getting both lower social spending and increased income. But I think we have to be aware that in the society we live, where there is a municipal autonomy and a municipal veto against accepting refugees, we have to have that balance, at what rate we impose this, and why we set this as mandatory. It can sometimes be that the best thing is to be the enemy of good, and it would be sad if there were many refugees left in the open. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e947	I think it's okay for the Council of State to clarify that there is actually disagreement in the Storting regarding the introduction programme and the question of whether it should be mandatory or not. But I think it's very bad that you can't agree to have a mandatory introduction program. The Labour Party believes that one of the most important and central tools for success in the integration debate is that we succeed in providing our new compatriots with good Norwegian training and knowledge of Norwegian society. A mandatory introduction programme will provide basic Norwegian knowledge, and we in the Workers' Party believe that it is important that we start an introduction programme that is mandatory and that embraces all those who come to the country. I therefore think that the Council of State is very defensive when she does not want to introduce an introduction programme that is mandatory, and I think it is defensive when it comes to depending on which municipality the refugees come to, whether they get an introduction programme or not. I also think it is totally unacceptable that there is a argument about whether or not all of our countrymen's introduction programmes should be mandatory, depending on local self-government. I think that the Council of States should consider turning around in this matter, for this is a crucial factor in the success of our integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e956	The size is presented in June and can then decide whether they believe that the introduction programme should be compulsory and binding for all municipalities or whether it should be voluntary. That investigation comes to Stortinget, and then you get in that connection, I think, decide whether the offer given then should be mandatory or voluntary, and what personality it should be given to. But I want to say that all that Gunn Karin Gjul said – and that is important – is an argument for compulsory Norwegian education with community knowledge, which we therefore agree on. We agree that we should have a system for everyone who comes, not just for those who are refugees or who are on humanitarian grounds, because that is the basis for being able to live in Norwegian society. I therefore think it is important to consider what are our programme obligations towards refugees and those who receive residence and residence permits on a humanitarian basis, and what are our obligations towards the other group. There is no doubt that everyone will be offered a mandatory Norwegian scheme in the future. But the question is, who's going to get 2 G in pay to go on that introduction program? And who should be entitled to labour market-related measures? That'll be the main difference of the two groups. One will be to perceive as a full-time job you do, while the other is something you have to do over a period of time, by participating in a course and gaining qualifications for, for example, to maintain and hold a permanent residence permit, if that is the conclusion. I think this is an interesting discussion in itself, but I think it is important that last year, when we dealt with these principles in connection with St.meld. No 17 for 2000–01, the introduction programmes and compulsory Norwegian training were clearly distinguished. However, the Labour Party did not say anything about how they would conduct compulsory Norwegian training. It said nothing more than that you wanted it; it didn't say how it was to be done, how the demands were to be made, or what penalties it was going to have at the time. It requires investigation, it requires follow-up. There's nothing to do overnight, because it's a pretty big program to be implemented. We're also taking the time to do that. But I just want to say that the reason why we're skeptical about the mandatory introduction program now is that we're afraid of the refugees who are not going to get into a municipality, if we make this mandatory for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e967	The speakers who are given the floor in this matter shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's already drawn a lot of speakers to three-minute posts. The President is probably the one with the best time tonight, and only makes it clear that the Municipal Committee and two other committees have a number of issues to deal with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e972	My group should not steal too much speaking time. I just want to comment on some of the suggestions. The Labour Party has proposals that I find targeted and sensible, and which I have no problems with supporting, with the exception of proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox The progress party is bombing bad. The proposals are too general, they are too broad, and they end up in mere foresight towards all Norwegian citizens. Thus, a Norwegian US student who falls in love with a 20-year-old American fellow student should not be able to marry and live in Norway until both are 24 years old – six years older than the age of authority. ANSA, the organisation of foreign students, should have protested against such a gross form of guardianship. And as if that wasn't enough, then Carl I. Hagen and his people will also interfere in how people will live. Requiring to have a place to live is not unreasonable to get a spouse to the country, but Carl I. Hagen and his people are also going to mix up in private, personal Norwegian housing standards. Before I started at Stortinget in 1989, I lived in an apartment of 10 m2. That went well. I know many Northmen who live with their spouses in multigenerational homes, that is, with their parents. It also works great. But if I now want to marry a more than 24-year-old girl from another country, then Carl I. Hagen and his people require that we have to have a «own suitable home» that some bureaucrat, or perhaps Carl I. Hagen or Per Sandberg, must approve, because it should be «appropriate». Maybe I could imagine renting a room for myself and my new spouse with a friend and then sharing the kitchen. But no, that's not good enough for guardian Hagen. If I marry a foreigner, I have to find a nice place to stay in a «own suitable dwelling». These are not targeted measures against coercion. This is going back several steps, to the old guardian state that the Progress Party was founded to combat. But it doesn't surprise anyone that Carl I. Hagen continues to interfere in other people's private lives. At least there's no new experience for myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e985	The President would point out that the representative is moving at the border of what can be called improper and discouraging speech by co-representatives. He strongly recommends that you seek to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e988	More and more people are running away. There is no reason to believe that the number of people who change countries and places of residence will decrease. The world has become so that more people need a port of refuge. Fortunately, all the parties on the Stortinget stand together to receive people on the run. Even the Progress Party, as I understand it, opens at least in order to receive quota refugees through the UN. The debate goes along completely different lines than the total closure of the frontier. I start here, because this challenges us all. How are we all equipped to create the best possible multicultural society, where we tell ourselves and we as much as possible, and not them and you? After the events of the last few days, there may also be reason to stop and ask not only why it goes wrong for a few, but why we have actually managed to succeed with so many. The debate over the last few days on the integration of immigrants has fully demonstrated that self-marking, party tactics and the widest possible outlook have been largely the driving force behind the debate. Unfortunately, most of the proposals we are dealing with here also seem to be influenced by the same. At a time when we first need to create voluntary action, understanding and dialogue, many of the proposals are subject to coercion and confrontation. It is requested, for example. on mandatory health control of a group of girls with whom we would have liked to talk more – on a voluntary basis. To vote against such a proposal doesn't mean at all that we don't want to help these girls who are in the risk zone of sexual mutilation. In addition, it is wise, in the same way, to wait for issues relating to the criminal framework to see this in full with other legislation. However, we must not forget that the penalties for violence and threats against family members are far more extensive than those applied by the courts when they rarely apply them in this area. The belief that punishment is going to solve this problem is pretty much beyond the real effect. In relation to the events of the last few days, there is also reason to point out that depriving people of citizenship because of criminal offences can quickly be contrary to international obligations. It also raises a practical problem: where are these people going? I think it is certainly important that we politicians stick to proposals that can actually be implemented, and only then can we achieve changes through effective policies. It is not the case that the most high-sounding proposals and the most important headlines provide the best results. From this point of view, this debate is a good sign and a reference to the more grey and boring measures on strengthening working life, schools and youth environments around it. I think that is something the proposers, especially from the Progress Party, should learn from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e999	I am constantly amazed that as soon as dramatic events occur in Norway, all the political parties are on the track and are calling for action. What surprises me the most is that when the Progress Party makes concrete proposals, you don't want to join them. We have now seen the tragic consequences of a lack of integration policy, and yet we are refusing to take the decisions. I don't understand what the reasons can be for total decision-making in the case of refugees and immigrants. The genius has not worked, and we have recently been confirmed by many and most credible teams. Then we have to do something else. And then this is exactly Document No. The 8-proposal is a way of dealing. I actually thought – with all due respect – that all political parties now had their eyes up on what is happening in some of the immigrant communities: coercion, violence and sexual mutilation. And then we're accused of turning open doors. But it is then necessary to jam, when no one dares to move through the doorway. If the laws that have been passed had worked, you wouldn't have experienced the different tragic fates that we've heard of lately. Fine words and festivities, solidarity and support – yes! But we also need action. We agree that it is unacceptable for girls to be co-married or sexually mutilated. It should be obvious that parents are held responsible if their children are subjected to sexual mutilation or coercion. Had this been a child of Norwegian parents, child protection had been immediately on the track, and the child had been placed acutely. Then it is not a matter of believing when you talk about equality for all those living in Norway, if you do not choose to support the proposals of the Progress Party to make parents responsible for gender mutilation. Clearly, parents who expose their children to this type of abuse should have been tried and convicted. How else should the immigrant communities have any respect for Norwegian laws and regulations? If we look through the fingertips of children and young people and don't immediately strike down on all the crimes, it's coercion, violence or mutilation, we'll probably experience more tragic events in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1010	I was surprised by the change of chords after the articles of the Council of State. Let me therefore state that a majority in the Stortinget – Labour Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre – today appears to be willing to decide that ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement a mandatory introduction programme as soon as possible’, etc., and that ‘the Government is asked to present the necessary legislative proposals so that the introduction programme can be combined with an introduction support based on the mandatory participation of the newcomer in the programme’. This means that a majority in the UK believes that instead of transferring money to the municipalities to social assistance for the refugees and those who enter and receive permanent residence, those who come should meet with a programme to be combined with receiving an introduction benefit linked to their actual implementation. The majority have not provided detailed guidance on the extent of the introduction benefit, etc. In addition, the Committee has asked the Government to assess — and I stress — ‘whether the offer should also apply in the case of family reunification by marriage’. Thus, in the first case – the decision – an assessment is not requested. There's a decision. Based on what the Council of State has said, I ask her to confirm unequivocally that she will follow the Storting decision. In other words, in the law she has notified, the Council of State will rely on the decision of the Storting, not on the situation as it is before the Stortinget makes its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1024	First, a little comment on the post for Karin S. Woldseth from the Progress Party. In fact, violence against family members has been banned for a long time. Some of us have been involved in the crisis center movement since it started. I have to say, it's quite discouraging that despite the fact that this is forbidden, it happens all the time. Unfortunately, just banning something is not always enough. There's a lot of other things that also have to work out. It's not like when we have decided something here in the Stortinget, the job is done. I'm kind of given over that way of reasoning. But then to this with the mandatory introduction program, because it's a very important thing. We have thought that there must be both a carrot and a whip to get this to – a right and a duty. And it's not that 2 G is an option for someone who can go straight into work in a job, because you want to earn more – and you want to choose it. A very large number can do so, and such a mandatory introduction program does not at all close up for such a solution. On the contrary, it is in the setting of a unanimous committee that one must either have undergone such an introduction programme, or one must otherwise have acquired equivalent knowledge in order to obtain permanent residence permits. Once we input 2 G, it's not to hit the legs under the dependability, but it's to add a carrot for those who otherwise only want as an alternative to being at home. So there's a carrot here for these women, because we know that some men don't see a big point in the fact that women are going to be able to acquire knowledge. Some of them see the opposite of a threat in it, because then the women can stand on their own feet and move forward in society. I'm a little stunned by the firm argument of the Council of State against such thinking, especially because it's a unanimous committee that adheres to these principles. Does this mean that the government parties on the Stortinget, including the Council of State, are in conflict with their own government on these issues? And does that mean that the Government is not prepared to establish such a device on this introduction program, but on the contrary is going to present something quite different to us as a decision-making basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1033	I'd like to continue where Karin Andersen left off. The whole point of these introduction programmes is that they should be tailor-made, and they should be user-oriented, which should be fully in line with the government's government policy on public policy. I'd like to refer to what's in the setting. It created confusion from the state councils here instead — whether the committee was rooted in this with mandatory introduction programmes and this with mandatory language training. We are well aware of mandatory language training; it was a unanimous committee for last year in connection with the processing of the asylum and refugee message. At the bottom of page 11 of the setting, in the right column, it says: ‘The Committee asks the Government to assess whether the offer should also apply to family reunification by marriage.’ We're not talking about all family reunions necessarily, but definitely about family reunification by marriage. This is, moreover, in line with what the UDI has stated in its hearing opinion, with which the Council of State is, of course, familiar. The council says that there is no sense in this, it should not be the responsibility of the state, but the spouse's responsibility to support someone who may marry him. And until there are two things to say: This with family reunification tied up to a dependant obligation, we have agreed with the Government that you have to take a round to see how to tighten up the practice. We believe that this should not be done necessarily in order for someone who is married to a foreigner to provide for him. We do this primarily because we want it on the basis of a motivation to make sure that the person who marries is financially independent. It's about the financial autonomy of these women that we're talking about here, and that's our motivation for going into such a case. The second part of this is what points out what I think is a wrong part of integration policy, namely that at the moment we talk about asylum seekers and people who stay in Norway, we are talking about the responsibility of the state, while it is solely the responsibility of the family at the moment of marriage. It's a loser. It's a loss not to make sure that the same integration measures that we know are working against someone are also used to people who are committed to government commitments to take care of. It is so important to ensure this integration, and then, in our opinion, it is important that we implement this for people who come to family reunion. At least the Committee agrees to have this investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1050	As far as the debate is concerned, I would like to say that I think this is a very good debate on serious issues. Many difficult areas have been debated, and there are many dilemmas in these matters. The last discussion we have had now, about mandatory introduction programmes, and the way in which the Council of State turned this over to, has closed the debate. I am pleased that the Progress Party supports the proposal for a mandatory introduction programme. We know what that is, because we've tried it in 26 municipalities. It works, and that's what we want. It shall be compulsory for the municipalities and it shall be compulsory for the individual, with some exceptions. And the state has to commit, because this costs money. If the Minister of State tries to talk this out and offer other solutions on compulsory Norwegian training, this is not what Stortinget is asking for. It is quite clear in the setting which is to be included under the scheme. This shall apply to refugees, those who are granted a humanitarian residence permit and those who receive family reunification with them. And then there's something in the comment that's not in the proposal, that you ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with an investigation about limitations in relation to other family reunions. And when the decision is now taken, the Council of State must follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy. It has to be clear. Governments say there are 8,800 refugees this year, the same number next year, etc. Yes, that's why it's so important that this now becomes mandatory. We need the labour force. The municipalities are struggling, not just to settle refugees, but to make the social aid budgets in the municipalities very high. And maybe that's why they're skeptical about accepting refugees, but if they get to work, the municipalities are interested in it, and it's a good resource use. It costs some money in the first place, but in the long run this will be the best for the immigrants and for the Norwegian community. If we make it mandatory, the Council of State does not have to worry about those who do not receive the offers, because that will apply to everyone who comes under these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1061	My concern is not for those who do not come under this, my concern is that we come back to the situation we were in two years ago when it came to housing, because the municipalities took very few to settle. So I think we'll think about what I'm actually saying, because here we also have to make sure that you get the offer. What has been investigated is a very good program. So there are very clear demands and individual rights in the programme to come, in terms of its content. An introductory programme is required, not just to call an introductory programme, but to the quality and follow-up of it, which is to be based on individual decisions, and you can actually complain about the offer you receive in relation to the law given. And it's a pretty strong rights reform for those who settle, and that's why I'm somewhat concerned that this can be pushed quickly on the municipalities. I think we would have gotten a better process if we had gone softly into that process with the municipalities, because I think it's a genuine desire and a genuine interest to get people to work, once you've said yes. But I have a lot of communication with municipalities that don't want to settle refugees for the time being, and I see what they're dealing with. Then I have to say that I'm a little concerned that we should have three such reforms down the municipalities quickly. This law is needed for those municipalities that have come a long way, because they are sitting and waiting and have clear arrangements, but there are many who do not yet have it, and many people need a good time to build up enough capacity to implement it. So for confusion and who's confused. I think I've heard well here, and there's a difference between what SV means, and what the others think, about what it's going to be like in the future about the personality, and who's going to be covered here. It was unclear earlier. I have now made it clear that it is the same personality that the government intends to add, the same group of people will receive the offer. Of course, I am going to investigate and present a proposal based on the decisions taken by the Stortinget, but it must also be allowed to say what the back can be, and have a discussion on the pace at which such a reform can be implemented. This may slow down when the law can come into force, because the municipalities are faced with demands that they are not prepared to meet today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1068	During this day the debate has focused more and more on the setting up of refugees and asylum seekers, and it is important that there is a good dialogue between the ministry and the municipalities in that area. State Council Solberg is the Minister for Integration; that's why I asked her questions when there was an additional social welfare scheme for older immigrants. I have gained experience that that group is also a dilemma today for many municipalities, and it is very good that she now announces the follow-up from the government side at that point. A delay occurred which exceeded the current timeout limit. It has taken time and is now a dilemma for many municipalities because it results in extra costs. This is also part of the assessment in some municipalities when it comes to busing refugees. So finally just a few words relative to the introduction program. I'm worried about the continuation if the Council of State still has the same attitude to the municipalities as it shows in the Stortinget today. It is likely that in municipalities there is a strong desire to get people out of work as quickly as possible, and to have them have compulsory Norwegian training as of now, and to use the Norwegian they acquire in connection with the labour market. A pattern has been created through the experiments that have been done, and if the government now made it right, one could actually expect that in some municipalities, the settlement was even easier, because one then also received active support in relation to an introduction program that went a little further than Norwegian training. But the leadership is clearly a positive dialogue and as good an interaction as possible between the department to follow this up, and the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1077	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 2346]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1106	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1113	We are going to re-examine private proposals that have been promoted after the dramatic killing of Swedish Fadime. This time it is Document No. 8:47, proposals for stricter controls on asylum seekers and Document No. 8:55, proposal to stop all private settlement. At the outset, it is important to point out that Norway has undertaken international obligations in relation to the reception of asylum seekers and refugees. This is at the root of the policy we are going to pursue. In Document No: 8:47, proposals for stricter controls on asylum seekers, Jan Simonsen suggests that the Stortinget ask the Government to introduce a ‘fast paragraph’ into the Foreign Affairs Act so that asylum applications which are ‘clearly groundless’ are rejected without any right of appeal. Simonsen also has a proposal No. 2 establishing the necessary access or authorisation of the foreign authorities to hold specific asylum seekers in receptions with strong restrictions on the freedom of movement or full custody of the recipient of asylum until the application has been completed. Proposal No. 3 the establishment of specific asylum-seekers organised in such a way that there can be a strong restriction on the freedom of movement or full detention of asylum-seekers for whom such restrictions are imposed by the authorities. All parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, agree to reject Simonsen's proposals. In Document No: 8:55, proposal to stop all private settlement, proposes the Progress Party in proposal No. 1 not to initiate attempts at private residence of asylum seekers. In proposal No 2 it is proposed to downgrade the year's budgeted receipt of asylum seekers from 12 000 to 6 000 in the revised budget. Proposal No. 3 intensifies the establishment of ‘extended’ closed UDI receivers. Here too, all the proposals are rejected. The Progress Party shall remain on its own, except in the case of the proposal for private housing, where the Workers' Party is involved. In the two settings, a unanimous committee is concerned about the high number of asylum seekers coming to the country. Nearly 15 000 people applied for asylum in Norway in 2001. UDI considers 40 pst. of all asylum applications in order to be manifestly groundless. The forecasts for the current year suggest about 18 000 asylum seekers. These are the facts, and the proposals of the Progress Party to downgrade the year's budgeted receipt of asylum seekers from 12 000 to 6 000 are totally unrealistic. A large number of asylum seekers require a functioning reception apparatus. That's the way it's been with respect not to report. In recent years, the reception apparatus in connection with the large arrival of asylum seekers has not functioned satisfactorily. For this reason, the Committee expresses its concern that the consequences have been both high costs and lengthy processing times, which has once again exceeded those asylum seekers who really have a need for protection. The government has now taken action in relation to both the reception of asylum seekers and the treatment of criminal asylum seekers. We already have the right to return quickly applicants with clearly groundless applications. The same applies to measures against criminal asylum seekers. The Foreign Affairs Act provides the possibilities. Several new measures have already been taken and the UDI process is now much faster. Asylum seekers should be interviewed immediately after arrival. They are divided into three different categories: non-groundless, presumed well-founded and other cases. Applicants with suspected unfounded applications shall be handled in a separate course, physically separate from other asylum seekers. The work includes, inter alia: the establishment of two new types of asylum recipients: asylum centres and waiting transit, where the aim is to leave and where there is a greater degree of staffing, watchkeeping and security. The aim is fast return and short reception. Cooperation with the police has intensified, as has the foreign stations. A tighter and better organisation has been carried out. The proposal to stop all attempts and design of private housing for asylum seekers appears to be both premature and unnecessarily dramatised. This is a very limited trial in one state and only in force in 2002. The test shall then be evaluated. In addition, the majority of the Committee makes provision for this to be done in cooperation with both the Vestfold County and the municipalities concerned. The fact that the Advance Party is promoting the proposal does not surprise me, but I put a big question mark at the Workers' Party, which will now stop a trial project that they themselves have adopted in government – and before there is any experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1158	The Labour Party does not support the proposals promoted by the representative Simonsen on stricter controls on asylum seekers. The Labour Party points out that under the previous government a work was started to implement a number of actions related to the organisation of the UDI. This has been followed up by the new government, and the Storting has increased the appropriations for UDI. All these measures include more stringent controls on asylum seekers: a cut-off of the right of appeal in so-called ‘clearly groundless’ asylum interview immediately coming to the country and applying for asylum requirements to take immediate decisions if the applicant is involved in crime and, at the latest within eight days, obviously applies to groundless applications; These are some of the measures. That is good, because there is also a great need for these things to work better and for the queues to decrease. There are very many asylum seekers coming to the country, and the number is increasing. We have problems dealing with all the asylum seekers that are flowing on. Most of them are groundless applications, and applicants do not need protection and should return as soon as possible. In such chaos there is a danger that those who really need protection will not receive the treatment they should have. It's a concern for the Workers' Party. This is why we believe that the Minister of State, who on several occasions has called for Norway to need more immigrants, and wants to open it up in the case of unskilled workers, should consider. Sending such signals in today’s situation can easily be seen as being possible to obtain a work permit in Norway only at the border. Now all the forces must be inserted to get control and stop all those who come without a reason. The Labour Party will oppose proposal No. 3 into the innermost. S. No 124, from the Progress Party, to intensify the establishment of ‘extended’ closed UDI receivers, but note that the Government is now considering measures to limit the freedom of movement of criminal asylum seekers and will await the proposals put forward by the Government. The Labour Party agrees that there is a need for a distinction between those asylum seekers who have accepted groundless asylum applications and other asylum seekers and that such reception for asylum seekers with unfounded applications would involve increased control of the reception. The proposals of the Progress Party to stop all forms of private residence of asylum seekers are supported by the Workers' Party. We believe it is unfortunate to introduce a new private housing trial project now, and that it will make work with, among other things. to provide housing for the new immigrants to be settled in the municipalities to be included in such a test project. Problems in the housing market are the main reason why central municipalities do not have the power to settle the number they have requested. In addition, granting an authorisation for private housing would further exacerbate the situation of the housing market in the municipalities concerned. When the representative Holmberg asks why we do not want to be part of such a scheme until we have tried it out, it is because Sweden has had such a self-settlement scheme for some time. The result is negative. It now turns out that such a system leads to congestion, even more social problems, ghettos, and that the police do not find people who have been refused a decision and are going to be sent out. At the moment, we have enough problems if we are not going to impose even more – voluntarily. Of course, the Labour Party does not support proposal No. 2 in the Input. S. No 124 to downgrade the year's budgeted receipt of asylum seekers, which is estimated at only 6000 and not 12000. How the Progress Party should regulate this is a mystery for the Workers' Party. It's at least unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1190	Today, the Progress Party is promoting around 25 proposals – including the proposals in relation to Document No. 8:47 and Document No 8:55 – to improve Norwegian integration, asylum and immigration policies. But, unfortunately, once again, all the other parties, with a few small exceptions, will pass over themselves in their zeal to distance themselves from the immigration policy views of the Progress Party, and none of the other parties – with a few small exceptions – will vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party in these matters. This is really encouraging, because several of the proposals of the Progress Party are very good. I dare say that many of the proposals of the Progress Party could have been adopted here today instead of following the tradition of waiting five to ten years until one finally realizes that the proposals of the Progress Party were not so stupid anyway. However, in five to ten years' time, the likely situation in the area of integration, refugee and asylum has become even more difficult if we are to follow what the other parties seem to believe today. So today, the Progress Party is promoting a number of good proposals to do something about a serious societal issue, which is accelerating the pace of Norwegian politicians out of control. And at a time when Norwegian immigration, refugee and asylum policies appear to be close to a political scandal, it is appropriate for despair to witness that all the other political parties are just talking and talking. They talk, but they don't have the power to do anything particularly concrete to significantly improve the situation. It continues to be too small to reject manifestly groundless asylum applications. Furthermore, criminal asylum seekers shall not be able to remain in reception until the application has been processed, nor will the majority in this case establish their own closed UDI recipients for that purpose. In this case, the number of asylum seekers will also not be reduced and the number reduced by effective means, from 12 000 to 6 000. Not even the private settlement of asylum seekers, which has been shown not to be particularly successful, including the following: in Sweden, you want to stop. And on top of it all, we have a local government minister from the Right who has long broadcast a message to the world that there is an ever-increasing need for labour here in Norway. This fact, combined with Schengen and the provocative economic and social rights of those who find their way to Norway, now makes Norway a magnet for both counterfeit and genuine asylum seekers from around the world. The result is that the asylum flow to Norway is still setting new records, and that is something like 20,000 asylum seekers expected to go to Norway this year. And this is likely to continue, because effective proposals that could have slowed down or reduced the pressure on asylum against Norway will be voted down on a continuous basis in the national Parliament. Norwegian immigration policy has long been hampered by a far-reaching debate, in which everyone has been concerned about being against the Progress Party. We can only look at the debate here today! But many in this country are gradually seeing that the price of integrating foreigners now in several ways is becoming unacceptablely high for Norwegian society. I think we have to start ignoring those who are screaming up about racism and xenophobia and letting the debate go free, without prejudices, and letting the freedom of expression be fully advised on this matter. Because in the wake of the influx of asylum there are a number of negative societal consequences that we need to debate continuously without fear of being accused of racism or other discomforts about spreading xenophobia or being xenophobic. The positions of the other parties on the two issues discussed here are an example of how powerless and irresponsible this room is in relation to improving Norwegian immigration, asylum and refugee policies in 2002. Here the Progress Party wants to go ahead and open up a free and prejudiced debate on these issues. I show you in this way, among other things. to the proposals we have in the two matters we are dealing with here, which I will deal with on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1205	Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1208	I thought I would start from the principle, and that is that as long as there is war in the world, as long as there are environmental disasters and as long as there is poverty, people will be on the run. And as long as there are oppressive regimes that persecute people, as long as there is intolerance and lack of respect for the fact that people are different, people will be persecuted because of their sexual orientation, their political or religious perception, their skin color, their ethnicity or their gender. And as long as there is oppression, fortunately the oppressed will seek refuge elsewhere, and such a place of refuge is Norway — a country that, in a world context, receives few refugees. And if we look at our own close story, then at the beginning of last century, housekeepers fled from poverty in Norway to the United States to clear up land. And during World War II, people fled to Sweden, England and the Soviets to escape German oppressors. And in the context of the close history, we have signed the Refugee Convention, which obliges the Norwegian state to accept refugees – and that is good. And per year. Today, there is no reason to believe that the differences between the poor and the rich in Europe and the rest of the world will be smaller, and thus more people will be looking for a better place to grow up, individually and in the family. And when we look at the situation in Palestine today, there is not exactly hope that all occupation and oppression will cease. As a result, more people will apply to Norway because they are looking for a new home country for a shorter or longer period of time, where they can live well and safely. Last year there were 15 000. Forecasts turn for this year, but no one is going to fall off the chair if there are going to be at least the same number this year. And in Norway, we have a strict immigration policy. We have an immigration stop, with certain exceptions for specialists, and we have a strict refugee policy. Less than two thirds of the people who come and apply for asylum are sent out again by Norway and are refused treatment. We believe that more people must receive asylum rather than stay on a humanitarian basis, and that is in line with the UNCHR recommendations. Several people have to get under the refugee concept, and that's why we're very pleased with the government bill, in Ot. pp. No 48 for 2001–02, to lay down the conditions for being considered as a refugee, in order to include, inter alia: may receive gender-based persecution as a basis for stay in Norway. I think that's very good. But on to the concrete proposals. We're against everyone because some of them are unnecessary, and because some of them are inhuman. Take Jan Simonsen's suggestion first. We believe that they are unnecessary because in the UDI they are in the process of speeding up the processing of suspected groundless applications and the rapid dispatch of asylum seekers with manifestly groundless applications. Simonsen has as his main motive that we should meet refugees, economic refugees and criminals in the same way, and I read from the proposal in Document No. 8:47: ‘The asylum-seekers from Member States of the Council of Europe shall be heard immediately at the place of arrival and the decision shall, as a general rule, be taken immediately after the end of the hearing.’ – ‘If, for practical reasons, this is difficult, the asylum-seeker shall remain in custody until the decision is taken.’; - It's totally hair-driving! This would lead to people being in custody for months if we were to implement such a proposal. So it's like -- now I don't have numbers from the Council of Europe's Member States -- that 2,000 Europeans got a stay last year, 7 000 were rejected -- roughly. That means that 2,000 of the people that we, with today's strict rules, would still be allowed to stay, would be kept in custody if we had followed this proposal. I do not think that is a good thing to be in favour of, therefore we are also against, but I note that the Progress Party welcomes the proposal. The second concerns the set of proposals from the Progress Party. The proposal to reduce this year's budgeted reception from 12,000 refugees to 6,000 falls on their own unfairness, all the time the Progress Party itself is going around talking about having to receive up to 18,000 refugees. What are we going to do with the number? 6001? Should we send him to Sweden? This would at least be contrary to the proposals made by the Progress Party, namely international cooperation with other Schengen Member States, and where the Government asks for greater application of the Dublin Convention. The Dublin Convention is used to send out people registered in the first country — we already do in Norway — with two exceptions: it is for minor asylum seekers and people who UDI believes it is faster to send out instead of waiting for the treatment period to end. I would then like to ask the Progress Party: against which of these two groups does it believe that the Dublin Convention should be applied?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1240	First, a little visit to the representative Torbjørn Andersen from the Progress Party, who is concerned that the Progress Party's 25 actions are limited to several. But no doubt, the Government only has a number of measures to combat coerciveness — a total of 30 measures. And they get multiples and become active policies. The proposal that no asylum seekers in reception should be allowed to find accommodation on their own seems disappointing to me. I'm glad it doesn't get multiples. But that the Labour Party should be so much against private solutions that they don't see that asylum seekers who want to take care of themselves, who want the most normal presence, who want to get out of passivity, who want to establish networks and contact with Norwegian society, as a trial scheme should get access to private settlement, are incomprehensible for the Christian People's Party. Of course, the government can only budget with real figures based on realistic forecasts. There is no reason to assume that the number of asylum seekers will be aggrieved and still 6 000 this year. That is why the proposal is no. 2 from the Progress Party in Document No. 8:55 unresponsive. Of course, Norway has a problem when one in three asylum seekers from some Eastern bloc countries after the media have criminal scrolls. But the government is thus in the process of establishing a new reception system that will make a physical distinction between asylum seekers who may come here with unfounded applications, and other asylum seekers, with the rapid transmission of the first group. Some receptions will also be strengthened. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that two out of three asylum seekers from these Eastern bloc countries may have baseless applications, but they are not criminals and neither should they be treated as criminals. In Dokument No. 8:47 three proposals which go in the same direction as those contained in Document No. 8:55. We are all, to some extent, with the proposer in that it is alarming that the number of asylum seekers who come here with baseless applications increases, because the treatment takes time, it costs money and it creates difficulties for asylum seekers with a real need for protection. We may well be a few that there is an abuse of the institution of asylum, but it is not criminal. Neither shall they be treated as criminals. The Christian People's Party will also note that it must be a fact that the Schengen Agreement has led to what we, as opponents, pointed out, simply an increase in the number of asylum seekers in parallel with the reduction of border controls. But that's why the government is also working intensively and purposefully to start a quick return and for a two-thirds of the reception system where asylum seekers who, I believe, have no reason to seek asylum, get the application processed quickly and are therefore sent out of the country after a short period of time. In addition, the procedure has to be reduced in general. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government has taken appropriate action to address the challenges faced by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1260	The centre party is part of the wide plural that rejects both the contents of Document No. 8:47 and in Document No 8:55. For our part, we do it partly because we think they're unnecessary, and partly because we're disagreeable. So just a few brief comments from my page. First to Document No. 8:47. It is strange to listen to the closest salvage-filled indignation of the Progress Party today over the very instigation of asylum seekers to Norway. It is a fact that Norway has joined the Schengen cooperation, which is the reason for this. Norway has a common external border with 14 other Schengen countries. The internal border control has been removed. It is most likely that one would like to ask if it is such that the Progress Party regrets that, in its time, they took part in the decision to accede to Schengen and should therefore now actually take responsibility for a situation which they themselves have been able to resolve. And if that's how they undo, I'll stress that as long as there's war, as long as there's nudity and natural disasters, there'll be people on the run. Norway shall take its responsibility for providing protection in this way. It has been said from the Council of State that she has now given UDI the opportunity to change the procedures when it is in force so-called open-ended applications. In the same way as the rest of the Committee, we support the Council of States to put in place measures that allow asylum seekers to open groundless applications and those involved in crime to be sent quickly out of the country and listed for eight days. I'll ask her to clarify what this eight-day rule actually means. When I challenge her on that, it's because I think there's some case where there might be a little more time to check if an application is open-ended. If an operator has a deadline of eight days, it may help to ensure that applications that are open-ended are still covered by the normal category because the time was too short to check it out properly, or one may also risk that the aspect of legal security is not sufficiently taken into account. So here, there's a need for flexibility both in terms of efficiency and in relation to ensuring legal certainty. I would like to thank the Council of State for having contributed to a reduction in the length of the procedure for those who need to have their application carefully evaluated. So to Document No. 8:55. The Centre Party notes the following comments from the Committee: ‘This majority assumes that pilot projects are not initiated without cooperation with the County Municipality of Vestfold and the municipalities concerned.’;» An attempt at private construction is something that Stortinget has agreed to last year. It seems to me that something is trying to intervene in that process at this point when there is only one project that should last for one year, i.e. out of 2002. But of course, it is a premise that it takes place in consultation with the municipalities and municipalities involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1280	Just a few short notes. Several things have been addressed in the two committee settings currently under consideration. In addition, some suggestions have been put to the vote later today. I want to comment on just a few main things. Hopefully, we now see the results of some of the measures we have taken, which reduce the number of people with manifestly groundless applications from the six countries from which it is assumed that asylum seekers should not come. At the same time, we have a big inflow, but it's a little bit smaller now than it initially looked to be. We operated for a while because we thought it would come to 20,000. Now the estimates seem to be 18 000 this year. I would like to point out that since August there has been a downward trend. There has been a discussion in many media related to the difference between Norway and Denmark. If we start from the Danish elections, the monthly growth rate has been the same in Norway after the Danish elections that it has been in Denmark after the Danish elections. But if we compare January last year and January this year, there is a difference. I would like to remind you that in January last year we closed down a number of asylum recipients. We had a very low influx of refugees at that time, but then something happened that changed it. What happened was not that I opened my mouth and said that we needed more work immigration. What happened was that we got the Schengen Agreement. We no longer have visa barriers for a number of countries in Eastern Europe, to which it has been opened in the course of the year, as part of EU enlargement work. This has caused us to see inflows in large quantities just when that has happened. Bulgaria is the big example, but we've also seen it in many of the other countries. That's what we're working on with a number of measures to define. The main measure is to reduce the duration of proceedings. Now I think you've mixed up times. The 8-day standard set out in my letter of assignment to the UDI concerns the rapid treatment of criminal asylum seekers. It is not a matter of supposed groundless applications, which are also to be dealt with quickly. When the police report that a person is being investigated for criminal activity and is an asylum seeker, the application should be processed quickly, and we have said that it should be possible to do so within 8 days – hopefully it should be possible to do so even more quickly. Our biggest problem on that side is that many of the criminal acts committed by asylum seekers are the type of crime that the Norwegian police do not give priority to investigating, even in the case of Norwegians. It's nasking, petty thefts and that kind of thing – but here too we're working with the police. So a little bit about the Schengen Convention. To be quite honest, the Schengen Convention has caused us so far greater problems than it has been a good thing for us. Now you can say that it has to do with some of the other cooperation being delayed, for example. Eurodac, where the French have been sitting and slowing down a little bit. They have discussed what kind of fingerprints you should have, whether they should be round or whether they should be flat. There are many major international discussions about things – one of the more curious is this one, which has thus delayed the creation of Eurodac by one year. It'll be all right now. This means that the police will gradually get a better grip on working on what is also important in the area of Schengen cooperation, namely better police cooperation, better cross-border mechanisms to do something about the really serious crime of trafficking in human beings, which is financial crime, and which is why some of us believe that the Schengen Agreement is a good deal. In addition, if the EU is to further develop the common asylum and refugee policy, there is much evidence that it can actually improve the situation for Norway, because the preliminary directives that are in the EU suggest that there is a stronger requirement to treat asylum seekers better than what is actually being done today, for example. in the case of asylum recipients, and we believe that over time this could lead to less pressure on Norway, because Norway and the Nordic countries today appear to be countries that are generally better. Then I'd like to say something about the Dublin Convention. It's said that we're going to use the Dublin Convention more than what we're doing today. We use the Dublin Convention where we think it is appropriate to use it. The only reason why we do not think it is appropriate to use it is that we believe that the Dublin Convention will actually lead to a delay in the deployment process. In the case of the suspected unfounded applications, it is faster to deal with them than to wait for the Dublin mechanism to be used. I therefore believe that the Progress Party should think through the proposal they have promoted to use the Dublin Convention more. When we don't use it more than we do today, it's because we have a faster treatment than we can achieve using the Dublin Convention. One of the problems with the Dublin Convention is that people stay very long before other countries accept it, so sometimes we find that it is more effective to forget that we have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1305	The rapporteur presented the contents of my proposals in a proper and proper manner, but was well injured to say that they were presented after the killings in Moss. I guess she thought it was the debate that followed the killings in Moss. Today's asylum system, where foreigners who manage to get to our borders receive free food and shelter in asylum recipients, the possibility to work and to move freely in Norwegian society even before their identity and background are properly controlled, offers many opportunities for abuse. The main reason for my proposals to speed up the procedure and improve the control of asylum seekers, which have been raised in the Committee by the Progress Party, is as follows: First of all. More than 1 000 asylum seekers disappear each year from receptions. Several of these are under 18 years of age. We don't know where they are, or how they live, but there's reason to believe that some of these are somewhere in Europe, where they either work black or do crime. Younger asylum seekers are also at risk of coming into contact with the porn and prostitution industry. Second of all. International terrorists can easily come to Norway as asylum seekers, thereby allowing them to operate freely and to plan terrorist acts alone or in cooperation with already existing resting terrorist cells as long as there are no restrictions on asylum seekers’ freedom of movement. Thirdly. Criminals, especially from poor countries in Eastern Europe, can easily approach Norway as an asylum seeker and have the opportunity to gain crime during the period before the application is completed and they have been refused. There has been a major problem in recent years with flows of asylum seekers from countries that have a democratic system, accepted and controlled by the Council of Europe. These individuals, often gypsies from countries such as the Czech Republic, Romania and other democratic states, obviously have a lousy basis for their applications. They constitute a significant problem because the processing of unprofessional applications draws resources that should have been used to deal with serious applications for a residence permit in Norway and therefore affects other non-residents with serious grounds for applying for entry or residence permits. In addition, Norwegian taxpayers cost considerable sums of money, and many of these unprofessional applicants spend time in Norway on criminal activities. These unprofessional applicants will stop coming to Norway if they know that they will be expelled so to speak at the border, and then be turned around the door. That is the background to my proposals, and I am pleased that they are being followed up by the Progress Party. I would like to add that the proposals do not involve long-term care. I assume that the applications can be processed within a week, at the latest, and most of them within a day. Denmark has had such schemes for many years, with good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1320	I would like to open up by promoting the joint proposal from the Progress Party and the Labour Party, i.e. proposal No. 1, which is in the setting. That proposal has simply been promoted because we have seen the consequences of this with private residence in Sweden, as the representative Eye pointed out. And with all the problems that municipalities already have with the settlement of refugees and asylum seekers, I think it is irresponsible to open up a trial project where asylum seekers will enter the existing market privately and find their homes. I think it is simply irresponsible. It shouldn't be too much for us to stop those types of projects when we listen to what both the Council of State and all the others say about the challenges we face in terms of the asylum problem and the refugee problems around the municipalities. Many of the proposals of the Progress Party are in a way ridiculed. Of course, it is possible to bring down the number of asylum seekers who come to Norway if you want to, and wish to do so, but if you have the intention of having the majority of the other parties on the Stortinget to have as many asylum seekers as possible in Norway, then of course the result is that. It accepts the Progress Party, but we are of the opinion that a reduction in the number of asylum seekers entering the country will solve the problems in the refugee field and the integration problem as a whole. We're standing alone there. But we accept that. What we don't accept is that the Council of State and all the others are going around and imagining the Norwegian population that we have control. Because we don't have control! Do not delete! I receive daily letters and e-mails from people working within industries that have this problem. Yesterday I received a comprehensive letter from a bus driver who runs an express bus between Stockholm and Oslo. It is possible that the Council of State now comes and says that it is fully aware of the Government, and that they are working on it, because it is the standard response we get from the Government in terms of these problems. But at least do something about it! There are three departures with express buses from Oslo to Stockholm every day, and five departures during the weekend, with 1-20 asylum seekers on board each time. They go off the bus in Ashim and take a taxi to Trondheim. Then my question to the Council of State is: Do we have control of it, then? No, no, no. And most of them speak Swedish or Danish. But all of the other parts say that we have control. Far from it! Let me do a single calculation: if two asylum seekers per. We understand that the figures are going to be as they are. 85 pst. of those who come to Norway, come without an ID. But anyway, the government and the other parties say we have control. I say, long from there! It's tricking the Norwegian people into trouble. Nor is it right that there will be few refugees to Norway. Norway is the country which, on a European scale, receives most refugees in relation to the population, and we must take that inward. Finally, I would like to make proposal No. 4, by myself on behalf of the Progress Party, and proposal No. 5, on behalf of Per Roar Bredvold and myself – both proposals are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1335	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1338	I just thought I'd give a little explanation of the committee's recommendation – as we are with the Government and the Central Party on – not to agree to the proposal to stop the private settlement. That's why we think it's okay that a trial project is being carried out when it's in progress. Anyone who has been on an asylum reception and has seen how it is there understands that it is not a good idea for a family to live there with children instead — if you are going to establish yourself, and if it is likely that the family in question is going to establish itself in Norway — to get out of the asylum reception and live locally, in order to get into the most ordinary life. What is kind of a misunderstanding -- or I don't know what -- is that this is already happening today. It's just that it's not financially encouraged. It's like living on an asylum reception is an offer you get. There's nothing to do on death and life. This project will mainly only apply to families and couples, which was clearly stated in the letter we received from the Council of State. This will apply to people who are most likely to settle in Norway and who have pending treatment applications. This will facilitate integration as soon as possible. It will be more acceptable for municipalities to say yes to exactly that refugee family if they do not have to live the family after they arrive. In addition, I believe that comparison with Sweden is not relevant. In Sweden, they have a different policy than what we feel this pilot project is about. They have a policy that is much more about living people on a permanent basis, even locally, when they are allowed to stay. It leads to a very accumulation in the big cities and creates ghettos. By imposing conditions on those contracts – which is one of the assumptions underlying the majority of the Committee – i.e.: put in assumptions about decent living conditions, real standard of apartments and not crooked accumulations of 13 people at a one-room apartment we'll make sure that this is going to be good. It'll be exciting to see how the project goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1347	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that case No. Case No. 4 and Case No. 5 is treated together. [[See page 2349]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1376	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1383	Document No 8:58 by Mr Karl-Anton Swensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to the Council of the European Union and to the European Parliament, to the European Parliament, to the Council and to the European Parliament, to the European Parliament, to the Council and to the European Parliament. All parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, reject the proposals. The same majority point to the fact that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is currently examining proposals for new national law and will await this matter before considering the proposals. This is probably going to happen in the next big session. However, the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, will already reject the proposal to impose a vow of allegiance to the Constitution in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship. The Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party believe that respect for human rights and existing laws is a matter of course for everyone who lives here in the country. But traditions and social norms are different, and in a multicultural society we need and want personal freedom and diversity. It's a strength for all of us. Because there are just demands from power structures for unification and allegiance to traditions that continue unacceptable practices such as forced marriage and circumcision, and that change and improvement are stopped. The working party believes that it is unacceptable, meaningless and dangerous to demand allegiance to traditions and norms. If we were to have such principles, women would never have the right to vote, children born outside marriage would not have the right to inherit, and homosexuals would be punishable. It is amazing that the government parties and the Central Party do not already reject such a requirement to pledge allegiance to become a Norwegian national. The minority, the People's Party, supports four proposals in the vote. I expect the representatives of the Progress Party to present their proposals. As regards Document No: 8:60, there is a proposal from the big business representatives Jan Arild Ellingsen and Per Sandberg that the imams should not fall under the rule of special competence for residence and work permits. The majority, all except the Advance Party, reject the proposal. The majority point to Norway as a multicultural society, where diversity, freedom of choice and mutual respect are important to everyone living here. But if we are to succeed, it is essential that we have a dialogue with, among other things: the leaders of the many religious and life-view societies we have gradually gained here in the country. Religious leaders in many cases have a strong influence on moral and ethical issues among members of the congregation. We have not long since both seen and heard religious leaders make statements on TV that testify to the lack of Norwegian knowledge and little or no knowledge of Norwegian culture and social conditions, statements that directly counter integration. Therefore, the Committee considers it necessary to adopt measures to prevent such outlays. An overall committee believes that to achieve the goal of a successful multicultural society, it is important that people with central roles and religious leaders in the religious communities also have elementary Norwegian knowledge and have some basic knowledge of Norwegian society. The Committee supports the fact that religious leaders in religious communities are to undergo courses in Norwegian and social knowledge as conditions for residence permits under the Foreign Affairs Act. An overall committee also believes that penalties should be imposed for such a requirement. Financial support should not be given to religious communities where leaders participate in or encourage criminal acts. A religious community such as forefects of sexual mutilation or forcible marriages may be refused public support. Both sexual mutilation and coercion are prohibited by law in Norway. The Committee asks the Government to implement legislative changes or changes in the practice where necessary to refuse the payment of aid. The minority, the Progress Party, has promoted a two-point proposal that I expect them to make up for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1411	Again, two things are being discussed where the intentions are being respected by the Government's ongoing work. Work is under way on new citizenship laws. Since the review of the law will cover all the issues raised by the Coastal Party, there is no reason for the Right to get the treatment in advance. We therefore do not wish to accept Document No. 8:58. Both the Labour Party and the Progress Party wish to assess the possibility of sanctions if persons with dual citizenship commit criminal offences after becoming Norwegian nationals. This is apparent from one of the comments in the case. The centre party's Odd Roger Enoksen hung fast on the debate on citizenship. In connection with the killings in Moss, he stated, as he was familiar with the press, that he considered proposing that the Nordics with a migrant background who committed criminal offences should be deprived of citizenship and sent out of the country. The Enox would be merciless. But the right one should be right. The Enoch has later moderated, and it must be respected. Some aspects are translated into these proposals on citizenship. Firstly, it is unacceptable and violations of human rights if the amendment of Norwegian rules results in people becoming stateless. Then, as you know, the Government considers all matters relating to citizenship. The size should be given ample opportunity to deal with the matter, but then after a thorough review where the consequences are made known in advance. Nor will the right agree with the proposal made by Mr Ellingsen and Mr Sandberg in Document No. 8:60 to exempt imams from the specialty residence and work permit rule. The Government’s Action Plan for Re-action against Forced Marriage addresses both claims and penalties against leaders of religious communities. In order to achieve good integration of immigrants, a wide range of instruments need to be put in place. It is important to master Norwegian — we have heard that before today — and it is important to have a good knowledge of Norwegian laws, social conditions and culture. I have noticed with concern that some religious leaders have made statements that show that they do not have sufficient insight into Norwegian society. Some of the statements can also counteract the integration of immigrants into Norwegian society. I am therefore pleased that the Government will look at the demands for Norwegian knowledge and social knowledge to be made to religious leaders who are applying for a residence permit. However, the majority, including the Right, do not want to exempt imams from the rule of specialist residence and work permits. We in the Right are also pleased that a unanimous committee says that no financial support should be given to religious communities where the leader is involved or encourages criminal acts. Right will stress the importance of integration policy and that we all share a shared responsibility for its success. When people are settled in new culture and foreign countries, it is our duty to facilitate conditions as well as possible. It includes both rights and obligations. And that makes it necessary for those to be settled to show their willingness to adapt to the conditions in their new country. I have said that before today: we live today in a multicultural society. That's the way it is, and it's still going to be. Prerequisites for a good multicultural society are knowledge understanding, respect and good dialogue. It is therefore important that religious leaders and other people with central roles have elementary Norwegian knowledge and some basic knowledge of Norwegian society. Finally, I would just like to point out that political markings that are only suitable for forming and strengthening xenophobic attitudes as well as being conflict-making should be ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1439	What are the implications of these proposals that increase xenophobia and create negative attitudes? It is, like, the only argument that exists in relation to some proposals. I'm not going to say that much about the proposal on citizenship, but rather concentrate on the proposal that concerns the imams. So it got into the cold water of the debate we got after the tragic killing in Sweden. Then we saw that there were some attitudes expressed by some imams or religious leaders who at least I didn't think should be in place in Norway. That is why we made some proposals. But if the others do not think that these attitudes are so crazy that they do not constitute a danger to integration in Norway, then of course those proposals are being voted against. The only intention of the Progress Party is to stop that kind of thinking and attitude, and to spread in the Norwegian community. In fact, we in the Progress Party believe that this is a good attitude towards improving integration in Norway. So the other parties don't believe that. However, I had to record that at the time the Council of State caught up with the signals that these statements were the same as giving Norwegian girls a whore's stamp, after a look-up that time. I also registered that the then Minister for Children and Family Karita Bekkemelm Orheim in his time wanted to take action against the imams. The party of progress is promoting two proposals completely without any thought of creating any foreign fear or putting anyone in the booth, as Kari Lise Holmberg tries to suggest. Of course, I'm disappointed when we get that kind of against us in things like this. The fact is that the imams come to Norway on special authorization. They have education from the Koran schools – I want to say that there are also Taliban schools. They come to Norway on special permits, are allowed to practice as imams or religious leaders for three years, and end to open up new imams from the same Koran schools to come to Norway to practice. Those who have been here for three years and have been given permanent residence after three years, end, and several of them go to primary school. Then I ask myself, doesn't it give any signals to the rest of the Storting that we have to try to do something? If it is the case that some of the imams that stood out earlier this winter still stand firm in their positions, and they start in the Norwegian primary school and spread the same positions there, is there no one in the Norwegian Grand Prix, except the Advance Party, who is meant to be – at least in mind – when we have such a development? I see that even here, the other parties are moving a little bit in relation to demanding knowledge of Norwegian language and some knowledge of Norwegian society. Then this development might last up to ten years before we saw the consequences of not taking any action today, and along the way, when all this time is allowed to go, these attitudes will more and more get a party in Norwegian society when the kids who have arrived are to be integrated here. It's just to see what's happening in the Drama, where the kids, in fact, as it said in the essay, are interned in Qur'an schools, which are almost closed. It's the same religious leaders and imams who teach here. That's a result of not doing anything. But when we try to promote such a debate, we are again faced with – and this time from the Right – that we are doing it to create fear of alienation and to be selective and generalized. I'm sorry. But we are now trying again, and at least we are promoting the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1459	The representative Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1462	For many years I have sometimes listened with apprehension to the speeches that the Progress Party has made, and to what kind of attitudes they have stood for. In the same way, I have been equally startled when some priests in the Norwegian Church have expressed their views on matters. Should I then start with a proposal and say that these positions should be banned and that I must send these priests and the Party of Advancement to the course? No, no, no. This proposal to provide a mandatory offer of rights and obligations to a course on language and social knowledge for imams does not concern their being critical of any aspect of the Norwegian community. That's their full right. It is not about freedom to believe what you want, but it is about religious leaders having great influence and needing knowledge, so that they know when their own religious traditions violate Norwegian law and cannot say: we did not know that we gave advice that was contrary to Norwegian law or to human rights. That's what this is about. And I think most of them will want a key to Norwegian society and will be able to understand the everyday lives of the young people they're going to guide. That's what this is all about. I have no faith that imams are going to be converted to the Norwegian gender equality view and view of women because if they go on such a course. But if any of them were to get some new thoughts, I think that's okay. So this isn't about a research course or an attitude course, but it's about a certainty, to make sure you know. This, I think, is an important principle. So to the second suggestion, which is almost worse. It's about allegiance, not just the Constitution, but the traditions and norms of a society. I am a little surprised that the government parties cannot immediately say that you should not swear allegiance to the Constitution. I have many wishes to change the Constitution. It has most of the parties here. It is then a legitimate right to want to change both the Constitution and other laws, and we should be able to do so in a public, open debate. These are the principles of democracy and the rule of law. But if we were to swear allegiance to this, swear allegiance to traditions and norms, we would still live in the Middle Ages. It would be like Signe Eye says, that women would never get a vote. We would live in a family structure that is similar to the one we have just had a long debate on before today, which causes people violence, threats and problems. So it's breaking tradition that we're moving on. It must be allowed to do so, and it must also be that we believe that different traditions and different standards should be able to live side by side in respect. There are a lot of people who choose to live a completely different life than I do. It bothers me very little if their life does not affect mine in a negative way, or if I see that through their way of life they do not cause other damage or problems. And that's what it has to be. To be honest, I do not understand how one has thought that such a proposal should be practised. For how could this be followed? Is it when you write a reading article in the paper that you disagree with the Norwegian way of being – how now it had to be, because we're awfully different all of us? I am very concerned that proposals are being made that are as incredibly little thoughtful as this. There is an opinion and attitude correction that is so total that I did not think it was possible for anyone in the Norwegian store to move in on such thoughts. But I could perhaps ask for a little explanation from the government parties as to why they can't already say that they don't want those who are going to get a citizenship to swear allegiance to the Constitution. It's a little strange in that case that someone has to do it in order to become a Norwegian citizen, while the rest of us shouldn't. I believe that this matter concerns the Norwegian law that applies to everyone. We're going to respect the laws that are in this country, and follow them, but it's our democratic right to disagree and to fight to change them, if that's what our attitude is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1477	The proposers in Document No. 8:60 actually opens an open door with its proposal No. 1, on a minimum requirement in Norwegian and social understanding for imams to practise in Norway. In the government's action against forced marriage, this is one of the measures, in fact no. 22 and we don't need to adopt it for the second time. I therefore urge the Group of the Party of European Socialists, at least, to make this very proposal for a transmission proposal. I would like to make it clear that the representative Sandberg is right. It is not about fear of the future in this case. This is a proposal that the Government will implement, almost as proposed by the Progress Party. So we mean that those who are going to be teachers of children in Norway, which imamane actually is, have to know Norwegian language and society. At least that's a big advantage, and we'll do that. The Christian People's Party and a plurality are also concerned that trust societies in which the leader participates or encourages criminal acts, such as: Gender mutilation, financial support shall be lost. Contrary to the proposers, we believe that it would be more aggravating and pronouncing than that the testimonies and certificates must be obtained before the religious leader gets to Norway. So the Christian People's Party is not united in point No. 2 in the proposal from the Progress Party, but will contribute to the need for future religious leaders to learn Norwegian and have a minimum understanding of Norwegian society. When it comes to threats and citizenship, I would like to stress that the questions raised by the proposers in Document No. 8:58, will be reviewed in connection with a new law on citizenship coming to the Stortinge in the next major session. Then we can see the whole matter in context, and the Christian People's Party therefore postpones the debate until the government work takes place. We don't come up with sub-phrases in this context, but that doesn't mean we expect it to be requested by SV to be part of the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1490	The Coastal Party is a value-conservative centre party that will work to ensure that Norwegian society is protected by the individual citizen. This will include, inter alia: say that all residents of our country shall be protected from abuse by other individuals, families, organisations, businesses and public bodies. Such protection shall be provided by Norwegian legislation and legal protection. In order to create a safe society, the law must be designed to prevent conflicts and abuses. A prerequisite for conflict prevention is that democratically adopted laws and regulations are followed, and that most people have insight into Norwegian social conditions. Without a common understanding of what is law and how things work, misunderstandings and conflicts can easily arise. Under these conditions, it will also be possible to misinform what it means to live in Norway. Norway is currently one of the countries in Europe with the highest migration rates in relation to the population. The immigrants come from all over the world and have very different backgrounds. Some just come for a short period of time to then travel on to other countries. Others are allowed permanent residence on different bases. Some people want to keep their foreign citizenship, for example: to indicate their country of birth. Others apply for Norwegian citizenship, with the additional rights involved. In the view of the Coastal Party, the application should also mean that immigrants want to be integrated into Norwegian society and have their primary loyalty to it. Immigrants do not have to throw waste on their own identity to be integrated into Norwegian society, but they should master the Norwegian language and have basic knowledge of our laws and social conditions. In addition, immigrants who want Norwegian citizenship should declare their loyalty to the Norwegian Basic Law, which is a superstructure throughout the Norwegian legislation. Some wordings and paragraphs of the Basic Law may seem old-fashioned and not adapted to the current situation. I'll be the first to agree with that. But the point is first and foremost that one declares loyalty to the document that created the basis for the construction of the Norwegian rule of law and Norwegian democracy. It was this document that created the premise for the low level of conflict in our society. Of course, you can draw this in every possible direction, but that's the intention behind the proposal. I have registered that the government is working with the NOU 2000:32 and the issue of Norwegian knowledge. I think these are important things, which we look forward to getting to treatment in the Storting in the next big session. Against this background, the Coastal Party will support the proposals of the Progress Party in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1503	Just a brief comment on the first matter. Of course, it may be difficult for some parties who voted against removing the creed for approx. 40 years ago, when it was taken out of Norwegian law, the one that all new citizens had to leave, in a way to signal out. At least I believe that we in the Right, which at the time voted against, and as far as I remember, also parts of the Christian People's Party voted against removing it, have come to the realization that it is not the most relevant measure to introduce. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that there might have been a little bit more celebration around becoming a Norwegian citizen than it is today. We'll have to assess this in more detail in the treatment we're going to have in the future. Getting a letter in the post saying that a become a Norwegian citizen may not be what marks the distinction, as we should perhaps do, that one has actually gone from one situation to another. So to the question of imams. In the light of the proposed document, we have reviewed the actual requirements. The draft document presented the situation as if it were making lower demands than what is actually being made. A few years ago, the specialist provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act were liberalised, so that graduates and others, i.e. at secondary school level, were approved. It was not done for imams and cooks. It was a deliberate choice of Minister of Justice Dørum at the time, just linked to this kind of question. This means that higher education is required, i.e. more than the so-called Qur'an schools, in order to obtain a work permit as a specialist, if one is to practice as an imam in Norway today. That doesn't mean that there can't be some imam who doesn't have a higher education, because Islam is a layman's movement similar to much of the Norwegian Christian community, where there will be preachers, in Norwegian sense, who don't have such education. But they have not received a work permit as imams to enter Norway. In any case, in recent years it has been inculcated that they should not have it. I agree with the great majority of people who say that religious leaders have a very important role to play in these societies. There is one reason why the Government wants to have a dialogue conference in August with all the religious communities associated with immigrants, precisely on issues of integration, women's issues and conflicts that arise, because it is important that the authoritarians in the immigrant communities can play a team and understand what conflicts can arise internally in an immigrant family. This is one of the reasons why we look at how we can ensure that one does not live entirely on the side of Norwegian society when one comes as a religious leader and gets a moral authority. But at the same time, it is important that even if someone preachs intolerance, we should not respond with intolerance. That's one of the values that we have in our society. That is why we should also bear high the tab that says that what we have to do in terms of restrictions, guidelines and changes we have to do to religious leaders who come to Norway to practice is to be in line with what we demand other countries to do to, for example. Christian misioners and others who come to their land. We are a country that has held that part of human rights high. We have a Christian People's Party-led government, which also holds high the fact that we want religious freedom to be high also in other societies, and we must also try to do that in relation to our own handling of these matters. But as authoritarians, the most important advisers for the family. This applies to the imams, but it also applies to the minds. It is also an essential point in this context that it is not only for the religious leaders, but also for those who actually run the store – to call it that – the congregation, there must be stronger demands. It's those who are responsible for everything that's related to the marriage authority and stuff like that. Therefore, there is a need to follow up more closely. We see examples from statesmen around that practices in some mosques have been wrong, as has been pointed out. Among other things, we have examples of the fact that venom has been listed on marriage papers. We may need some clearer financial sanctions to ensure that there is cleanliness and a great deal of knowledge of Norwegian law in this area. But there's also a little bit of a prosaic thing that you can sense that things actually get wrong. There are enough people in this country who think they are married, but who are not engaged by wedding authorities according to Norwegian rules. There's a need to clean up. It's been working for a long time. The Minister of Church and Culture follows up a working group that has worked on this. Then we're going to work on how we're both going to get a dialogue and make demands that you can't live outside the Norwegian community when you're going to practice here as a religious leader. Some knowledge is needed, so that perhaps the worst outbursts of prejudices can also be eliminated among religious leaders in the immigrant communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1521	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1524	The great deal of Document No. The 8 proposals discussed in today's meeting show that there is a great deal of commitment from politicians at the Stortinget in relation to integration issues. It's positive from one side. On the other hand, there may be grounds for reflection that this exposure may seem relatively cyclical and triggered by individual issues that capture the attention of opinion. It makes you feel that there's more fever that determines the curve of the active than there is clear thinking. I think the two documents are Nos. The eight proposals that we are now discussing are quite clear examples of that. In the first case we are dealing with, it is stated in proposal No. 3 that the Stortinget asks the Government ‘introduce requirements for satisfactory knowledge in Norwegian in writing and orally as conditions for obtaining Norwegian citizenship’. The key to that proposal is simply that there is no reference to what is considered to be ‘adequate’ knowledge in Norwegian in writing and orally. We've seen that up to 40 pst. by Norwegian teachers in Norwegian. This must mean that they do not control Norwegian in writing and orally satisfactory. But no one has dreamed of denying them citizenship or denying them citizenship for that reason, hopefully. If you set the requirements for satisfactory knowledge in Norwegian in writing and orally enough, I am afraid that even this assembly could be decimated to a not insignificant extent. I think this proposal bears witness to headlessness. With regard to the proposal to make special legislation for imams, as the only group in charge of religious communities, there should probably be a small bell already at the beginning. It may hardly be in accordance with the principle of freedom of religion that special laws should be introduced for individual religious communities and leaders of individual religious communities, who do not apply to leaders of other religious communities. It's relatively elementary. Let me also say that it is fundamentally important to maintain that freedom of expression, as established by the Constitution, applies to all citizens of this country, even if they should be so unfortunate as to be leaders of a religious community. This is not an opinion in this country – fortunately. I think it is boring to start to introduce opinions and restrictions on what is allowed to be expressed publicly if you belong to a particular category of citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1535	To the representative of Inge Wohnning: Here you will again find that this should be cyclical. Now, in the debate today, if the representative has joined us, we have tried to give the best possible signal that this debate has gone over three to four months. The settings for all these cases point to the failure of the integration policy in Norway, so all these issues are in a way a settlement with the policies that have been pursued. I hope the representative tries to bring it. This is not about fever, it's about clear thinking from some people to try to correct a shock-driven integration policy. What had to be satisfactory for the representative's salary, I don't care, to put it straight out. For me, it's important that we make some demands. I actually thought it was such that for those who applied for Norwegian citizenship, it had to be an honor, and they had to be proud to be allowed to give a vow of allegiance to it. At least I would have been. In the case of imams, I understand that the representative has not seen the connection at all. What the representative says here is that the imams are standing up and saying that Norwegian girls are whores, that ethnic Northmen are under-measurers, and that Norwegian society is in a way to the detriment of some cultures and religions. The representative is kind of afraid that we are going to introduce a sentence, that they are not going to be allowed to say that. The point is that the imams aren't just religious leaders, they're leaders, they're teachers, they're priests, they catch up with the whole community, they lead a people in all sorts of ways. And then, at least for me, it's essential that they don't stand up and lead people into a development or create attitudes that are totally destructive to our success in integration policy, and that in a way are directly contributing to the creation of major conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1544	After the insertion of the representative's salary, I feel the need to clarify some things. He must have misunderstood part of the proposals in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The purpose of the proposals in question is as follows: 4 is to improve integration into Norwegian society, and we do so with language skills, social skills, common loyalty to the intentions of the Constitution and the legal system. And then I have to ask: why should it be a problem to declare loyalty to the country of which you are applying for citizenship? I can't in any way see that you can represent it as a problem. He further argued that it was cyclical that this proposal had come. No, it's just to improve integration into Norwegian society. And it does show that there is a very relevant issue that has been raised here in connection with the NOU on Norwegian knowledge and the treatment that is taking place, in the Government, a matter that is being presented in the next major session. Then the councils realized that it was over 40 years since it was lifted with a vow of allegiance. It was introduced in 1888, and in 1976 it was abolished. It's only been 26 years. Right, Anders Lange's party and Christian People's Party opposed lifting it. I quote from NOU 2000:32: ‘... that the final award of Norwegian citizenship should take place through a simple, but also to some extent solemn, action, thus stressing that the new citizenship confers not only rights but also responsibilities.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1556	First, with regard to the proposal for imams, it is quite remarkable that you choose first of all one direction of faith and say that this should apply especially to it. I would like to remind you that on many occasions very hairy things have been said from other types of church leaders as well. I wonder what the Progress Party intends to do with, among other things. church societies as it now turns out have hidden and covered over both incest, rape and coercion. What do we do with that? It's actually a significant problem that we should address. So in many such dense societies, there is pressure and coercion, and that's a problem. And that's because faith is so positive and, in a way, it can also be used so incredibly strongly towards those who are going to be part of a community. I agree that it requires an incredible amount of someone to lead. But it is therefore wrong to say that we should ban statements, statements and attitudes. It's simply impossible, it's wrong, and it's also dangerous, because it means opinion terror. So to this creed. Now there's a little bit of a different explanation of what this is going to be. It must be a statement of loyalty, etc. But it is equally true in this proposal that it is also about traditions and norms. I'm becoming an adult human being. I grew up in the 1950s, with substantially different traditions and norms than most people live after today. In some areas, it appears to someone as rose-red. For some of the others who lived in the traditions and norms of those societies, it was hard work – especially for those who were then called ‘unreal children’. It was a norm, and it was accepted to plague and rule with them. A hundred years ago, it was fully accepted. And it was considered right that women should not have voting rights. In some of the families that we've discussed before today, where it's about coercion and sexual mutilation, these are traditions that they think are good for the family, for the morals, for the construction of the whole society. I disagree deeply – and I'm going to fight it as long as I live. But these are the same arguments that some people are now trying to put on the Norwegian community, that we're going to start acting the same way. You must be so kind to open your eyes and see what kind of proposal this is!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1567	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come. However, the President will propose that we continue this meeting until the matter is dealt with. 4 and 5 have been completed – and is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1570	Instead, I did not specifically comment on the proposal for a vow of allegiance to the Constitution, because it is a proposal of a slightly different nature than the other proposals that have been discussed in today's meeting. I agree with the government fraction, which says in the setting that it gives you the opportunity to get back to it in a further context. Personally, I don't think that's relevant, because I see a not insignificant difference between introducing as a new practice that has been out of use over a number of times, and possibly being a follower of maintaining an old practice in this area. But that's something that can be discussed sensibly. On the other hand, the proposal for self-regulation in relation to the category imams cannot, at my discretion, be debated sensibly. And the way the representative Sandberg defends it, makes it more and more clear that it's a pretty impossible exercise. Of course, you can discuss the use of images when I said that sometimes you can get the impression that there is a feverish level of activity, so I'm going to admit to the representative Sandberg that there are some people who have a fever permanently and who are expanding a significant activity in this area. Then it's not cyclical, I agree with Sandberg. But the idea behind the proposal to introduce self-regulation for imams because one or two people have expressed something in the public space in which one disagrees with the heart is in itself quite headless according to my concepts. There are many native Northmen, people who belong to the indigenous population, who express quite strong opinions in the public space – yes, I have so many men registered that the representative Sandberg also does so from time to time. And that's what we're going to wear over and deal with in this way that we're going to protest, not that we're going to call on the law to stop the mouth of the Sandberg representative. But that's actually what you argue a long way to go, that you think some views and opinions about and assessments of the Norwegian community are too unacceptable to claim if you're imam. On the other hand, if you are a native of the North, you have every opportunity to criticise all social conditions in this country. We all have every opportunity to criticize the Norwegian society, and we do it hopefully when we think that there are social conditions that it is worth criticising. Then we can't deny others the same right that we insist on being able to use ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1581	In an attempt to shorten this debate, I chose, because we come back to these questions at a later stage, to refrain from using my speaking time. For the sake of order – since the debate has now gone as he has – I need to say very briefly what the Central Party stands for. First to Document No. 8:58. It turns out that, for our part, we are awaiting the work of the Government when it comes to citizenship. In view of the debate that has taken place in the last few days, I believe it is clearly clear from our point of view that what concerns the proposal to take citizenship from people as a criminal reaction and to make them stateless is not assessed in the Central Party. When it comes to crime, we're going to follow in another way. I am surprised that this proposal will be put forward with the basics of strengthening the integration of Norwegian society. In fact, I believe that both on the prophylactic level and when it applies to the law otherwise, there must be entirely different measures to create seremonies and demand promises to the Constitution and traditions. So to Document No. 8:60: Something crucial has come out of the committee's handling in that area, I think. It's that there's actually a plurality that asks the Government to evaluate regulatory changes that make it possible to demand elementary knowledge of Norwegian languages, social conditions and culture, as well as religious leaders, and as a condition for the trust societies to receive public support. It has also been asked that the Government consider refusing financial support for threat societies where the leaders participate or encourage criminal offences. It thinks the Center Party is a better way to go than to deny people freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1592	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and now gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1595	To the representative Inge Wohnning: I see that he has not yet understood the context. I ask him just to read the comments of the Progress Party, where it is suggested that the Islamic Women's Group Norway recommends this kind of progress in order to ensure the quality of the imams in Norway. But if Inge Wohnung is not concerned that we should have the quality of the imams, the religious leaders, who are both advisers, mercenaries, teachers and priests, then get it for Inge Wohnning's account. To the representative Karin Andersen: It seems that the representative lives in his own world, because it is not the tradition that leads to people being harassed and persecuted that we should continue. That's not tradition today. Likewise, if rape, coercion and incest are the tradition of the Norwegian Church, of course, we have to do something about it. But then we have to get it proven. Then we have to get the priests to stand up and say that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1604	Mr Andersen has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1608	I have not said that it is a tradition in the Church to operate incest and rape. We know that it has happened. There's written books about it, there's been research on it, and there's written dissertations about it. The problem is that very strong coercion and loyalty can exist within dense church communities, and that it calls for extra caution. The problem with the Sandberg proposal is that, after that, you have to swear allegiance to traditions and norms, so you have to swear allegiance to everything you stop and freeze a social development. Some of what we think are good traditions today, you thought you were hair-removing a hundred years ago. It could also be like this in the future. I know what I think is good and right today, and I can argue for it. But in 50 years’ time, you may have a different view of things, and so may you. I'm not sure I have any moral concerns about it. So who is going to decide which traditions are good? And who will determine which standards are good and to which allegiance must be sworn?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1615	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1618	I thought I had managed to make understandable the point that we cannot have a legislative tradition in this country that creates special rules that apply to one religion and that do not apply to other religions, that apply to one category of councillors, and that do not apply to any other councillor. I thought that was so far the element that it was possible to perceive it. It is at least an integral part of any form of religious freedom that religions and religious communities must be treated in the same way. You can't stick to one law that applies to one religion and that doesn't apply to the other. If the representative Sandberg is concerned with quality assurance of all that is going on in religious communities, he will have to take on the job of quality assurance for all religious communities. In fact, for a hundred years in this country, we have had leaders of religious communities who have not been able to speak Norwegian in a divisive way. We have a German congregation, we have an American community, and no one has come up with the idea of requiring them to document Norwegian knowledge to stay in Norway, and to serve in a congregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18.ana.ud916e1625	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is well over. [[See page 2350]] The meeting is scheduled for 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
