ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e30	The representatives of Kjell Engebretsen, Siri Hall Arnøy, Eirin Fallet, May Britt Vihovde and Torny Pedersen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative Jan Sahl from 26 February onwards and until further notice from the Central Party on sick leave for the representative Inger S. Enger from 26 February onwards and until further notice from the Socialist Left Group on welfare leave for the representative May Hansen from 26 February to 28 February from the Progress Party Group on leave for the representative André Kampekstad from 27 and 28 February to attend the meeting of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Ukraine These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the district of Akershus, Harald Espelund, is prevented from meeting under the leave of the representative André Kukkestad on 27 and 28 February due to foreign residence. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Ib Thomsen For the Nordic countries: Kari Økland For Uppland County: Hans Seierstad For Eastfold County: Linn Laupsa – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Hans Seierstad is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget at the time he meets the representative of Inger S. Enger. – It is also considered to be adopted. Kari Økland, Hans Seierstad and Linn Laupsa are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e109	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e114	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e119	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e127	The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e130	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I have the honour to propose to the Government to implement measures to ensure free competition in the market for municipal occupational pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e136	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e139	On behalf of Thore A. Nistad and myself, I have the honour and pleasure to make proposals for reduced toll rates on highway 5, the Spring Road, between Springland and Sogndal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e144	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e156	The terrorist attacks of 11 September last year – where more than 3,000 innocent people from nearly 85 different nations were taken away – show with all intent that the threat of international terrorism is most real and that no one can feel safe. We are all vulnerable, and it is a cross of thought that the most cruel actions against the most modern and technologically advanced societies can be planned and controlled from the mountain caves in one of the world's poorest countries. The whole of the international community is united in the struggle to prevent such untruths from happening again. This is why both the UN, NATO, the OSCE, the EU and a wide range of other global and regional organisations have been actively engaged in the fight against those who will replace tolerance, freedom and diversity with hatred, fear and unity. The fight against international terrorism was the first major foreign policy challenge for the new government. We have continued the same fixed line against the terrorists and their supporters as the previous government. This marks the broad Norwegian consensus. We have put a decisive emphasis on international cooperation and concrete Norwegian contributions, such as legislation to halt terrorist money flows, and in the form of military contributions and assistance to the civilian population in Afghanistan. I understand that the choices for many were difficult. These are dilemmas. Once we have succeeded so far, this is because we – at home too – have been able to make difficult decisions and stand by them. We didn't let the dilemmas make us paralysed. If we had hesitated, the terrorist threat to our societies would have been far greater than today. Al-Qaeda would have its terrorist network intact, and the Taliban regime continued its repression and support for the terrorists. Terrorists do not respect international rules of play. They do not want dialogue and compromise. In Afghanistan, al-Qaeda had control of a territory. Here young people from all over the world came to be taught. From there they were sent out to a number of countries to operate as independent cells, cells that still exist. Some claimed that military power could not succeed against terrorism, because terrorism is a diffuse enemy. But it was just that al-Qaeda got free play and control over a territory in Afghanistan, which made it possible to plan, prepare and carry out terrorist actions and establish an effective network of cells. Therefore, they had to be excluded from this territory. The use of military power was therefore absolutely necessary, although this was the instrument we least wanted to use – even because civilians would be affected. However, terrorism cannot be remedied by military power alone. Political, diplomatic, economic and judicial instruments are at least equally important. International efforts in these areas are also very extensive. The fight against international terrorism will be long-lasting and demanding. We will only succeed if we keep a clear focus and stand together across borders, religious and ethnicity. We must fight on the basis of the values on which our societies are built and on which we must defend. We must fight for democracy, respect for human dignity and human rights to apply to all. We must focus our search on the injustice and hopelessness that terrorists use ruthlessly. Nor should we forget that the major challenges facing the world before 11 September are still with us – poverty, environmental degradation, HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases, discrimination, repression and human rights violations. Common to all these challenges is that they are cross-border and can only be solved through international cooperation. The period after 11 September has taught us that the threats to peace, freedom and human rights are global, and that as nations, we stand far stronger – and serve our national interests better – when we work together than when we choose to stand alone. Isolationism and solitude are not the way to go into a modern, closely interlocked and interconnected world society. This applies to both large and small countries. Today, our security and prosperity are more ensured by our ability to influence others than by our ability to prevent others from affecting us. That's why the Cooperation Government in the Sem statement says: ‘As more and more problems require global solutions, the UN and multilateral institutions need to be equipped to deal with increasing responsibilities. The co-operation government will work towards Norway playing an important role in strengthening international cooperation and further developing international law as an obligatory network for all nations.’» The Sem declaration is also clear on the anchoring of Norway: ‘The U.N. and the Atlantic Community are seen as important anchoring points for their foreign policy’.» The acts of terror on 11 September shook American society in its foundations. They represent the greatest loss of American life in a single incident since the American Civil War and are the most serious attack on the United States since Pearl Harbor. I think we are right not to underestimate the significance and consequences of September 11 for the American people and the political leaders of the United States. Timely, with the support of others, the United States built an international coalition. Ever since the military operations began at the beginning of October last year, the international coalition has been under constant pressure, but it has held together. It is now essential to build on this experience and maintain coherence in the further fight against international terrorism. American foreign policy has always been designed at the intersection of two different basic attitudes: the introspective and isolationist and the more extroverted and multilateralist. We are also witnessing today a drag fight about the emphasising of these. However, the preservation of national interests in today’s world cannot be done without close interaction with others. No country — even the strongest — can safeguard its national interests without cooperating with others. The great military superiority of the United States and the successful military operations in Afghanistan have led to calls on some teams on the American side to take less account of European and other countries and the need to keep the broad international coalition united – and to initiate military action against Iraq. This is a policy I want to warn against. It will undermine cohesion in the broad international coalition and weaken the possibilities of overcoming terrorism in the longer term. But there is no doubt that Saddam Hussein is a despot, who has used both weapons of mass destruction against his own population and has gone into military attacks against neighboring countries. However, there is only a broad and sustained international pressure on the regime in Baghdad that can best change the current course. Iraq must meet the requirements of the UN resolutions. Some believe that the gap between foreign policy in Europe and the United States is on the increase and that Norway now needs to choose its side as soon as possible. I want to reserve myself against trying to simplify something that is basically a fundamental debate on how close allies must also have different opinions. The «Atlantic division» has been a fixed theme – albeit with varying strengths – for many years. The distance across the Atlantic is not necessarily greater today than it was during the Vietnam War or during the nuclear policy conflict in the 1980s. Both the United States and European countries are bound together in a community of values based on democracy and human rights. Our societies are constantly very similar. Our foreign policy objectives are also very similar, although we may have different perceptions of which instruments are the best to achieve these objectives. Therefore, the Sem Declaration speaks of the ‘Atlantic Community’. But anyway, I think the best thing we and others – on both sides of the Atlantic – can do is use our energy and influence to bring the United States and Europe together towards common goals. Should this happen, both sides must listen and, if necessary, adjust the course. Not least, it is important in NATO, where together we need to find out how the Alliance will meet the new security challenges while at the same time meeting the collective defence obligations. NATO's expansion is firm. There is a broad consensus in the Alliance to invite new member countries to the Prague Summit in November. How many, and who will be, will depend on the efforts of the candidate countries themselves and on an overall political assessment. From the Norwegian side, we want a broad extension, including the Baltic countries. In today's Europe, one of the main European policy challenges remains to build solidarity and cooperation across old political and economic divides. The OSCE aims to prevent conflicts and build democratic institutions — in the Balkans as well as in the Caucasus and Central Asia. In view of the strong focus on Afghanistan, it is important not to forget the region geographically located between Afghanistan and Russia – Central Asia. The OSCE has kept human rights and democracy in focus in this region, but recent attention has focused more on issues related to the proliferation of weapons, organised crime and trafficking in human beings — all important elements in the fight against international terrorism. The government is in the process of assessing how we can make our work in Central Asia more targeted and effective — including making use of Norwegian expertise in areas such as energy, environment and support for the building of democratic institutions — and in this context we are committed to working closely with the OSCE. Europe is one half of our Atlantic community. Although Norway has chosen to stand outside the EU, of course we need to address important developments in Europe. The EU is now being expanded to include up to 12 new Member States, while deepening and expanding close cooperation to emerging and important areas. A visible expression of this is the introduction of a single European currency from 1 January of this year. The introduction of the euro was far more successful than the skeptics feared, and is a sign of unity and cohesion in the EU of historical proportions. The strong dynamism of European cooperation requires sustained vigilance and efforts to safeguard Norwegian interests. The co-operation administration is fully open to the fact that it consists of parties with different views on Norway’s relationship and relationship with the EU, but is united in the will to pursue an active European policy through the EEA Agreement and other cooperation agreements with the EU – such as the Schengen Agreement, the link with the ESDP and Europol. The EEA Agreement has been a good agreement for Norway in the areas it intends to cover. Nor do we hide the fact that it does not fully respect such an important sector as fish exports, nor does it reflect the significant expansion of EU cooperation in the last ten years. Today, Norway has no direct involvement in the important new areas of cooperation in the EU, such as the development of a common European foreign, security and defence policy, EU judicial cooperation and the so-called Lisbon strategy for a competitive and sustainable EU economy. But we have cooperation agreements in several areas. At the same time, this poses major challenges for us. It is becoming increasingly clear as EU legislation becomes more and more important to the Norwegian economy and society. Given the fact that a Norwegian EU membership is not on the agenda today, it is all the more important that we pursue a thoughtful, active and targeted policy towards the European Union, where, to the best of our ability, we make full use of existing agreements and arrangements and are willing to extend cooperation. As part of this work, the Government has recently adopted a European political platform. With the platform, the Government has laid the basis for a targeted European policy, with a number of concrete instruments. Let me mention some priorities here: the top priority of the Government is good governance and effective exploitation of the EEA Agreement. We have wanted to update the EEA Agreement so that it fits better with the legal basis of the EU under the Maastricht and Amsterdam agreements. We must note that the European Commission has said that they do not have the capacity to do so, in parallel with the enlargement negotiations. The enlargement of the EU and the EEA must take place in parallel. We are encouraged that the European Commission is also taking this into account. Developments face a particular challenge: the export of fish and seafood to the candidate countries will be in a worse position when our existing free trade agreements with these countries fail. The government is now considering different options to try to solve this problem. We will also work to solve the problems that salmon industry is now facing in the EU market. The current EU discrimination against producers from different third countries is unfair and must cease. We will further work to bring the European Commission to an end its procedure against the gas-producing companies on the Norwegian base. We will also work to eliminate the delay in implementing EEA acts in Norwegian legislation and, in general, to increase the pace of both this and the inclusion of new acts in the EEA Agreement. We will actively include industry, social partners and non-governmental organisations in a dialogue on the functioning of the EEA Agreement. The Government aims to present its own EEA co-operation notification in April. The government also wants to develop the formal and informal cooperation established between Norway and the EU on foreign, security and defence policy, on justice policy and regional policy. Whether this is so, we have started an active dialogue with the EU. We will actively follow up the military and civil contributions registered to the EU. We will focus on establishing real and practical cooperation with the EU on EU security and defence policy. We have therefore agreed to continue to participate in the police force in Bosnia when this responsibility is transferred from the UN to the EU at the turn of the year. Furthermore, we have agreed to contribute to an EU-led operation in Macedonia if agreement is reached on transferring responsibility from NATO to the EU. In relation to EU judicial cooperation, we will actively monitor agreements concluded, in particular Schengen, the Dublin Convention and Europol. We will link Norway closely to cooperation on justice in the EU, not least in combating international terrorism. Our support for the EU's common position on terrorism has been an important step. Also in the case of Russia, 11 September appears to be a time gap. The terrorist attacks helped to reinforce a fundamental reorientation of Russian foreign policy that was already underway. For several years, Russia had focused on the relationship with its partners, among others. in Asia and the Middle East as a counterbalance to the links with the United States and Europe. The principle of multiple power centers, multipolarity, was often underlined. President Putin, on the other hand, has highlighted Russia's European membership. He sees that the objective of repatriating Russia as an international power can only be achieved through constructive interaction with the West. Even before 11 September, Putin was a driver for building a political and economic partnership with the EU. On 11 September, Russia once again became an important partner for the United States. Russia became a central member of the international coalition against terrorism. Cooperation with the countries of Central Asia became important for the organisation of military operations targeting the terrorist networks and the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. Later developments have shown that President Putin is following up his new orientation. We see it in relation to the United States, and we see it in relation to NATO and to the European Union. A telling example was the muted Russian reaction to the US announcement in December that the country would withdraw from the ABM agreement. Russia's new approach to NATO also shows that we are facing a new era. Towards the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Reykjavik this spring, we will work to develop a whole new cooperation between NATO and Russia, where NATO countries and Russia will meet on an equivalent basis to identify joint initiatives and actions in, among others. the fight against international terrorism, crisis management and non-proliferation and arms control. We welcome this. We are facing an important opportunity to establish qualitative new cooperation that will provide a more solid basis for security and stability throughout the Euro-Atlantic region. In the bilateral relationship with Norway, too, there is evidence of a new and more constructive Russian approach. In his presentation to the Stortinget a few years ago, my predecessor described how a number of questions were made subject to regular Russian criticism of Norway. To the extent that these matters are still raised by the Russian side, a more constructive turnout is now being made. I hope – and choose to believe – that this reflects a will on the Russian side to start a new phase in the Norwegian-Russian relationship. We look forward to President Putin's visit to Norway for the autumn. We must recognise that there are still some unresolved issues of great importance in our bilateral relationship, such as the Barents Sea demarcation negotiations, and it is natural for us to address Russian abuses in Chechnya. One of our main areas of cooperation is environmental and nuclear safety. For several years, Norway and other countries have been working to establish a multilateral framework agreement with Russia. Such an agreement will allow the mobilisation of far greater resources and wider international engagement to address the enormous environmental and nuclear safety problems in the north. It is our hope that we will reach an agreement on this agreement before the summer. It'll be a big step forward. In the follow-up to such an agreement, I would like to make immediate contact with the countries concerned in order to ensure the swiftest possible implementation of the agreement. Another important area of cooperation between Norway and Russia is the management of the Common Fisheries Resources in the Barents Sea. Here again, there have been some positive developments in recent years. Among other things, we hope that it will be possible to cooperate effectively on research pillars in both countries' economic zones, which is absolutely necessary to ensure sound resource management. Let me also mention the cooperation in the Barents region. This remains a key pillar in our relationship with Russia. Barent cooperation has now been an important framework for nine years, both at central and regional level, and not least in the case of people working on people's people's cooperation along the border in the north. Finally, we see the results of this initiative also on the business side. The government will do its part to support Barents' cooperation in the coming years, and will take steps such as: to facilitate access for Russians wishing to work in North Norway. We want to use the decade marker next year to consolidate and further deepen this cooperation. Last Friday, the parties to the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka lodged a formalized ceasefire. The agreement was concluded with Norwegian participation and the parties asked Norway to publish the agreement. We have also been asked to lead a group to observe that the parties comply with the agreement. With this truce, there has been a basis for negotiations on a political solution to the conflict, a conflict that has lasted for two decades and has claimed more than 60,000 lives. It has created deep distrust between the population groups and their leaders, but it is clear the will of both sides to build trust. They know that there is a long and difficult road to peace, reconciliation and development. But they also know that continuing the conflict will lead to even more suffering for the civilian population and an even worse economic and social situation in the country. Over the years, there have been repeated attempts at peace talks between the parties, with no results. When we have said that we are willing to assist the parties in new attempts, it is because we see a renewed willingness to reach. This willingness is expressed in the agreement in three ways. Firstly, the agreement itself adds to a step-by-step approach that is realistic and feasible. Secondly, both parties want international observers, and it is in itself a commitment from the parties to the international community. Thirdly, the agreement places great emphasis on improvements in people's living conditions and not just on purely technical weapon status issues. It shows a deliberate willingness of the parties to restore normal life to the population of Sri Lanka. However, there is reason to expect problems and setbacks along the way. From the Norwegian side, we have agreed to assist the parties also in the continuation, and we have asked the international community for political and financial support for this demanding process. In particular, there is a need for humanitarian assistance and assistance for reconstruction. Norway has a long tradition of humanitarian engagement for people suffering from distress or oppression. Since Fridtjof Nansen, humanitarian efforts have been part of our national identity. Since Hambro, Norway has been working towards the widest possible commitment of cooperation between the world’s nations. As a small country, it is in our own interest to strengthen the international legal order and international bodies, to promote human rights and democracy, and to contribute to the resolution of conflicts by peaceful means. Our humanitarian efforts and our efforts for peace and reconciliation help to improve the situation of people suffering from war and conflict. At the same time, we learn that the role we play in several of the world's conflict zones makes us an interesting interlocutor for others. It is important what Norway believes about humanitarian issues and the development of certain conflict areas. An important additional effect of our role provides us with opportunities to promote Norwegian views also in cases where we have national interests that could otherwise be difficult to achieve. The humanitarian role of Norway is also an important basis for our efforts in the UN Security Council. Over the 1990s, the Security Council committed itself to a number of armed conflicts. The vast majority of them have been civil wars, where nine out of ten killed have been civilians, often killed with too easily accessible handguns. A large number of these conflicts take place in poor countries, not least in Africa. This is why, during our membership of the UN Security Council, we have chosen to focus a specific searchlight on conflict prevention and peace building in Africa, and to strengthen the African countries' own ability to take responsibility for their own peace and security. The conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has only claimed nearly one hundred thousand lives in the last four years. Norway has had the primary responsibility for dealing with this conflict in the Council. Now we're at a crossroads. The Parties agree that a border commission shall determine the border conflict between the two countries. The border commission is likely to make its views known by the end of March. Hopefully, this will form the basis for a lasting peace solution. I visited both countries less than two weeks ago, while Norway's UN Ambassador a few days ago led a delegation from the Security Council on a work visit to Ethiopia and Eritrea. The main purpose of both visits was to support the peace process, including: by identifying the possibilities for contributing to the rapid and smooth implementation of the Border Commission’s decision. The mandate of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force between Ethiopia and Eritrea – UNMEE – will be extended in March, under the Norwegian Presidency of the Security Council. I have strongly encouraged the parties to put an end to this bloody and senseless conflict. Progress in this work shall not be at the expense of the efforts of either the United Nations or Norway. In Zimbabwe, President Mugabe is in the process of destroying both the country's economy and its democratic system. As you know, Norway has closed all state aid to Zimbabwe and, together with other countries, has sought to put the strongest political pressure on Mugabe and his regime. The EU decided last week to withdraw its electoral observers and impose targeted sanctions against Mugabe and his supporters. But both the EU, Zimbabwe’s neighbouring country and the opposition in Zimbabwe want as many international observers as possible during the elections. Norway has decided to send 21 electoral observers to the country, which will be available after the 9 and 10 March elections, provided that they are given acceptable employment and their safety is fully ensured. The EU has fully supported the sending of observers by other countries, including Norway. The issue of whether Norway should also impose sanctions is being evaluated on an ongoing basis in the light of developments, not least in the interests of security of posted personnel. Norwegian involvement in Sudan is based on long traditions and extensive cooperation with Norwegian non-governmental organisations and the research community. The possibilities for progress in the peace process in Sudan now appear to be slightly greater than in the long run, in the light of an active Kenyan mediation and because American involvement is now stronger in the conflict. This has led the Parties to an agreement for the first time in January on a humanitarian truce in the strategically important area around the Nubällene, where a Norwegian Brigade will lead the International Monitoring Group. I have also asked the Minister for Development to follow up the peace process in Sudan. The situation in Afghanistan will undoubtedly be high on the Security Council's agenda next month. The most pressing need now is physical security and political stability. Without rapid and effective integration into Afghan communities by the many armed groups, Afghanistan is at high risk of being divided between local warlords who rely largely on violence and drug trafficking. Without rapid progress in the political process, there is a danger that the interim administration, with Prime Minister Karzai at the head, will lose legitimacy and be placed on the sideline. Afghanistan has a new start. Neither the Afghan people nor the world community can afford to fail. As head of the Afghanistan Support Group, ASG, we in Norway stress that humanitarian aid and reconstruction work contribute to supporting and not undermining the difficult political process in that country. The Afghan Interim Authorities must be able to govern their country and to keep an overview of their aid operations. The donor countries, UN organisations and other relief organisations must be less concerned with planting their flags and more concerned with helping the Afghans themselves to build their own country. Norway gave about last year. 310 million. kr mainly for humanitarian action in Afghanistan. This year, we're going to deliver 350 million. in humanitarian aid, transitional assistance and longer-term assistance. Of this, we've already given more than 50 million. kr in direct budgetary support to the Interim Authorities, precisely to contribute to political stability. Furthermore, we have agreed to contribute to the establishment of a police force in the country, in cooperation with other countries. As Chairman of the Security Council in March, we will work to increase international support for the Interim Administration and to extend the mandate of the International Security Force in Afghanistan, ISAF. The question of extending the responsibilities of this force is being considered in order to respond to repeated requests from the Afghan side for increased international assistance to address the country’s internal security problems. But here too, finally, the Afghans must take responsibility for their own future. It won't be a day without reports of new violence episodes in the Middle East. Looking at developments in a slightly longer time perspective, it is particularly over the last two years that we have witnessed a tragic and violent escalation of the conflict — excessive Israeli use of power and liquidations, or ever-new Palestinian terrorist attacks. The area is inside a destructive spiral of violence that must be broken. We're sitting back with a Palestinian community on the brink of collapse. We sit back with a frustrated and dedicated civilian population who listens more and more to extremists' light and bloody solutions. We are sitting back with a Palestinian president who is under house arrest and at the same time held responsible for everything that has to happen, such as new Palestinian suicide actions – despite the fact that on the Israeli side, more and more of Arafat's own police and security forces have been systematically out of play. The Israeli people are neither given peace nor security. We see an Israeli civilian population being increasingly hit by new terrorist attacks, while even the most inconvenient optimists on the Israeli side are now losing hope of a peaceful solution. It's not an easy task to point out a way out of this mess. None of the parties seem to have any strategy to end the use of violence. Trust in the other is at a low level — both among political leaders and among the population. Violence is systematically reciprocated with more violence, even though both parties inside know that this only increases hatred and hostility. Terrorism cannot be defended. President Arafat has to do what he can to stop the terrorist attacks on Israel. At the same time, the Palestinian people themselves must make a settlement with the groups that stand for blind hatred and terror. An important reason for the situation is Israel's occupation and lack of willingness to engage in real political dialogue. After the violence went down after Arafat's speech on December 16, last year, Israel should have given a positive response. Focusing on security and trust in military solutions and the absence of willingness to talk about the underlying political problems characterise the Israeli approach. The public humiliation of President Arafat, the collective punishment of the Palestinians and the extensive Israeli military sanctions only contribute to a further deterioration of the situation. We will continue to actively seek to bring the parties on a more constructive track, primarily by promoting dialogue and confidence-building, by pointing out the non-compliance with the Oslo Agreement, and by maintaining the obligations of international law. Norway is currently leading the only international observer force in the region – TIPH in Hebron. We are followers of international observers also in other parts of the Palestinian territories. But this is no dangerous way without both parties being willing to accept such a solution. It is a necessary condition for observers to carry out their duties. We will also pay particular attention to contributing to greater social and economic stability in the Palestinian territories through our Presidency of the donor country group AHLC. We are therefore working on convening a donor country meeting in Oslo as a concrete contribution to improving the situation. However, the immediate need is to stop violence and to contribute to building the minimum of confidence necessary for the resumption of negotiations by the parties. It is this which is the main essence of the so-called Mitchell report, as among other things. former foreign minister Thorbjørn Jagland stood behind, and the parties and the international community end up in. Last, but not least, it is important that the United States now put a new and sustained pressure on both sides. However, it is up to the parties themselves to create peace in the Middle East. We cannot force them to solve their problems peacefully, if they themselves have greater faith in violence and conflict. However, we must not give up in our efforts for peace, and against terror and violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e375	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister's foreign policy statement be debated at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e389	It is a joint foreign committee that has now endorsed the proposal of the representative of Groningen Steinar Bastesen to intensify work towards the United Kingdom to close the Sellafield plant. The background of Document No. The 8 proposal is that the coastal population is very concerned about the increasing amount of radioactive contamination along the Norwegian coast. However, radioactive pollution comes not only from Sellafield but also largely from La Hague, France. The problems of getting the British to do something about Sellafield just illustrate how powerless we are in international environmental protection. The principle of «polluter pays» was seriously put on the agenda of the Rio Declaration in 1992 and has been implemented in national legislation in large parts of the world. There are currently strict criminal provisions relating to environmental crime when individuals or companies are polluting illegally. However, for countries it is largely free and pollution across borders has no legal or economic consequences. It must be considered totally unsustainable that it is almost lawful for a country to pollute another country. This is at the heart of the problem, and it is therefore a joint foreign committee that Norway believes must be a driving force in its work internationally in order to make countries legally and financially responsible for damage caused by pollution across national borders and to assess whether it is appropriate to promote a binding convention for the environment in general. The objective must be that ‘pollutants must pay’ also in the case of a country that is a polluter. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for the Environment for his active role in relation to the United Kingdom. For many years, however, Norway has had almost a housekeeper’s spirit in its relationship with the United Kingdom. For example, for decades we have accepted that acid rain from British industry pollutes and kills fish in rivers and lakes all over South Norway, just to ensure the profit of these companies. In the Committee on Energy and the Environment, therefore, we have each harvest a discussion between the lots of the amount of liming to be allocated and, normally, it has amounted to around 110 million. kr. But the bill should have been sent to the British Government, which is responsible for the national emission limits that lead to this pollution and that ensure the profit of British companies. It must now be the end of our patience towards the United Kingdom and other countries that pollute across borders. We no longer have to accept that we have to pay for the pollution of others. It is the polluter who has to pay. Emissions from the two Thorp and B205 reprocessing plants at Sellafield are known to cause the largest radioactive emissions polluting the Norwegian coast. These emissions can be traced from the Irish Sea, northwards along the coast of Norway to the Barents Sea as far as Svalbard. Reprocessing is a way of treating used reactor fuel. The process involves dissolving the used fuel into acid so that it can extract uranium and plutonium from the waste. This can be used in new fuels. British Nuclear Fuels Ltd. markets reprocessing as a means of recycling uranium and plutonium, using it again in so-called Mixed Oxide Fuel, MOX. However, when the fuel is dissolved, other high-activity radionuclides that have been formed while the fuel was in use in the reactor are also released. These are waste products such as: strontium-90, cesium-137 and technetium-99. These are drugs you don't need. The large amounts of radioactivity remaining after the reprocessing at Sellafield are mainly discharged into a separate treatment plant on the site. Emissions from the storage basins of spent reactor fuel are purified in another installation. However, cleaning out all radioactivity is very difficult and expensive and none of the plants can clean out Tc-99. These isotopes are therefore released impurely into the Irish Sea. There are methods to take care of this waste, but it is too expensive according to the British authorities. There has been a massive pressure from Norway to close Sellafield. The Minister for the Environment and the Committee on Energy and the Environment spoke with a clear voice, and they have had the support of an overall increase. Why do we react so strongly to these emissions? State radiation protection has measured elevated levels of the radioactive substance Tc-99 along the coast of Norway. Values can be measured in lobsters, crabs and seagrass and in tender organisms along the entire Norwegian coast, and the incidence of Tc-99 has increased markedly in recent years. Researchers have disagreed on the threat of emissions from Sellafield to fish and seafood along the Norwegian coast. For example, chemistry professor Per Hoff says to the Evening Post on 19 December 2001 that the protests against Sellafield are ‘pulp populism’, and he compares emissions to venting a bikini in the neighbor’s garden. ‘Frequent and unnecessary but not dangerous’ he claims. It is true that levels in Norway are currently low, but these will increase if emissions continue in the years to come. Tc-99 has a half-life of 213 000 years, which means that Tc-99 will remain in the environment for the foreseeable future. From a long-term perspective, it is impossible to predict fully what consequences the radioactive substance will have in the food chain, and here a leading commodity protest from the Norwegian side must be introduced. State radiation protection estimates that emissions from Sellafield take about 2.5 years to reach the coast of Norway. It's about the same time that emissions use from La Hague to the Norwegian coast. The British have signalled that they will continue the emissions up to 2006. If emissions continue to grow, they pose a potential threat to the future. It is precisely this future uncertainty that lies behind the protests against Sellafield. In addition to emissions, transport of MOX to and from Sellafield also represents an environmental and safety risk. The British want to transport the radioactive waste in ships on a route along the Norwegian coast and northwards to Murmansk. Transport of nuclear waste from elsewhere in Europe may also be relevant. Greenpeace has calculated that there will be radioactive radiation doses equal to 30 Chernobyl accidents on board these ships. Statistically, such an accident is unlikely to occur, but the risk to it is maximum. The likelihood that something could happen unexpectedly during nuclear transport has come to light after 11 September. One final point is that pollution fear can also lead to a loss of market share for Norwegian fish exports. Emissions are disturbing the market for Norwegian fish, and we know that, among other things: the Japanese Embassy has addressed the Norwegian authorities for more information. How can we best react to emissions? Norwegian authorities and politicians have been very active in their protests, but so far few concrete results are seen. The Irish Government has withdrawn the United Kingdom from the International Court of the Sea in Hamburg, accusing them of breaching international provisions on the provision of information necessary for analysis of the need to open the factory. Mr Brende gave full moral and political support to the Irish initiative. The Court rejected Ireland’s request for immediate cessation of plans for the extension of the nuclear recovery facility Sellafield, but the Court held that the British have an obligation to cooperate with the Irish. There is an international convention against such emissions, the OSPAR Convention, which is behind Norway’s active efforts to reduce Sellafield emissions. The Clean Sea OSPAR Convention obliges the British to use the best technology available to clean emissions. The best way to stop the Tc-99 emissions is to turn the liquid Tc-99 waste into solid and store it. It's not impossible to store it, just a question of economic priorities. And so far, the British government has not wanted to prioritise this financially. On the other hand, one per person is a problem. there are currently no effective sanctions against countries that contaminate. There is no binding Convention for the Environment that can be applied as a legal basis in actions against countries that contaminate. Work on binding international conventions on the environment must begin, and Norway should be a driving force in this work. Such binding conventions could make it more difficult for international courts to reject cases brought against States claimed to be responsible for economic or environmental damage caused by transboundary pollution. Of course, it's a pleasure that since 1972 we've had hundreds of international conventions on the environment. However, only two-three of these are legally binding and linked to sanctions – the Berne Convention, the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Kyoto Protocol, which, upon its entry into force, shall be binding and contain penalties. Right after the war we got the European Convention on Human Rights, and it was also linked to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The possibility of access to international courts, for example, may also be strengthened. The International Court of Justice in The Hague and the Department of the Environment there, that there may be cases of cross-border pollution. An opportunity may be to extend the European Convention on Human Rights to include the environment, so that an expression expresses the human right to live in a clean environment. Thus, one could also open up environmental matters to the European Court of Justice. It may be even more relevant to strengthen the possibility of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, but then one depends on getting a binding convention where penalties are attached to pollution across borders. A comprehensive Foreign Affairs Committee is now asking the Norwegian Government to intensify its work and to be a driving force for such a binding convention, at least to assess the possibility of obtaining such a binding convention for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e431	In the Storting, it is often the issues in which we disagree, which create the most debate and commitment. But in this case, there is a cross-political consensus and at the same time a strong commitment from all the parties. We in the Workers' Party think it is natural that the bourgeois government, with the councillor Børge Burnde at the head, has actively followed up the work for, among other things. Mr Stoltenberg and former Minister for the Environment Siri Bjerke. The Nordic Environment Ministers agreed on a letter to British Environment Minister Michael Meacher last August. The letter referred to the Ministerial meeting of the OSPAR Commission in Portugal in 1998, where the parties undertook to prevent radioactive pollution of maritime areas. Like the rapporteur, the Labour Party has a deep hope that the work will bring positive results. As part of Norwegian work, the Energy and Environment Committee visited Sellafield in January. Before we got there, we were first in Ireland, where we had meetings with representatives of the government and parliament, and then we were in London, where we, among other things, were. met with Minister of Environment Michael Meacher. These were meetings that were all interesting and educational, and we felt that we had a good dialogue with the Minister for the Environment, sail if he couldn't promise us anything concrete. We felt that we wanted to spend a long time on this because it is problematic to store the waste on land, and that it was a more important element than the economic one. At that time he had also not received a specific request from the Sellafield plant for storage on land. But in the sign of optimism, however, we concluded that it had been a positive meeting. What I personally will remember best is the visit to the plant itself. It was a dense facility, with strong emphasis on safety, where we were controlled and measured in relation to radioactivity on the road both in and out of different parts of the plant. We were not allowed to take hands up to our mouths, and we were not allowed to chew gum – everything to ensure that we were not exposed to radiation. In this facility, there are 10,000 people employed, and it is definitely the dominant job in the district that has fewer inhabitants in England. We were told that the amount of cancer was up to 14 times higher than in the rest of England. Nevertheless, the main concern was that the plant should be shut down. It's obvious on such visits that the energy-intensive way of life we've applied has some very negative consequences. It gives cause for reflection. However, the reason for the Norwegian involvement in this matter is that the emissions from Sellafield also directly affect us. In particular, emissions have increased since the British started in 1994 with the treatment of old Magnox waste, which from the mid 1980s was stored in mind. The problem with this cleaning process is that it does not remove technetium-99. The highest emission occurred in 1995 and was 40 times higher than in 1993. Emissions have led to a significant increase in the concentration of technetium-99 along the Norwegian coast up to Svalbard. With a degradation time of 213,000 years, it actually means that emissions have come to be, and for every year, it's getting a little bit more. Let me underline that per. At present, radioactive waste does not pose a health problem in relation to Norwegian fish. Norwegian fish can be marketed as pure fish with a good conscience. But we know, for example. that the environment in the Barents Sea is very vulnerable, and we know that we still know little about the long-term effects of emissions. During the visit of the Energy and Environment Committee to Sellafield, we experienced an understanding and willingness to address the problem. The challenge is that it's urgent. As I said, there was a marked increase in 1994 when old waste that had been stored since the 1980s, which had so far been in large numbers. According to plan, most of this waste will be pre-treated, and thus most of the technology from the old waste released, by 2006. That's why it's urgent as I said, and then it might be good for the government to know that it has support in Stortinget. This is why Stortinget provides clear support for the Government to continue its long-term work on the Norwegian side to stop radioactive emissions from Sellafield. In addition, the Committee, on which the rapporteur was concerned, calls for Norway to be a driver internationally in order to render States legally and financially responsible for damage caused by pollution across national borders and to consider whether an international binding Convention on the Environment should be promoted in general, so that the polluter-pays principle also applies to States.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e448	The United Kingdom already established nuclear installations in Sellafield in the 1940s. The time the windscale plant was hot, and from 1952 plutonium was produced to nuclear weapons with emissions of radioactivity to the atmosphere and the Irish Sea. The world's first commercial nuclear power plant was established there in 1956. The radioactive pollution along the Norwegian coast has doubled since the mid-1990s. This is due, inter alia, to: the releases of radioactive material from the Sellafield plant to the Irish Sea. In the United Kingdom, emissions are expected to increase even more in the coming years. According to a number of researchers, emissions represent a very serious environmental threat. Several Norwegian politicians have participated in the protests. The protests have been carried out both through direct contact and through various resolutions in the Nordic Council and North Sea cooperation. During an Environment Ministerial meeting in Copenhagen, it became clear that the Nordic countries will experience such a decision as disappointing and provocative. The solution of the Nordic Ministers is either a reduction of the emission limits as soon as possible, or a storage of the waste while waiting for the best possible clean-up technique to be used. It is not impossible for the United Kingdom to store and clean the waste rather than send it to sea. So far radioactive substances, especially isotopic technetium-99, from Sellafield have been transported with the ocean currents. Tc-99 has been detected in seaweed, shellfish and fish. The 213,000-year half-life of the substance suggests that the substance will remain in the environment at the time we see it in front of us. The UK pollution authority accepts an emission limit of 90 000 becquerel per year. in Norway and the other Nordic countries want to lower it to 10,000 becquerel. It's scientists who don't think Tc-99 pollution is a serious environmental problem. As the substance is water-soluble, it will soon be separated by e.g. the human body. The State's radiation protection system has also pointed out that the amounts of Tc-99 are currently so small that they do not pose a risk to human health. You have to say that it's a drop in the ocean and harmless what's being released, but as you know, many drops can quickly become a big pond. Another problem is that pollution of our marine areas can be the drop that makes us want to float towards those who are going to buy our seafood products. Sellafield has been releasing significant amounts of Tc-99 in addition to other radioactive substances for many years. By continuing emissions at the same level, the pollution of nature increases. An increase in emissions from the installation, as planned, will lead to significantly greater pollution of the environment. Norway wants to avoid this, not least because we are so dependent on our fish, our shellfish and other marine products as clean as possible, for both health and economic reasons. If an increase in emissions is adopted in the United Kingdom, it applies not only to Tc-99 but also to those emissions arising as a result of the possibility of providing a clear signal for the production of the MOX nuclear fuel. The fishing industry believes we can't afford to let our resources in the sea be harmful. Nor is it necessary to ask questions about the purity of our seafood products. They believe that only a rumor of emissions or other adverse effects can cause significant losses to the industry. The Environmental Foundation Bellona calls for Norway to break down all cooperation with the United Kingdom in nuclear research. It's a little constructive. Boikott and contact breakage are a little productive way to go if you want to achieve results. In this debate, it is important to note that different units of measurement and measurement are used. This creates uncertainty and doubts about the various results presented in different claims. In an article by Per Hoff, professor of the Chemical Institute of the University of Oslo, he promotes a claim that the pollution from Sellafield is harmless. He refers to measurements in lobsters from Sunnhordland, and describes this amount of pollution as harmless. In this article he operates with a irradiation from Tc-99 of 42 becquerel per. kg of undried meat. According to him, this dose is quite harmless. These are then the values of radiation in lobsters he uses as a argument to harmlessen the emissions from Sellafield. The interesting thing in this context is that the values that underlie, among other things, Børge Brende's argument, is a completely different one. The values calculated from the measurement in lobster at Fredrikstad are 50 pst. above the EU action limit for seafood, which is 1250 becquerel per year. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, So the radiation from Tc-99 is over 1 925 becquerel per. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, That's an obvious lack of comparisons. There's a big difference between 42 becquerel and 1 925 becquerel in undried meat in lobster. From the different points of view and from the social and environmental developments we have today, it seems reasonable to be critical of existing and future emissions from Sellafield, both politically, health and the environment. The Progress Party therefore believes that it would be best to stop emissions now, until a better way of getting rid of the waste is found. After all, it's all about our food tray.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e478	Two assessments have a doctor behind SV's position in this matter: Should we give new powder to the old conventions? Or are we going to help the government work more generally with the environment and with a new convention, which we can hopefully count on then has more powder in it? In this respect, we first had some points of appeal – initially. We have the UNFCCC, we have conventions on the protection and sustainable use of biological deficiency, we have the ozone agreement, etc. In all these conventions, criminal mechanisms have been incorporated. At the same time as the government is starting work on a binding convention on the environment in general, it must also continue to work on making the already existing non-committal contracts more binding, such as: The OSPAR agreement, which could have helped with Sellafield emissions if there were sanctions in him. In the view of SV, Stortinget has now provided a good basis for the Government to work on a broad front against environmental crime. We hope that the Council of State, which is present here, will note that he has thus been given almost free powers from the Stortinget to work on a broad front against environmental crime. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on whether the Norwegian legislation is bid for an international convention. We have some other conventions that Norway has ratified, but if we do, we see that the Norwegian legislation is not up and going. So I want to ask the council to check it out. I would also like to ask for a little comment on the information that has emerged in the World Gang on Norwegian oil fund investments in potential suppliers of nuclear waste to Sellafield.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e491	The sea is our common dish. This case shows how important it is to have international agreements and international sanctions, and I am very pleased that the Government has now chosen to focus on the marine environment in a number of cases. The left has an annual commitment to the fight against radioactivity and other emissions. Among other things, we conducted the fight against the Dounreay plant decades ago, and we have also been at the forefront of the North Norway action against the nuclear threat from the Kola Peninsula – just to mention something. Our commitment was continued by the Minister of Environmental Protection of the Central Government Guro Fjellanger, and together with her Nordic colleagues. In the subsequent Labour Party government, the commitment was not substantial – it was just one letter that was sent, and only when the Left took the initiative for an active campaign, among others. to the signature operation last summer. Together with then parliamentary leader Gunnar Kvassheim, we visited the Sellafield plant. The interest in the matter among the other parties and among the media was not striking at first, but it increased considerably as we launched our signature campaign in August. The media review doubled. Attention was paid beyond the fall, and for the Left, it was important to step up efforts and get it into the Sem Declaration as a separate programme item. And so it was. The case has been followed up in an exemplary manner by the Minister for the Environment, Burnde. But it is important in the future to keep pressure on the matter, and I expect that will be done, among other things. by being the subject of the North Sea Conference in March. The left is very pleased with the offensive attitude the Government has shown in the matter. It's positive that the Coastal Party is showing commitment, even if the proposal seems somewhat redundant. Norway’s Fiskarlag has also been very active in the case — together with many local authorities and others along the coast of Norway. It is obvious that signing campaigns and other activities have been noticed and stress the UK authorities. The removal of pollution sources is crucial for life and nutrition along our coast, and there is no uncertainty about the quality of fish and other natural resources in the sea. It is bad neighborhood to pollute the neighbor's food barrel, and we expect the British to stop the emissions by cleaning. The left has received national coverage for one of our most important election issues, and we are very happy for that. A comprehensive and strong national and international pressure is needed to address these problems. Careful diplomatic exercises are not sufficient in a case like this. Unfortunately, it has turned out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e506	Let me first say that there are over 100 international binding agreements in the field of the environment. The challenge is to obtain international consensus on measures that are rigorous enough, that are environmentally effective enough, and that have satisfactory mechanisms to ensure – not least – compliance. Environmental conventions are the result of compromises between many countries, and the result is not always consistent with what Norway would ideally want. So from the first day, the co-operation administration has put pressure on the UK government to convert it into the Environment Directorate’s decision to continue the radioactive emissions of technetium-99 until 2006. This was also an important point in the Sem Declaration – which the representative Skei Grande had in mind – and was a follow-up to one of the government parties, namely the strong involvement of the Left in the election campaign in relation to the technetium-99 emissions. It has been my job to follow up this commitment, and since October 2001, when the matter was raised at ministerial level in connection with the EU Environment Ministerial meeting in Luxembourg on Norwegian initiative, we have followed up the matter bilaterally, including in particular. during my visit last December to the responsible ministers in the United Kingdom, Margaret Beckett and Michael Meacher. I also had the opportunity to visit the facility itself, and I don't think the British government is in any doubt about what Norway and the other Nordic countries mean. The matter is also raised at all appropriate occasions in the political contacts of the Government with the United Kingdom and, as mentioned earlier, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now reviewed the legal aspects of the technetium-99 emissions. Although the British claim that the emissions of technetium are harmless, it appears that the British authorities do not have a consistent view of this. During my visit to Sellafield, it was found that the British authorities consider it risky to finalize technetium-99 in their own territory, because some of the technetium content can then leak out of the landfill once in the future. The UK authorities therefore consider it impractical to store the technology-containing waste they will then receive. At the same time, the British authorities believe that it is acceptable to send out the entire stock of technetium into the sea. In a letter to the British Minister for the Environment, I pointed out this paradox and asked for the testing of technetium cleaning methods to be taken up, and that this be temporarily stored on Sellafield instead of letting it right into the sea. We know that technetium-99 has a half-life of 213,000 years. Now, the numbers with which you operate in relation to the state of the Norwegian Sea and the coast are a little confusing. But at least it's documented through samples that seaweed has a becquerel content of up to 600. The EU action limit for a nuclear accident is 1250 becquerel. The EU action limit for baby food is 400 becquerel. What my supervisory authorities cannot exclude is that if the technetium-99 emissions continue from the United Kingdom in the years to come, one will be able to obtain a technetium content, among others. in seaweed entering the EU action limit. We should also be aware that seaweed is an important export industry for Norway. I have hopes that the strong Norwegian commitment has made an impression on the British authorities, and I hope the matter will find a technically and politically acceptable solution. The Sellafield case is otherwise a good illustration of the topic we are also dealing with here today: the need to strengthen the international regime in the field of the environment. Strengthening the arrangements for complying with environmental conventions will be a high priority theme for the Government in connection with the Rio+10 meeting in Johannesburg for the autumn. In addition, we will take the initiative to review the status of environmental compliance mechanisms and identify the needs for improvement. It will be a necessary basis to create the will to move forward with concrete negotiations. With regard to the second theme, environmentally harmful activities in one country that have a direct impact on other countries, several initiatives are currently under way to make the country responsible for pollution. This field is to a small extent regulated by Conventions. This means that the legal rules in this area are uncertain, which in turn means that it may be difficult to reach by bringing international proceedings. In the future, Norway will be a driver, not least in the United Nations, in order to complete, among other things, its activities. the two Conventions on the Liability of States for infringements of international law and on the responsibility of States for the prevention of environmental damage. With regard to the responsibility of countries for activities that are initially legal but have environmental consequences, the Government will examine the possibility of having this on the agenda of forums other than the International Law Commission. As many of the environmental problems we face in Norway are closely related to Eastern Europe, it is important that we select a forum in which these countries participate. The environment situation today is fragmented legislation and many different organisations. It will be a major challenge to establish a new environmental court, but in my view, the need is absolutely present. I would therefore like to discuss this issue with colleagues in other countries. At first, however, it will be an objective to make the courts that we already have more effective and attractive. Therefore, greater attention should be paid to the existence of the Chamber of Environment of the Hague Court and knowledge of the benefits of its application. The Government will also assess whether it may be appropriate to take initiatives to bring about a more efficient and less resource-intensive procedure for environmental matters under the Environmental Chamber of the Hague Court of Justice. The competence of the courts is largely determined by the environmental conventions. The government will initiate a review of environmental conventions with a view to establishing rules and procedures that increase the likelihood of countries accepting international courts. The government has also stepped up its efforts to ratify protocols which are then binding on Norway and thereby adapted to Norwegian legislation. We also want to be a driver for getting such arrangements as I mentioned instead, into new conventions. We will take the initiative to draw up proposals for standard formulations for environmental conventions that will strengthen the role of both the Hague Court and arbitration courts under the Conventions. In addition to specific cases, the Court of Justice may examine cases brought by UN bodies in so-called advisory opinions, as was done, for example, in relation to the use of nuclear weapons. The assumption is that a decision will be taken in a relevant UN body, for example: the general meeting, to bring the matter before the Court of Justice. The Government will consider whether it may be appropriate to take initiatives to raise such issues also in the field of the environment. Finally, let me mention that the EU has come a long way in working on a directive on environmental liability. The proposal for a Directive is based on the polluter-pays principle and aims at establishing legislation to prevent and repair environmental damage. The most important thing for Norway will be that the Directive establishes minimum requirements for countries so that they have to provide for effective judicial redress in matters of liability for environmentally harmful activity. From the Norwegian side, we will also seek to actively contribute to the EU directive becoming an effective instrument in environmental work. It may also have effects on environmental problems that we are discussing here today, which are under ongoing discussion in Norway. I would like to discuss this with the European Commissioner for the Environment, Mr Wallström, on Thursday and to announce full Norwegian support for the directive. It is likely that this will also be EEA-relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e540	First, I would like to welcome what the Minister for the Environment said here. I think it is gratifying that he is now signaling a far more active role in looking at what legal basis exists internationally, in bringing cases before courts, and also opening up a new environmental court. It is clear that after World War II the great challenge was human rights. We first received the European Convention on Human Rights and then the International Convention on Human Rights, and in Europe it is linked to a court of law. Perhaps we could get something similar in the environmental field, that we first get to a European regime linked to a court of law, which can gradually be expanded to apply internationally. I think it's a good way to go, too, to strengthen the Hague Court, but the problem is the possibility that lies in the Conventions, and the compliance with the environmental conventions. It is difficult to sue today because there is no international agreement on how to do this. I am very pleased that the Minister for the Environment is now signaling that Norway will be a driving force in its work internationally. When the representative of Konglevoll says she's also happy that you're now continuing a long-term job, it's a pleasure that the whole committee shares. The reason why there has been a long-standing job is that you have operated largely on polite recommendations, and the problem is that you have had no power to back up the demands. We would never, in Norway, accept that environmental crime is treated in the same way, that we just make polite recommendations to companies to be so kind as to stop contaminating. That's what we do internationally, because we don't have legal rules that involve sanctions. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: what about starting work to inform the British population as well? I think there is little pressure on British parliamentarians and the British government from their own people. And what about a campaign in British newspapers, on TV and on radio, which shows the British population the adverse effects of this cross-border pollution? Then I think of both the radioactive pollution, the acid rain, which damages Norwegian rivers and lakes, and how the British population should put pressure on its own authorities to stop pollution across national borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e551	One of the things that has characterized the Sellafield case is that it's been hard to get information about what really happened. Prior to the visit of the Energy and Environment Committee to the Sellafield plant, Sunnmørsposten was able to read that there was a letter from the BNFL on the permit to attempt to store the waste on land – ‘on the site’, as it says. The Committee asked the same question repeatedly when we were in the United Kingdom, if this letter existed. Finally, it was found that the letter of permission to initiate an attempt at storage on land to be started from the fall of was scheduled to be sent, but it was not yet written and has not yet been sent to the British authorities. My question to the Council of State is: Is that letter sent by Today? Does the Norwegian authorities know anything about this? What, if any, will the Council of State do to follow up this question of land-based storage? After I have been informed of this, the letter has still not been sent from BNFL to the UK authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e560	Let me once again pay tribute to the Minister for the Environment for his positive commitment to this matter as well. Let me also wish that there will be many more – we are ready from the SV page. But I have some challenges that it's a little complicated to answer. In any case, it has been for previous governments and for the Minister for the Protection of the Environment. One goes on the Halden reactor, which SV wants to shut down, but which, after all, has a link in the form that one uses the services one has on Sellafield. I wonder if the Minister for the Environment can take a last round and do something about where it stands, whether there is anything new about Halden's business, or whether one is ready to support SV's requirement for closure. The pressure has shown that we are actually investing money in the nuclear power industry through the oil fund. So we're going to put money into a business that we want to spend the most money on. This activity, in turn, does not reduce the activity of Sellafield in relation to, for example, technetium. In fact, Norway, through the oil fund and through these investments, is involved in sustaining the nuclear power industry and actually wants it to grow and become stronger. My last question to the Minister for the Environment: When one sees that this is complicated when one is above all thinking about the environment, is it justified to continue and invest in the nuclear industry with the Norwegian oil fund? Is that correct from the Minister for the Environment's assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e571	After a number of questions, I chose to ask for the word again, not to withdraw the meeting, but to try to answer the questions raised. First to the representative Rise about the work we put up to to inform the British population: I can only stress that the commitment of the Norwegian authorities and not least the Stortinget has also had in relation to Sellafield, has really been marked, and it has been noted in the United Kingdom. Press clippings have been received after the visit of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. They were in most British media, including television. The same thing I've been told was the result of the visit I had, so I actually believe in traditional political markers and conversations with British authorities. There's also an emerging understanding in the United Kingdom, I have the impression that it's not a particularly good solution to run radioactive waste that can be stored and cleaned into the ocean. So it was the representative Vaggen Malvik, who raised the question of whether the BNFL, the owner of the Sellafield plant, has now formally sent an application to the British Environmental Agency and other relevant British agencies in relation to taking up the idea and the application they had three to four years ago for storage at Sellafield. My acquaintance has not sent this letter yet, but we keep it constantly informed about it. Last week, I sent a letter to the British Environment Minister, Michael Meacher, who I also talked to about Sellafield at an international Environment Ministerial meeting held in Cartagena last week, reminding me that three-four years ago BNFL applied to store the waste at Sellafield, but the British authorities said no to this, assuming that there were too many potential environmental consequences. They therefore believe that there are too many potential environmental impacts of storing waste on land, but driving it irrevocably into the sea — with a degradation time of 213,000 years — some claim that it is not environmentally harmful at all. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get In the letter to Michael Meacher, I remind you that the Norwegian authorities want us now to go in for a temporary storage on land until we choose to clean up the technetium-99, which is completely possible, and which is just an economic issue. This is also in order to put further pressure on UK environmental authorities in relation to any application from BNFL. So the representative of Langeland raised three different issues related to nuclear power more generally. Now I would like to stress that what the Norwegian authorities have done is, first of all, to bring up with the British authorities the totally unacceptable practice of using the sea as a garbage dump for radioactive waste. We haven't launched a general campaign against nuclear power internationally. After all, I have also joined Sweden and Finland in the fight against technetium-99 – countries that are both nuclear nations, but where Finland is probably now taking steps to decide to set up a new nuclear power plant. We have to separate this, but in general the position of the Norwegian authorities is quite clear. We have chosen not to have nuclear power in Norway. We are also generally very sceptical about the UK reprocessing plant in Sellafield, which is not a necessary management of radioactive waste. Very familiar, it's only 5-10 pst. by countries which choose to send their radioactive waste for reprocessing. Sweden and Finland do not – a small exception for some specific waste in Sweden. Unfortunately, in October the British government opened up an MOX facility. The MOX plant is not primarily concerned with emissions, but there is a high risk associated with it, not least in the case of shipments of radioactive waste to the Sellafield plant. The main reason why we've concentrated on the technological emissions in the last six months is that the British government has to decide on recommendations from the Environmental Agency that will allow us to continue to release technetium-99 into the sea until 2006. We have a real impact on this. But I have to say, unfortunately, that it is a little longer canvas to bleach to get the United Kingdom to stop reprocessing than it is to get the United Kingdom not to open this MOX system. My commitment is also strong in that regard, but something has to be outsourced. I think that's the wisest part of the matter, too. So to the Halden reactor, some of the research programs that the Halden reactor operates are related to non-commercial activities, but to research on MOX fuels. MOX is currently involved in the decommissioning of nuclear weapons. It is also relevant in the context of processes such as in Sellafield. Because the question has been raised in connection with the Norwegian involvement in relation to the MOX factory and not in relation to technology, I asked the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy in January to conduct a review of this MOX research in Halden. I will probably receive this report during March, and it will not least go through the aspects pointed out by the representative of Langeland. The government will probably take a decision on the Halden reactor during the spring. But the question that I have raised concerns the small part in Halden that is related to the MOX research. I will come back to Stortinget with this. So that was the question of the Petroleum Fund. This was answered by the Minister of Finance in the Question Time last week. As I said, we haven't started a campaign against nuclear power internationally, although I'm very happy that we in Norway have chosen not to have nuclear power. That's a lot of good reasons not to have. However, with regard to the regulatory framework with which the Petroleum Fund is dealing, there is an extractive mechanism. The extraction mechanism is designed to be capable of withdrawing from projects that are contrary to international law related to weapons. Of course, the size is free at all times to enter and change the rules of the Petroleum Fund. But what the Minister of Finance said was that he has no plans to incorporate a clause into that legislation against investing in nuclear power plants. Then you'll have to assess whether this is good and sensible investment from the Petroleum Fund. But it is also, just to add it, a working group that is now reviewing the possibility of having a human rights dimension linked to the investment of the Petroleum Fund, and this working group will present its work during the spring. As I mentioned, Stortinget will also be able to continue working with other leaders in relation to investment. I really don't have anything more to say about this right now – except what the Minister of Finance said last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e599	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26.ana.ud2154e607	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no wetting basis is available.
