ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e54	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e61	In Ot.prp. No 81 for 2000–2001 the Government submitted a proposal for a law on notary publics. According to Document No. 11 for 2000–2001 the proposal was not addressed by the previous enlargement. In Ot.prp. No The proposal is re-examined, with a few legislative changes compared to the original proposal. In Norwegian law, notarius publicus is charged with several different tasks, including: to make marriages and to register partnerships and to have a general competence to provide notarial confirmations. The central thing is that what is confirmed is actual facts. At present, Norwegian legislation does not have general provisions specifying the notary's functions and competences or the legal effects of notarial transactions. These provisions are scattered in different laws and are partly also unlawfully enforceable. The proposal proposes a new law on notary publicus based on NOU 1999:22 Courts of First Instance, which concludes that notarial transactions should, as a general rule, remain at the discretion of the courts of first instance. The majority of the hearing bodies agreed to this, with the exception of Trondheim City Court and Inner Follo Court, which consider notarial tasks to be an administrative task which should be taken out of the courts. The Committee is of the opinion that, until now, competence should be vested in the courts. The applicable law is also that, among other things. The police officers in Rjukan, West Oppland and South Varanger have notarial competence. Due to the large distances in Finnmark and close contact with Russia, it would be a disadvantage for the population of South Varanger to have to travel 340 km to Vadsø and back for simple notarial confirmations. The Committee has therefore proposed that the Police Commissioner in the South Varanger District should be given a notary authority in matters such as marriages and the registration of partnerships, as well as in notarial cases in border-related matters. The Committee supports this as a proposal to avoid any doubt that this is the minimum of notarial competence of the South Varanger Police Master. It's up to the Department how to do this in practice. In the past, notarius publicus' tasks and competences have been governed by many different laws and regulations, and the legal status has been unwieldy both for those who are required to exercise their competence and for the public. The legislative proposal involves a collection of notary publics' competence in one law and contains no change in the substantive competence. The Committee recommends that Odelstingen join the legislative proposal, which will have no appreciable economic or administrative consequences. The legislative proposal is in line with the Committee's wish to simplify legislation and make it more transparent to users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e80	Current Notary Public Code is inconclusive. The main purpose of giving a new law is to remedy the uncertainty about the tasks of the notary and how they are to be carried out. Therefore, it is important not to modify the existing rules but to systematise and legislate the current law in a way that makes the rules more accessible. I believe that this is achieved by bringing together the basic rules of competence and procedure in one law and the corresponding regulation. The task of notary publication is carried out by several: By law, the task is assigned to judges in the courts of the districts, to Norwegian foreign officials and to the Svalbard official.The three police officers are notary publicus by means of royal resolutions.In some cases, the lieutenants and some others have limited notarial competence to carry out certain notarial transactions. In Norwegian law, notarius publicus is charged with a number of specific tasks, the most important of which is the carrying out of marriages and the registration of partnerships. The law will not alter these tasks. In addition, notarius publicus has general access to notarial confirmations. The most common are the confirmation of signature, copy confirmation and confirmation of competence. The rules for notarial confirmations are currently largely unregulated. In this area, the law will be the law of the current law. As at present, the King will have the power to provide detailed rules on notary's activities. This includes allocations of notarial authority and procedural rules. Nominations of notary authorities are currently provided by several royal resolutions and regulations, while the general rules of procedure are essentially to be found in unlawful practices. All of this will then be put together in a regulation, as the rapporteur has also presented it. Notary transactions are today with few exceptions free of charge. It is not proposed to extend the fee obligation and therefore the law will not have economic consequences of importance. The Judicial Committee wishes the Police Commissioner in the South Varanger Police District to continue to have a notary authority in matters relating to marriages and the registration of partnerships, as well as in notarial cases in border-related matters. The reasons are given, inter alia: being the ‘travel distance to the tribunal’. Thus, there appear to be practical considerations indicated, in particular relating to the travel distance in the case of marriages. I intend to follow up the decision of the Storting by assigning to the police officer of South Varanger authority as notary publicus in the regulation to be given in compliance with the law. For practical and legal reasons, this will be done by giving the police chief full competence as notary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e107	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 117]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e123	It sounded rather complicated when the president read out the heading of the position. I can assure you that the contents are several times simpler than the headline. In practice, it is a matter of having a compensation amount with an upper limit in the case of an oil tanker – which therefore also has oil in its tanks, not just as a fuel – that should be so unfortunate to go down and pollute. The compensation that can then be expected to be used to clean up this oil spill must be so large that it covers the actual costs. In view of the future, it is important that we do not get into a situation where the amount of liability is so low that it will not cover the actual costs. Therefore, it is suggested that this amount be increased by approx. 50 pst. It seems that a unanimous committee is a very good proposal, and we therefore recommend that Odelstingen give its consent to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e132	We have so far had no cases of large oil spills from oil tankers in Norway – fortunately. The oil spills we have had in Norway, which have been bad enough, have been related to other types of ships, and the adverse effects have been relatively small in comparison to the scenarios seen in many other countries with oil tankers that have been killed. The accident with the oil tanker ‘Erika’ outside France in December 1999 shows how catastrophic such an accident can be, both for the environment and for industries based on the coastal area in question. However, the fact that these kinds of oil spills can happen on our coasts one day is something we cannot exclude. And when that happens, we must be ready. It is of particular importance to ensure that the maritime liability rules for such oil spills are good, and in particular that the applicable limits of liability are at all times high enough. The oil spill problem is international and must be resolved in international forums. I am therefore very pleased that the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO, where Norway is a very active participant, has now adopted such an increase in the oil-silver liability proposed in the draft law under consideration by the Odelstinget and presented by the case-rapporteur. The proposal implies Norway agreeing that the limits of liability of the International IMO Conventions for Oil Pollution from Oil Tankers are significantly increased by a total of 50,37 p.m. I believe that a sufficient number of countries will support the IMO's decision to bring the amendments into force. In this case, the increase will be effective from 1 November 2003. Such an increase is necessary, and I am therefore very pleased that the Committee has given its support to the proposals made by the department. The proposal is a milestone, but no rest cushion. The Government will continue the ongoing work of Norway in the IMO to ensure that the international rules for the coverage of oil spills are at all times in such a development process as the problem area requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e149	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 118]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e165	This case was submitted to Odelstinget in the previous session, but was not dealt with. It is therefore necessary that the case now comes to a new examination. Retirement benefit is an early retirement scheme, which currently provides an old-age pension of 60 to 67 years. Fishing pensions may run alongside income from work in the profession, which for this age group will often be reduced compared to the previous one. The Ministry proposes to update the Fisheries Pensions Act, so that the rules that state that the social security offices are the local bodies for the pension scheme for fishermen are now repealed. One suggests that the Riksstrøgdeverket should continue to have the overall responsibility for the pension scheme and that it be legalised to provide rules on the daily administration by Royal Resolution. The guarantee fund for fishermen in Trondheim can thus continue with the day-to-day administration of the pension scheme. Furthermore, it is proposed to repeal the reaction rule to delete professional fishermen who do not pay the Member’s contribution to social security from Volume B of the number of fishermen. Instead, a rule is given that a claim for a member’s premium is a periodic penalty payment for outlays. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, otherwise refers to Ot.prp. No 99 for 2000-2001 and support the proposal for a law amending Law No 28 June 1957. 12 on the pension benefits for fishermen, etc., and have no other comments. I expect the Progress Party will present its comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e181	As will be seen from our remarks, the main concern of the Progress Party in this matter is that the scheme should be made on a voluntary basis. We point out that voluntary solutions in this area have worked in the past and that it is also a cost-effective aspect of the recovery of small amounts. We will also show that the Progress Party earlier in Stortinget has taken up the situation of fishermen who are disabled before the age of 60. We'll do that again in this setting. I would like to stress that the Progress Party is a supporter of the repeal of Section 1, second paragraph, and, as will be seen from the suspension, we propose a new wording for this paragraph. Otherwise, I refer you to the vote and take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e192	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has addressed the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e195	The Fisheries Retirement Scheme is a scheme financed by fishermen themselves through the production fee. Against this background, the Coastal Party is opposed to coordination between fishing pension and disability pension from public security. Therefore, the Coastal Party will support proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, which assumes that fishermen who are disembarked before the age of 60 are reimbursed a premium to the pension scheme for fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e200	The proposals for amendments to the Law on Retirement for Fishermen, which Odelstinget is dealing with today, were presented by the Stoltenberg Government and continued by this government. I agree with the proposals and I am pleased to note that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also supports them. As shown by the proposal and the suspension, the pension scheme for fishermen is a compulsory early retirement scheme for persons with fishing and fishing as their main occupation. The scheme is financed by the industry itself, but the government guarantees the pensions. By eliminating fishermen who do not pay pension contributions from the number of fishermen, the link between the pension contribution and other social schemes and the rights of fishermen is removed. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party propose that the pension scheme for fishermen be voluntary. In my opinion, critical attention should be given to the views of fishermen themselves. Retirement benefits are compulsory today, and fishermen’s organisations want it to continue as it is. The public body which is in the process of assessing the pension rights of fishermen shall, inter alia: consider a transition to a funded plan of vesting individual rights. It would be natural to consider whether the scheme should be compulsory or not when the sample is available and has been consulted. Both seafarers and fishermen have early retirement schemes. Some sailors have also had some time as professional fishermen, and I am pleased that the possibility of adding up membership time in these schemes is extended, so that a fisherman's pension can be granted for membership time down to 52 weeks in such cases. With regard to the proposal for the Progress Party to refund the pension premium to untapped fishermen, I will once again refer to the sample that is at work. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess the coordination with non-pension from public interest. The government will also come back to this issue in the context of the examination of the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e217	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e225	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e323	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e333	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e344	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee shall be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e393	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e403	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e410	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose changes to the pension scheme for fishermen so that fishermen who are unfit before the age of 60 are reimbursed a premium to the pension scheme for fishermen.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e436	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e527	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e625	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19-lower.ana.ud1097e635	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
