ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e42	The proposal concerns various changes to the Training Act and its related regulations. The bill follows up Storting's decision that the primary school subject should be called Christianity, religion and life views, cf. Inner. S. No 240 for 2000-2001. Furthermore, a change is proposed to transfer responsibility for early schoolchildren from county municipalities to municipalities. This is to allow for greater coordination. However, the main element of the case is the question of who should be responsible for the training of patients in medical institutions after the country has now assumed responsibility for them. Should the county authorities continue to be responsible, or should it go to the state after the hospital reform? An overall committee indicates that there is a need to clarify whether the State or county should have the future legal, professional and financial responsibility for the training of patients. This has been assessed in a relatively broad consultation round. As a result, 25 of the agencies are in favour of State accountability and 24 are in favour of the county being responsible as at present. This means ten of the county councils and training organisations. Several agencies emphasise that new health businesses should first find their form and have a good grip on the health challenges before considering imposing training responsibilities on them. The majority of the Committee, following an overall assessment, agrees that the county council will continue to fulfil the right to provide special pedagogical assistance, to provide primary and secondary education for clients in social and medical institutions. Today, the county organises training activities slightly differently. There are examples of the municipality in which the institution operates all teaching and of the fact that the county through cooperation agreements buys this service. The majority consider it important to continue good and flexible solutions. Prolongation of today's system will also not create the need for new administrative units. There is a point in this case that the same level of administration should be responsible for the training in both social and medical institutions, because some patients are students both. The majority have further concluded that a full review of the training activities of the medical institutions, including the institutions under chapters 221 and 243, is being carried out and that the responsibility under the Education Act for the showering of school children is transferred from the county municipalities to the municipalities. As mentioned at the outset, Odelstinget will today follow up the Stortingen’s decision to call the CRL subject ‘Christianity, religious and life views’. The Labour Party proposed in Innst. S. No 240 for 2000-2001 that the subject should be called «Faith and Vision of Life». As we did not get a majority for this, the Labour Party takes note of the decision of the majority of the population, and does not promote any amendment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e57	As the rapporteur has well explained, the case concerns three changes to the Training Act: the question of which body should be responsible for the training of patients in the former municipal health institutions, the change of the name of the KRL subject and the transfer of responsibility for showering by pre-school children from the county municipality to the municipality. The right is in line with the Committee's recommendation for a decision. We agree that the responsibility for training in medical institutions remains with the county. The main reason for our position is that the county councils have the general responsibility for secondary education, which have professional competence and a fully developed apparatus to handle this area. It is important not to build new administrative units in order to take responsibility for a matter which has already been dealt with through existing apparatus. It is also important that county responsibilities will ensure greater coherence between the training provided before, during and after the institution's stay, i.e. the best possible provision for each student. For the right, it is important that this be organised to make it the best for individual life. From the Right side, we therefore see no reason to change the liability that is today. A majority of the county councils that have expressed their views on the matter also agree with this conclusion. When it comes to the question of thunderstorms by pre-school children, we agree from the Right that this is transferred to the municipalities. This will be in line with the financial liability principle, and a clear majority of the municipalities which have given their opinion in the hearing on the matter at St.meld. No 31 for 2000-2001, has also agreed that municipalities should be given this responsibility. However, I would like to refer to the majority comment of the Committee that refers to the Sem Declaration, which states that the Cooperation Government will make proposals to ‘transfer responsibility for school kissing for primary school students to the municipalities’. In order to obtain the total cost of changes in school structure — most often school closure — such a transfer of responsibility will be important. Since the poor economy is the most common reason for changing the school structure, it must be important that the total cost is made visible, and we believe that this will be better ensured by also adding the school shower responsibility for primary school students to the municipalities. The majority assume that the Government will make proposals as soon as possible for the necessary amendment of the Training Act also at this point in line with the Sem Declaration, which was presented at the time of the government change, and we believe that this should be done relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e68	The applicant's rapporteur has given a good account of the substance of the matter. One of the main elements of the case is related to the municipality. The county is an administrative body such as the Progress Party per. today is alone about wanting to remove. The responsibility for a number of tasks has been shifted in the last year from the county municipalities to the state, while training in medical institutions seems to be a responsibility to be added to the county municipalities in the future, so that they continue to have the right to life. It is with some wonder that we record that the Right is in this majority. The majority of the Committee uses as a justification that the county has knowledge and competences that are so much better than the State could provide. The opinion of the majority seems to have been resolved fundamentally and better suited to seigpining rather than a precise and simple grip. A decision to abolish the county municipality will clarify the responsibilities and employment of the training for both students and employees. In the view of the Progress Party, what the majority do is to give artificial respiration in order to maintain the organisationally unnecessary intermediate in the administration even a little longer, while looking for other good ideas that will prevent the necessary efficiency and cost-rationalisation. The employees and their knowledge are the same whether they have the county or the state as an employer. It is not that the State cannot build a strong professional environment to take care of the teaching of medical institutions. The county is and will continue to be an abominable and wasted administrative link. What we may agree on is that a complete review of the training activities of the medical institutions, including the institutions under chapters 221 and 243, is being carried out. The proposal in Ot.prp. No 30 that the State may prescribe training in individual cases is also so obvious that it should have been unnecessary to point this out in the cancellation. If the state can't impose, it would be very interesting to know who can ultimately control the training. It is important for the Progress Party that the legal certainty of users is fully and safely ensured. But today, unfortunately, the law appears inadequate and deficient, because the legal certainty of the users does not seem to have been cared for by either the state, the county councils or the municipalities. At best, this is a glitch from a majority when the law was passed. But since the will and the ability to correct seems to be far behind, such an assessment is quite optimistic. The party believes that the right to impose already exists, because children cannot be obliged to receive training – even if they do not learn so much, rather to read and write. It is reasonably clear that qualitative content and guarantees of acquiring the simplest basic knowledge are a lottery in different schools. If you get a committed and competent teacher, a lot is won. Thank you for having many good, committed and competent teachers! If you are not lucky enough with the teacher or the management of the school to which you are ordered, your child’s legal security is at risk, even because the law is designed in such a way that it is the school’s employees and educational-psychological service and not the student’s supervisors to define which level of training it is reasonable to work against. In the case of cover for cloud expenditure, this may be done after distance assessment or as an independent hazard assessment. This seems to be a good thing, but practice shows that the concept of distance is often narrowed both widely and widely. Some municipalities interpret the law so that the distance is counted from door to door, others interpret the law so that the distance is valid from the nearest stop to the school's nearest stop. If a student, for example, has two kilometres to go to the nearest bus stop, such an interpretation would seem pointless to parents based on the distance concept, and even more pointless when the hazard assessment is not included at all. The concept of danger is also interpreted differently from the municipality to the municipality. When primary schools are closed, it is clear that if the financial responsibility for showering by school children is transferred to the municipalities as a whole, many of the economic arguments used by the municipalities to close down will fall away. Then the administration as a case manager must see the real costs in the context. This picture is not complete, for the total cost of society, for example: extra costs and extra time spent by parents in school leisure arrangements, parents' meetings, etc. in relation to the school, do not be made visible at all. The Progress Party had hoped that the sitting government would quickly promote the necessary legislative proposals, so that a fragmentation of the legal work – as we are dealing with today – had not occurred. The wishes and actions are mentioned and underlined in the Sem Declaration, which states that proposals should be made to transfer responsibility for school kissing for primary school students to the municipalities. In its programme, the Progress Party has a completely different model of school and training from that for which the majority are spokespersons. The model is based on quality, quality assurance and the legal certainty of the student, and on the fact that the necessary money to provide high-quality training follows the individual student. In addition, for many years the Progress Party has had a very strong desire to remove the county municipalities as an artificial and unnecessary organisational intermediary. The Progress Party will therefore be opposed to the changes in the Odelstingsproposition on the paragraphs of the Training Act that substantiate the responsibilities and the basis of existence of the county. This applies to §§ 13-2 and 13-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e97	The Christian People's Party is in the majority position in today's case, and I'll just briefly justify it. In the Christian People's Party, we agree that county councils should continue to fulfil the right to provide training for clients in social and medical institutions. That's how it is today. This is a continuation, and therefore will not be new. However, it is essential that county responsibilities are likely to provide better coherence between training provision provided before, during and after institutionalisation, thus improving the link with the ordinary school system. It's important for the student, and in line with the desire to keep the user in focus. As I see it, I am a little surprised that the Progress Party is making this debate a matter of the future of the county council. Otherwise, I agree with what the rapporteur has said about this. The second question concerns the responsibility for brushing up pre-school children under the Training Act, whether it is also to be transferred to municipalities. The Christian People's Party agrees with that. Here we have to see it in the context of the desire to transfer responsibility for all school kisses to the municipalities, as stated by the political basis of the Cooperation Government, the Sem Declaration. The Christian People's Party believes that it will make it easier to see all the social costs associated with the closure of primary schools, when we get responsibility over to the municipalities. Here I am pleased to record that the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party are in complete agreement. In the case of the KRL subject, we support the amendment, because it gives the subject a more comprehensive name.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e108	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e116	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e229	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e266	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-26-lower.ana.ud349e276	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
