ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e76	Can the President ask for a withdrawal in silence? Please, Councillor Børge Burnde!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e81	Thank you for that, I hope not all retreat in silence. It is very gratifying that the bulk of the population joins the Government's proposal for a more offensive climate policy. This approach is historic because it means that Norway is rapidly preparing for the Kyoto Agreement and implementing national emission reductions. The fourth year’s report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change clearly shows the need for action. Man-made climate change is probably already a fact. The climate is getting warmer, wetter and wilder. According to measurements, 1998 was by far the warmest year on earth, with 2001 being second place. But 1999 and 2000 were also warm years. Now we hear that the average temperature of the earth in recent times has never been as high as in the first quarter of this year. This is very worrying, and is signals of a globe with rising fever. In addition to the risk of more rainfall and extreme weather, there is cause for concern about climate change in Arctic regions in our areas. Not only is the polar bear threatened by the ice cap pulling northwards and the polaris perhaps disappearing, but also the Gulf Stream may be affected by climate change. Nevertheless, we face the greatest human challenges in poor countries. Countries that have contributed little to man-made climate change will paradoxically note the greatest consequences. 800 million people are starving, and 20 pst. of the world's population lacks access to clean water. Climate change does not improve this situation. This is primarily the case for poor people, who have little opportunity to move or adapt in other ways. However, we can still limit changes by cutting our emissions, and we can reduce the adverse effects of climate change in Norway and other countries through adaptation measures. The Government wanted Norwegian ratification to take place so early that Norway could contribute to the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol at the Johannesburg Summit in August/September. I would like to pay tribute to the Stortinget who gave priority to this matter, so that Norway, as one of the first industrialised countries, could ratify the Protocol on 30 May. Later, the EU and Japan have also followed suit. With the positive signals we have from Russia and Eastern Europe, I still have a good hope that the agreement will come into force during the year. It was a strong setback for international climate work when last year the United States decided to stand outside the Kyoto Protocol. Fortunately, most other countries have opted for this commitment together, and the Protocol remains an important instrument for reducing the emissions of these countries. The protocol has a forward-looking content – with differentiated obligations, international quota trade and project-based cooperation. The promise of a more offensive climate policy is an important part of the policy base of the Co-operation Government. The proposals for national policies promoted by the Workers' Party last year were not sufficient. Therefore, the additional notification is more concrete and offensive as regards actions in Norway up to the first commitment period of the Kyoto Agreement from 2008. In line with the Sem Declaration, one of the proposals in the Additional Communication is an early national allowance system. With this in place from 2005, Norway will have committed to all greenhouse gas emissions where possible. For more than 10 years, emissions from large parts of industry have been exempted from instruments such as CO2 taxes, while other sectors have had to pay. For the Government, it has been important to design instruments that both ensure the implementation of sensible emission reduction measures and that do not result in unnecessary closures and relocations of industries that will be profitable when the Kyoto Agreement enters into force. The proposed quota system takes account of these considerations. The allowances will be allocated free of charge, the starting point for the total allocation being a 20 pst reduction. in relation to 1990 emissions, adjusted for closures and re-establishments. If industry achieves the emission target, the allowance system itself will not incur any costs for the companies. The measures implemented by the enterprises could cost money, but these costs will be the same regardless of the instrument used by the authorities to achieve them. Industry itself says that there is room for further emission reductions in the sector. Security valves have also been introduced into the system in the form of an infringement fee and opening for the use of allowances approved under the Kyoto Protocol also in the previous allowance system. The use of the CDM will contribute to technology transfer and investment in developing countries. In order to ensure a real climate impact, we need to impose very strict requirements on the follow-up and control of actions under this mechanism, to which a majority of the Committee has agreed. An allowance system is a market-based solution in which businesses themselves will find the best solutions for how to take emission reductions – with a reward for creativity and effort. The use of the allowance system also refers to the long-term allowance system for 2008-2012, which was proposed by the previous government and on which there is broad agreement. The government wants to design the allocation and other details of the system in close dialogue with the industry, and I am pleased that this process has the support of a majority in Stortinget. While the quota system is an essential part of a more ambitious climate policy, the Government also provides for concrete action in a number of other areas in relation to the initial notification in order to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions by 2008. We want more climate-friendly instruments in the waste sector. The government will apply the final treatment tax to waste in a way that is also adapted to climate policy. It will also be considered a ban on the landfilling of all today's degradable waste, which is degrading and emitting methane gas, when it would be much more appropriate to treat it in a different way. The Government will facilitate new solutions for the production and use of energy. The government's objective is to reduce the use of mineral oils for heating by 25 pst. for the period 2008 to 2012, compared to the average for the period 1996 to 2000. In a short time, the government will also present an action plan for waterborne heat. The efficiency of power production on the base is low. There is therefore a significant potential for reduced emissions through power input from countries. During this morning's meeting I noticed that the Labour Party in this debate is trying to ride two horses. It is claimed that the Government’s proposals entail excessive costs for industry and that the Government has too low a level of ambition in its actions towards industry. The working party's alternative is not crystal clear, but since already abandoned industry is included in the emissions target while the target is not to be reached before the end of the period, this is clearly less ambitious than the Government's approach. It is striking that the Workers' Party less than a year after they made their own climate announcement, criticises this government for being a little ambitious. As I have gone through, point by point we have put forward proposals for concrete measures that involve a more offensive climate policy than the workers' party government has led. The fact that the Workers' Party in its opposition situation is struggling with new promises and money without interference, we are beginning to get used to. However, such conduct is not credible. When the Kyoto Protocol enters into force, the main challenge for the international community will be to establish a global climate regime that also limits emissions from the United States and developing countries. The government is working to launch a negotiation process as soon as possible that could lead to new international agreements based on the Climate Panel reports. It is urgent – and will require a great deal of effort – to have a regime all over the world sees itself serving. In Kyoto, there were ten years left until the beginning of the first commitment period, 2008–2012. Today, there are only ten years left until 2013 – and we have not yet begun to talk about how the commitments will be designed. The government wants Norway to be on the international front to provide the basis for a further reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. We will not achieve this without demonstrating for ourselves that we are able to pursue a national policy that provides emission reductions. The support of the Storting majority for the more offensive climate policy of the Government is a good thing to have for a Norwegian Environment Minister in the international negotiations we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e133	Having heard the speech to the Minister for the Environment, I have to say that it seems to me that the most important thing for the Minister for the Environment is to try to create the impression that the Government has a better environmental policy than the Workers' Party. That's wrong. We think the proposal from the Government, which SV supports, is too ambitious, while at the same time it will take the break of parts of the process industry. Let's go a little bit further into the seams. The central question must be: Will the government's arrangement lead to a better environment in the early phase? The answer to that is no, in our opinion, because there is no guarantee that there will be a reduction in emissions, but there will most likely be fewer jobs in the industry we are talking about. That's how several of the companies we're talking about here won't be able to take a 20 pst. reduction without closures and, where appropriate, creations of enterprises in other countries that are not as concerned with the environment as we are. It is also the case that the regime of the Government will allow them to choose to buy freely through cheap measures in developing countries. Is that good environmental policy? It is also such that they can choose to pay the infringement fee, as the signals indicate that the government will set very low if they do not have the power to pay the claim for 20 pst. reduction. Is that good environmental policy? And the argument that it's important to practice in quota trading before 2008 seems to me to fall on its own unfairness. Bright Holtsmark in the Statistical Central Bureau has said that no one needs to train to pay taxes, and characterises the proposal as a matter of symbolism that lacks professional justification. I must say that I agree. In addition, in this setting, there is a wide range of other measures that government parties choose to vote against – measures that would have led to a better environment and that would have led to a better climate. My simple question to the Minister for the Environment is as follows: Why is it so important for this government to sacrifice jobs in the process industry for a scheme that is in addition no guarantee of reduced emissions, i.e. a better climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e146	This additional message represents the first crossroads where we will now also show nationally that we are willing to follow up the strict international commitments we have agreed to. The government thought that the previous government's climate communication did not contain enough action. We have put in place several measures that were not there, in relation to electrification, in relation to oil-fire conversion, and we have also put in place measures in the waste sector, which reduce national greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, we have proposed a national quota system that is carefully designed, which takes into account the competitiveness of the industry and also takes into account the fact that the process industry remains in Norway. However, we have had a challenge in relation to the EU and ESA, which is the competition authority in the EU, in view of the fact that this part of industry has not been subject to a CO2 tax. We have made a proposal to assess whether this part of the industry should reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 pst. The working party fell off. In Stortingen, the Co-operation Government has been supported by this national quota system, with the votes of SV. This is a necessary measure to provide a more offensive climate policy and also to have a climate action against this sector. But as the setting also says, this government guarantees that we will design the system in close cooperation with the industry. There shall be no loss of industrial jobs due to this system. But we get a more offensive climate policy by also providing this part of industry with greenhouse gas reductions. The attempt of the working party to ride two horses by believing that their system should involve major greenhouse gas reductions while not affecting the industry falls on their own unfairness. I think it's actually been pretty well revealed earlier here today – actually by the Progress Party. This system will not have to deliver until 2007, while our system will deliver as early as 2005, when the quota obligation begins.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e153	Listening to the exchange of lines between the Council of State and the Workers' Party on who has the best industrial policy, it is, at least for me, a rather strange debate. I said in my post that the working party's quota system is about as bad as the SV and the government parties have cooked together. What we have noticed along the way in the process of climate communication is the dialogue that the Council of State has had with industry. That dialogue has taken place through the media, and there has been talk of each of its languages by the Council of State and industry, and the Council of State has probably spoken past the industry. It is clear that it is worrying for us who have a sense of business that there is no better dialogue between a government council and industry. Fortunately, the government parties have also realised this, because that must be the basis for promoting the I proposal. It simply requires the Council of State to engage in a dialogue with industry so as not to endanger serious harm and the loss of valuable jobs. Then I could imagine, as I was in the line to SV, that there are some leads here, among other things. as regards competitiveness and the infringement fee, and the nature of the scheme in the EU and the possibility to connect. If these leaders make it impossible to put in place a strange quota system or a curious levy, will the Norwegian Council of State then leave industry alone and not plague them with any more strange measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e166	The representative of Korsberg may have heard at the beginning of my speech that I referred to the climate challenge as the greatest environmental challenge that we may have ever faced globally. Of course, when faced with such an environmental challenge, one can lean back and do nothing, as the Progress Party chooses to do, or do what the Government proposes, that we should also try to deliver greenhouse gas reductions nationally in Norway. That's what this message is. And then I've said that in relation to the process industry, which has no climate action today, this system should be carefully designed and also so that no industrial jobs will be lost in Norway because of this greenhouse gas regime and this quota system. I think we're going to have a very good dialogue with the industry when this big business decision is available. It will be good for Norwegian industry, and there will also be a way to prepare for what comes after 2008. It will also be good in relation to climate policy. But it is interesting that the Progress Party has now become so involved in the competitive sector. It's not long since I read in some newspaper that it really wasn't that dangerous if we lost any thousand jobs in the competitive sector. I also have to say that the phase-in of oil billions through the public sector may not be exactly the right way to deal with this part of industry. In other areas, however, the government parties and the Progress Party stand together in relation to the fact that this year this industry will receive DKK 12 billion in tax relief. Last year, there were 12 billion dollars in tax incentives to deal with. Of course, with regard to the comment that has now been made on a proposal, that the Government should have an open and good dialogue with industry, it is in agreement with the Government that it is designed in the Committee. I have no problem dealing with this. It's a matter of course, and it's actually in the message as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e177	SV is pleased that a national quota system has now been put in place since 2005, and is particularly pleased that the use of gas is within the system. In addition, we got both the Government and the Workers' Party to participate in several of the SV's proposals for measures that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions – i.e. before 2005 – and create many new jobs. These include the electrification of the base, the requirements for air or water-borne heat in all new buildings over 1000 m2, the placing on biofuels and measures for energy recovery in industry. But SV also had many other proposals for action to reduce emissions. What we are less satisfied with is that the government parties have no longer extended to support SV's many early action. When government parties were unable to support the Workers’ Party’s and SV’s proposal to introduce a support scheme for new renewable energy equivalent to half the electricity charge, this is very regrettable, not least in the light of the EU Renewable Energy Directive currently under assessment by the Government. If we stick to the EU's goal of increasing the share of renewable energy, we will not avoid introducing support schemes for such energy production. And pending the announced green certification market, it will be very good climate policy to introduce these temporary support schemes. But it was an outstretched hand that the government parties chose not to accept. My questions to the Council of State are therefore: When will the Government come back with proposals for a stronger commitment to new, renewable energy? What kind of strategy does the Government have to bring the Budget Comrade Progress Party into such a commitment? The point is that the money for all good purposes is to be distributed, or rather not distributed; then it is the climate hosted in the Progress Party that is to support under the government's climate exposure. I cannot escape the idea that this is the real reason for the lack of support for the SV's many offensive climate action by the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e188	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for the good work he has done in the committee. Of course, I'm also glad, on behalf of the government parties, that we have now got through the national quota system. This means much that Norway should be able to achieve the objectives set out in the Kyoto Agreement, demonstrable progress before 2005. It does not help to have a result in 2007, we need to start delivering as early as 2005. It's very important. So it's true that even though SV has had an outstretched hand, we haven't found each other at all points, and that would have been very surprising. But I wouldn't be so pessimistic if I had been SV, in relation to what is also possible in an environmental cooperation with the Progress Party. Although the Progress Party is not exactly the most offensive in the climate issue, the government parties have good experience in making a compromise with them in connection with the revision this year, as we managed to continue, for example. an increase of 35 million in the protection against the coniferous forest. kr in addition to the original budget of the Government. As far as renewable energy is concerned, the Sem Declaration states that on the day of a CO2-free technology, with the support of an equivalent electricity charge, this will also apply to renewable energy sources. I notice that SV would like us to grant at least half of the electricity charge in support of this renewable energy as soon as possible, and I take that with me. But this is a matter that needs to be discussed in relation to the annual budgets, and that is not the only budget input that has come from the Storting to the Government in the last few days. We're going to sit down and make a list, and see how we're going to make this fit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e198	I really think that everyone is very concerned about succeeding in climate policy. In today's edition of the Evening Post, in the article «Clear, ready, climate», journalist Agnar Kaarbø comments on the work on climate communication. He calls for reasoning about today's fossil energy consumption – coal, oil and gas – and he presents both a benevolent and a less benevolent interpretation of the work. The benevolent interpretation – I like it best – is like this: ‘Technology developments in the form of less energy-intensive cars, environmental requirements for housebuilders and gas power stations which, to date, unknownly deflect annoying CO2 emissions, make Kyoto work a real challenge.’ From this point of view, I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on the following issue: Now that the process industry is to be given such a strong focus in terms of quotas, is not the sector that is facing major increases in emissions, that is, the petroleum sector? Should it not have had more stringent requirements? I also want to add: what about the Snow White extension? In relation to it, there will also be quite a lot of CO2 emissions. Actually, I have to add that it is only the Center Party that could ask this question, because we have said no to Snow White, and we have said no to the early quota system of the Government and the SV. Now we can easily pair with that we say no to everything! [[Laughter]] But I will then hurry to say that the position we have taken here will protect both the environment and the existing industrial enterprises in the districts. I meet the views of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e210	There were many questions at once. The representative, Enger, has a very sympathetic way of presenting his message, so I can avoid saying what I have felt in the last few days about the Central Party's environmental policy. I think, among other things: in the debates we have had on national parks and civil protection, etc., but I will deal with them in the best possible way. In the case of the petroleum sector, it is the case that it is subject to a CO2 tax. It is one of the world’s highest CO2 taxes, and compared to a reduction requirement, which the process industry is now faced with, the CO2 tax is much stronger. If you asked the process industry if it would have had CO2 tax instead of allowances, I think the national quota system would have appeared to be very comfortable. The government's position is that we should continue the Norwegian CO2 tax until 2008, when we get the Kyoto system in place. In fact, this CO2 tax has been so high that it has led to a number of measures on the base of the oil sector to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental investments have been chosen instead of paying taxes. Then, in the future, we will see how this dialogue with industry becomes with regard to the national quota system. I feel that it is important – and I will also help – to put some of the fight that we have had in the last few months behind us, and that we must try to achieve a broad consensus in the Storting regarding the design of this national quota system when the proposition comes. There are also many clarifications in relation to the EU, and there will be a good dialogue with the implicated actors in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e219	What the Minister for the Environment is now saying in relation to industry is not entirely suspended. The Minister for the Environment said instead that no industrial workplaces would be lost. And he goes on to say that the scheme is carefully designed and takes into account the competitive industry. The problem is that the industry does not experience the government's proposal in this way or the reality that Børge Burnde describes. What we have been demonstrated in this matter is a great distrust from the Government to the industry. There is a total lack of dialogue with a very important industry in Norway, and it is an industry that has proven in practice that it takes the environmental challenges seriously, through voluntary agreements in terms of sulphur and aluminium, to address something. They have told us that they are also willing to take their toes this time, and they are willing to take more than what the Government proposes. Does Børge Burnde think that Managing Director Harald Grande at TTI is also wrong when he says that Regeringa's proposal will mean the hook on the door and 200 jobs less? What does Børge Burnde say to the Salt Post leader recently, entitled «Rights are not an industrial party». It goes on to say: ‘... to reduce CO2 emissions by introducing a tax that breaks down the most environmentally friendly industry, it is and will become completely wrong environmental policy’.» Are they also wrong? I have to say that I understand very well that the Minister of the Environment's party traps in this house feel the need to impose on Børge Brende, through a Roman decision, to engage in a dialogue with the industry. We have to vote in favour. But the question is: Does Børge Burnde think that everyone else, including the whole industry and Bellona, is wrong when they say that the Government's proposal means closures, or is it such that the Government is now on the glide away from its proposal and provides a guarantee that no work is to be laid off? In that case, it's a happy day today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e235	I am a little in doubt if the representative Brustad listened to my reply to the representative, Mr Enger, where I, in turn, stretched out a hand in relation to the fact that we in the Stortinget should also sit down and look at a design of a national quota system that, as I also said in my first post, will not involve the closure of jobs. Job closures occur in the process industry. The magnesium production of Hydro on the High Island is decommissioned, but it is not due to the quota system. I think we can manage to have offensive climate policies and make demands on the industry, but within the framework of the industry's ability to maintain its competitiveness. I think you can expect a slightly more constructive attitude from the Labour Party, and actually a little more honest attitude, because you're trying to ride two horses at once. In fact, I believe that the Workers' Party here appears to be the emperor's new clothes. On the one hand, we claim that our system should reduce greenhouse gases by 30 pst. in the process industry, and that it is much more offensive, but at the same time no one should notice these reductions to the Workers' Party. At the same time, it is said that it is not possible to implement any more reasonable reductions in industry when the Government proposes 20 pst. reduction. But 30 pst., as the Workers' Party suggests, it is completely possible to do. The point is, this isn't hanging on to anything. The working party has resigned from the process when the Storting for the first time received a concrete follow-up to the Kyoto agreement. It has acted as a stifler in relation to the government's efforts to establish a constructive dialogue with industry and to bring about national greenhouse gas reductions. Instead of contributing constructively, such as: SV has done, the Working Party has signed up and has not contributed. I had hoped that we could get a broad consensus here in Stortinget that Norway should be early in ratifying, that we should be a driver of international climate work, and that we should also reduce nationally. Instead, the Workers' Party has chosen to volunteer, play a game and act like the emperor's new clothes. It's very disappointing, and I didn't expect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e244	The cord shift is over. Both yesterday evening and today, there are some people who take on a vocabulary that the President does not think is particularly useful for the future political debate and for the relationship between magnification and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e249	Today will go into history as a sad day for Norwegian industry. Trade unions have protested, industrial leaders have warned, but despite this, the bulk of population has turned the deaf ear to and will today adopt a national quota regime for greenhouse gas emissions. This without looking at other countries with which we compete, and what kind of measures they might take before 2008. The majority of the population clearly believe that the most important thing for Norway is to be the best in the class. It is more important to pursue unilateral Norwegian symbol policies without taking into account the consequences. Obviously, it does not matter to the majority if we are to have any industrial production in Norway at all in the future, and unfortunately it does not matter whether tens of thousands of jobs can be lost. The same majority also close their eyes to the fact that the only thing they can achieve with this symbolism policy is that large parts of industrial production are being moved out of the country. We all know that most of the industrialized countries with which we compete have a completely different energy production than the one we have, and what kind of environmental benefit do we get? Absolutely no environmental benefit. Instead, we have brought about a deterioration in the situation. As I said at the outset, industry has warned strongly against a unilateral Norwegian quota regime. Instead, they have come with an extensive hand and offered to enter into agreements on emission reductions, which we have good experience with, among other things. in the case of sulphur. But no then, injunctions and bans are the only right way, according to the majority in this Chamber. Industry has already implemented many cost-effective reductions in so-called greenhouse gases. We in the Progress Party trust that the Norwegian industry itself is best suited to assess the costs and effects of further actions. At least Norwegian industry should be allowed to make full use of the Kyoto mechanisms, so that it could also invest in so-called climate action abroad. It would often have been cheaper to invest in such measures abroad rather than in modern industry in Norway. The Progress Party will not be involved in anti-competitive measures that weaken the Norwegian industry. We want to ensure Norwegian business long-term and predictable framework conditions, framework conditions that are no worse than in the countries with which we compete. It's sad to see that this obviously doesn't have a very high priority for any other party in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e262	The threat of climate change is perhaps the greatest challenge facing mankind in the future. Therefore, in our choice of climate policy instruments, it is most important to facilitate the reduction of emissions. Unfortunately, we are not on the right track with the majority position here today. On the action side, the majority position is for puzzles, and for industry, the majority is completely lost. I'm going to focus in my post on the last, certainly to the surprise of several. Industrialists, business managers and trade unions have given clear information. Links between the right and SV will lead to company closures. This will lead to increased emissions globally, and it will hit District Norway and the export industry very hard. We live as lotto millionaires in Norway today. Everyone should see that we are in a Japanese era where tax relief and symbolism policies are leading issues in public opinion. During the political strike in the Norwegian Chemical Workers' Association on 6 June, the case-rapporteur said that Norway is so rich that we have to afford to be a leading country for the implementation of the quota system. Who's rich? Is it the companies that are currently dealing with red numbers? There are, of course, these majority will impose new costs in the form of allowances. Yes, Norway as a nation is a rich country. We are thanks to our export industry. I would like to point out that the Ekofisk field has earned approx. NOK 1 100 billion in its lifetime – a gigantic sum of which the nation has benefited. At the same time, the process industry has had two to three times higher revenues in the country during the same period. We know that our oil and gas resources are not renewable resources. We also know that further processing our water resources is an inexhaustible source, at least as long as it rains. It may actually seem that not everyone has understood this. Industry has a major challenge in this regard. They must make the Minister for the Environment and the majority realize that Norway as a nation and the world community are serving to have this industry in a well-developed and high-tech country. The working party has had a thorough and comprehensive discussion of the matter. We've listened, we've worked, we've concluded and come up with solutions that will take care of the jobs in the industry, and that will be, to the most extent, the better for the environment. We have a higher level of ambition than the majority, but we're using a sustainable model. We know that jobs, economics, belongings and the environment are related. If the Norwegian melting industry chooses to move out of the country, emissions will increase dramatically. Not only the climate emissions, but mercury, tar and sulphur emissions will increase. Does that make sense in relation to the environment? We know that when a wild closure of the industry encounters resistance, when people stand without work, when people are forced to move without having to sell their houses, when the demonstration trains stand on the lion's tray, then they will be held responsible for those who want such a policy. The Minister for the Environment has chosen to focus on international environmental issues. He has attacked other countries in a way that they have felt uncomfortable. We're supposed to be offensive, so that's good. But the fact that the same Minister for the Environment understands so little of the impact of national environmental measures is surprising. It should surprise more than the Workers' Party that today's decision obliges the Government to cooperate with business. One should at least believe that the ‘fashion’ right did not need such a call.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e288	We have now had a number of articles related to the two communications on Norwegian climate policy. There has been a lot of discussion about which government is most ambitious in climate policy, and there has been considerable disagreement about instruments to achieve the objectives set by the communications. There has been a lot of black paint, and with strong speech. I'd like to take a slightly different angle of incidence. I think it's important for our sponsors, the voters, to understand what's central in this discussion. In my opinion, this is the following: A very robust majority, all except the Progress Party, sees the seriousness of climate change. Neither of us knows with certainty the extent to which anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions affect the environment, but the majority is based on the UN Panel on Climate Change and the reports they produce, and the majority want to follow the precautionary principle. It will be irresponsible to wait and see. The majority agree that it is important to implement measures as soon as possible and do not wait for the Kyoto Agreement which, hopefully, will enter into force from 2008. The majority agree that industry needs to implement measures at this early stage and reduce emissions by around 20 pst. in relation to 1990. The working party has set the number to 30 pst., but the comparison stops. At best, the reduction of the Workers' Party is about the same as the government parties and SV add up. At the same time, the majority agree that the measures imposed on the industry must not lead to the imposition of burdens on enterprises that will be viable under the Kyoto regime to the point of moving them out or shutting them down in this early period. A large majority agree that despite significant emissions, the Norwegian process industry is among the world’s top companies in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. Decommissioning or relocation of activities will therefore not serve the environment but increase emissions. Climate challenges are global! Why do I take this angle of incidence and point to what a large majority agrees on, instead of continuing the discussion about what we disagree about? I think it is because it is necessary to demonstrate to the Norwegian people and ourselves in the Storting that greenhouse gas emissions are serious, that the Stortinget believes it is absolutely necessary to intensify the process of bringing these emissions down, and that our commitments under the Kyoto Protocol will require us all to contribute to these reductions. Climate change is global. That is why we must work in parallel to ensure that as many countries as possible join the Kyoto Protocol. In addition to industry, measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions need to be taken. include the transport sector, waste management and increased commitment to renewable energy. In this comprehensive perspective, I do not believe that we need to overshadow the main challenge in terms of how the early actions are to be implemented. However, industry is anxious about how unilateral measures against Norwegian industry will work. The Government Parties and SV clarify in the setting in the form of Roman Numeral Decisions that the detailed design of the early quota system must and must be done in close cooperation with industry. In this context, the allocation of allowances to enterprises and industries is to be discussed, including: account is taken of special conditions in the base year 1990, the technology available to businesses to reduce emissions and the costs involved. The reason why the Bondevik government has wanted a quota system is that it is market-based and that it gives both authorities and industry some experience with the system. The majority of the Committee also wants industry to be able to use international Kyoto mechanisms, such as: the green development mechanism. This too will be important learning that can benefit from the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. I have noticed in the debate, not without surprise, that the Progress Party is very concerned about the industry. I'm very happy about that. It stands in stark contrast to the party that some time ago said: «Industry we no longer need – put it in a mill bag, maybe we need it when the oil is finished.» In cooperation with the industry requested by the majority of the committees, account must also be taken of what is happening in the EU and elsewhere in the world, and the decision on cooperation will be a safety valve in order to have an effective and good system of emission reduction requirements in several areas but with which industry can live. It is only in reliable and good cooperation between authorities, businesses and organisations that necessary results can be achieved. And it's only when we all understand the need and the importance of reducing our climate emissions that we can succeed. It says about serious consequences. The size shall determine an important start to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e312	The Stoltenberg government presented the climate announcement last June. Since then, international clarifications have been made regarding further work on the Kyoto Agreement, including: through the meetings of Bonn and Marrakech. These are clarifications that are very important for Norway to be able to meet its Kyoto obligations through national measures. The Committee has followed up a large number of St.melding. No 54 for 2000–2001 from the Labour Party Government, among others a stronger focus on electrification of the North Sea and emphasising work on generating gas power plants with CO2 management. Only through new technology can we save the global climate. I expect the government to follow up the hydrogen project at the Notodden and the pilot plant with CO2-free gas power plants. With this in mind, it is disappointing and almost a derailment that the Government, together with the SV, will push forward a national peculiar quota trade for the most competitive part of Norwegian industry. Even more provocative is the fact that Environment Minister Børge Brende almost daily refers to this industry as a high-emission industry, and he repeatedly points out that this industry does not pay CO2 or electricity taxes. After all, it's a wild policy that the Right has also been in favour of, but then they were in opposition. The truth is that the Norwegian process industry is the only sector in Norway which has actually reduced its greenhouse gas emissions to this day and which still wants to reduce its emissions further if the Bondevik government facilitates reasonable framework conditions. The Norwegian process industry is the most environmentally friendly process industry in the world, but is totally dependent on conditions of competition that are no worse than the other country can offer its industry. And no other country has imposed or will impose on its industry neither electricity charge nor climate cost before 2008. A nationally narrow system, proposed by the Government of Bondevik, supported by SV, although with a number of reservations and self-contradictory premises, is not an offensive climate policy but simply a retreat in the climate debate. I'll call it a technology brake, where the Norwegian process industry loses influence, and the whole country loses as an environmental nation. A narrow and early introduction of allowances system with individual allowance obligations in 2005-2008 per year. the holding, all treated equally in the allocation of free allowances, will destroy thousands of industrial jobs in rural areas. No one currently has allowances to sell, and the cost of action is from NOK 210 per person. tonnes and upwards. If Norcem in Kjöpsvik alone should take 20 pst. from 1990 levels, it means NOK 666 000 per year. employed in additional expenditure with calculation after NOK 200 per year. tonnes. Norway has already implemented significant environmental measures. They include: put heavily on alternative fuels instead of coal and coke. Norcem Kjöpsvik has thus reduced its emissions by almost 40 pst. CO2 per unit tons of cement. Elkem Salten in Northern Ireland is also actively involved in environmental action. They have tripled the consumption of tiles and significantly reduced the use of coal and coke. Here, quota trading will cost NOK 108 000 per year. employed. Production will stop and approx. 250 jobs disappear with sub-enterprises such as depends on the waste heat from the plant. The inner salt already has an unemployment rate of more than 5 pst. If this industry itself is allowed to take responsibility for its own environmental problems, they are willing to reduce CO2 emissions by 30 pst. But then they have to have the opportunity, as the Workers' Party says, to make agreements and allocate responsibility themselves. Why does this have to be so difficult? Why not build on the good experience of the 1997 aluminium agreement and the sulphur agreement from time to time with the Stoltenberg government, an agreement which is currently chosen by country in the EU and which has produced very good results? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e340	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e343	Is the objective of the Minister for the Environment a showdown in the Johannesburg suitcase? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e349	The President shall draw the attention of the representative to the fact that the speaking time is up. Before we go to the three-minute posts, the president will urge us to take collective responsibility for the fact that there are several things on the agenda besides the evening, so that we do not get into the situation that we are dealing with important matters at noon. 02.00–-03:00 at night. The collective responsibility lies with those who are sitting in the hall now, as much as those who are going to have the word late tonight in other matters. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e356	The UNFCCC with the Kyoto Protocol is important in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. The fact that Norway should have a driving role in this work is, I believe, very important, and this debate has also been shown today. Norway is a well-developed country with large energy resources and high technological standards. How we manage our resources could affect the work of other countries on greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, this must be done in a way that at the same time ensures Norway’s international interests and the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses. The government sees it as important to have a global perspective on climate policy. I assume that everyone on Stortinget has. However, I find it difficult to see how the Government fully implements this in practical policy. Majority setting, i.e. the government parties, supported by SV, contain several weaknesses in my opinion. I am somewhat amazed at the alliance between the parties Right and SV in the fight for a better environment. If the consequences of their decisions are that production is moved to other countries, they will have both nutritional and environmental consequences. Then you can ask what's really the intentions. Is it only to reduce Norwegian emissions, without considering what this would mean for the global environment? Or are the intentions different? The Labour Party has made proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industry that we believe would provide a better result both environmentally and industrially. I would like to point out here that the SO2 fee was replaced by an agreement with the industry. The agreement was established following discussions between the Workers' Party and industry on how best to achieve the agreed emission reductions while maintaining the competitiveness of the industry. This agreement will ensure that the obligations of Norway on SO2 emissions under the Gothenburg Protocol are met, only to demonstrate that it is possible for other solutions to produce a better environmental outcome. At that time, it is wrong to work out principles rather than to ensure better environmental solutions. Now there are also some points of light in the majority position, for example. that the early quota system needs to be developed in close dialogue with industry and that the system is flexible enough to ensure the competitiveness of the process industry. It is important that a national quota system takes account of the fact that there is no desire for a reduction in industry in this country, so as to build up such an industry elsewhere in the world where cleaning requirements are not so stringent and energy sources are more polluting. I would also like to draw the Committee's attention to the possibilities for energy recovery in industry. This will be of great environmental importance and will give businesses a better platform for future existence. It may seem that the Storting essentially agrees on the goal. That's the path to the goal that the Storting doesn't quite agree on. I hope that in the future it will be possible to achieve greater consensus on such important matters. It will be crucial for the environment, industry and not least for the country. I hope that with the decisions you make here tonight, you don't help building up the industry, especially in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e382	It is sometimes thought that the way in which the Kyoto agreement is now being implemented has put Norwegian jobs at risk. Could it really be that the Party of Right and District and Employment SV has gone completely away from its important objectives? Of course not. Last Wednesday we could read in the Nations about Nycomed Amersham who invested 600 million. kr to build up the contrast fluid factory in Lindesnes. The company is planning 50 new jobs. Norwegian industry is just the history of technological change, innovation, research and innovation. The supplier industry, the oil sector, the yard industry, the wood processing industry, the metal industry and the chemical industry have all examples showing that the development of a new product or mode of production will be decisive for the development of the company. Norwegian industry has continuous growth during the change. Many of the companies that are in Norway today are advanced, strong and innovative. Norwegian industry is willing to change, he is innovative, and he is competence-intensive. It is necessary for me to clarify that Norwegian industry is good, he has values that will always be important. Willing to change, competence and innovation will be the muscle of the Kyoto movement that parts of the industry are about to undergo. Therefore, Kyoto will provide more and better value than before. There will be more than one job set, not less. In connection with the proceedings, we have proposed to spend NOK 1 billion on a programme for the development of environmental technologies in Norwegian companies for increased and faster eco-innovation. Unfortunately, there is no other party on the Stortinget that supports it. We have confidence in Norwegian business. We know that there is vitality and capacity for innovation, and we think that this is the right way to go to continue to do this. SV has been in dialogue with the industry in this work. Many of the objections raised by the industry have our good objections. That is why we have seen certain requirements for the implementation of this national quota system, and the case spokesperson has gone into more detail. When the Storting makes this historic decision today, my invitation to industry and to the Workers' Party is that they take the initiative to continue the dialogue so that the further design of the quota system is as effective as possible. The dialogue has been useful, and I believe that the dialogue will continue to be useful in developing a good national quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e401	Norway is obliged by the UNFCCC, signed in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992, Article 6, to work towards greater understanding and knowledge of climate change, their causes and their impact. Climate problems are so complex that the task of training is very important in all parts of the population. Without this, it will eventually become a problem that a small part of the political environment is working on. Climate challenges are enormous. Many of these responses lie in attitudes, knowledge and action, and in the field of intersection and interrelationship. Centrally, education and the dissemination of knowledge to pre-schoolers, children and young people in primary, secondary and tertiary education. Environmental and resource management and environmental knowledge must be at the heart of all education. A total training committee, minus the Progress Party, says in the setting of St.meld. No 16, which will be dealt with tomorrow by the Storting, that the basis for the training of teachers must be an understanding of international challenges in terms of poverty, the environment and sound resource management. This means that environmental education should be a basis for the education of our children and young people, and this applies both nationally and internationally. A joint church, education and research committee has stated that the intersection of environment and energy was one of the four priority areas of research. This needs to be closely followed up by multi-disciplinary and multidisciplinary research and the need to give more priority to social sciences. Norway as an oil, gas and fisheries nation has a special responsibility for our management of our resources and research into alternative environmental sources. At the same time, we need to be able to meet these challenges through increased knowledge and a higher investment in equipment. At the same time, we are rich enough, and we can afford this. The Polar Institute in Tromsø is very important for climate research. At Svalbard, Norway has a unique starting point for climate research, which SV believes is important and forward-looking. But research in the Arctic is demanding. It costs money, and it costs an increase in effort. When the Government joins with the budget-mates of the Progress Party and the Progress Party is the key to determining the level of climate research, this does not promise well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e416	I am of the opinion that it is a real matter to disagree, and I think that all parties should be respected for it. Then I have to say that being accused of being a ‘spooker’, as the Workers' Party was made by the Minister for the Environment, is a strong word from a Council of State. In addition, the Council of State was able to accuse us of not being willing to cooperate with the government parties. I just have to say that is actually wrong. It is also completely wrong that we have signed out of the process. We invited you to join us. the government parties to a broad dialogue with a view to making arrangements, but the truth is that the government parties had no mandate to move on the regime from the Government by one millimetre. In addition, we have a combined industry behind us, and the employees, the employers and the Bellana are for our business. I think the Minister for the Environment, through such statements as he made from the pulpit here instead, devalues what a whole industry says is the reality and the result of this proposal. I expect that they will also notice the accusations the Minister for the Environment has made against them. We in the Workers' Party definitely don't run a game! We have a real commitment to our environment, to the climate, but also to Norwegian industry. This can and should, in our opinion, go hand in hand. Then to the debate on 20 p.m. and 30 pst. and who are the most for reductions. According to the Government's arrangement, you want 20 pst emission reductions. for each holding. We're saying that the industry has to do 30 pst. in total. That's the main difference, and that's a pretty significant difference. At the bottom of this debate, I would like to encourage the Minister for the Environment to think about the situation in this important policy area per. Now. I would urge the Minister for the Environment not to invest more excellence in this matter than has already been done. Because it still has to be so that it's the results that count, and I assume we all agree on that. I choose to trust the Minister of the Environment's guarantee that no enterprises will be shut down, and therefore I must also say that I look forward to the treatment of the odelstingsproposition in this room somewhat later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e431	I want to use my post to decorate the Right and the Working Party. First of the Right: It's great that the Right and Government are promoting an early quota system proposal. There is also respect for the way it is done, and there is respect for the work done by the Minister for the Environment and his people. It has also been said very well about this earlier today. I would like to say to the Labour Party: Last June, the Stoltenberg government presented a climate communication that did not contain sufficient tools to pursue an offensive climate policy. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has now taken over, and during the processing of this additional message, the Workers' Party, together with various proposals, has promoted no less than 12 proposals, each of which would have been a contribution to intensifying the government's communication on climate. I am particularly pleased that the Workers' Party is involved in our proposal to reduce oil firing by 80 pst. by 2012. There's nothing in the government's Stoltenberg climate report – from 0 pst. to 80 pst. in a year, that's good. Then I am very happy that the Workers' Party is in favour of our proposal to provide good support schemes for new renewable energy. There was nothing about this in the government's Stoltenberg climate report, and it is very good that they have got it to date. Then I am pleased that our proposal for a small-scale grant scheme and households will invest in renewable energy sources and waterborne heat will be included. I'm very happy for the hydrogen fund initiative, and not to talk about how happy I am that the Workers' Party will be to make demands on the Green Development Mechanism. There was nothing about it either in the government of Stoltenberg's climate report. And I'm very happy about the support we've received in relation to our proposal to launch an introduction programme for biofuels. Because this was not the case in the government of Stoltenberg's climate report either. It is only to congratulate the representatives of the Workers' Party on having moved on important stones of the Workers' Party's climate policy during the examination of this Communication. If I may say the following to Sylvia Brustad and Børge Burnde: I have a dream! Think if it could be such that the Workers' Party had checked down a bit and joined in on the Right proposal for the quota system! And think if that was how Børge Burnde checked himself down a little and joined the Labour Party and our proposals on the climate announcement! The sum of it would have been an offensive and forward-looking climate policy, and it needs that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e446	I join the army of young women from SV who are more concerned with climate policy than with the President's night sleep, and hope for the President's patience. It has been said many times from this platform in this debate that the climate challenge is one of the most serious environmental challenges we face. This seriousness starts gradually going up for most people. SV therefore wants a wide range of measures. Heidi Sørensen was inside a part of them in his post. I would like to give a concrete example to show how SV has entered the sector by sector and look at what can be done concretely to save the climate. It's a lot, much more than the quota system. It is a fact that the waste sector accounts for 7 pst. of the total climate emissions from landfills. Furthermore, waste carries transport, and it brings with it energy consumption, because we have a use and waste system. Much can be done through waste minimisation, much can be done through recycling — including on the energy side. But, once again with the President's night sleep in mind, I will now focus particularly on one of the SV's brilliant proposals, namely the proposal to ask the Government to introduce a ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste. We know that degradation, especially then of organic waste, leads to large amounts of methane. I record that the majority of the committee is attending an assessment of this from the Government. We in SV are ready to address the specific emissions when we see them, but it may well be that the government's assessments lead to the same wise conclusion that we have to do something about emissions. The call goes to the Government: come back with an assessment where you actually address these specific emissions and do the same in all the other specific areas where SV has made representations about what can now be done beyond the quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e459	The President has a certain understanding that environmental policy can be more important than the President's night sleep.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e462	We approach the landing point – probably – of this debate, which is the result of a relatively long process, first in the Government, then in the Committee. There has been relatively much tension in this matter, and there has been a high temperature both in the media and sometimes in the debate today. I think there's reason to follow up a little bit on some of what Sylvia Brustad was about, that we have to find out that we're actually in disagreement, and that we have to respect it. That, I think, is a good starting point in relation to the further process when the details of what is adopted tonight as a quota system are to be developed. We want to say from the government parties – contrary to what the representative Mr. Vaksdal said, that it was a day of sorrow – that this is a day of joy, since in our opinion this is the start of a more offensive and good environmental policy, which at the same time takes care of Norwegian industry. It is important, and then we have a common objective that we have no desire for the Norwegian process industry to be either shut down or flagged in any way, but that we should set up the quota system in such a way that that industry will continue to exist with Norway as an eagle. It's a wish we have. But we mean something else and believe that the system for which the government, along with the SV, is now a majority, is a more effective instrument, a more flexible instrument, and not, as has been said, a more expensive instrument. We may experience that it is produced there from some of the representatives today that selecting the Workers' Party model is almost free of charge. That's not it. It costs industry quite significantly to implement measures, even though they are never so voluntary. We believe that the system for which the Government now has a majority is the best and most effective, even in relation to Norwegian industry and the learning processes that you are going to go through in order to be the best prepared when, hopefully, the big international system comes into place once. In this way, in our opinion, Norway will have a competitive advantage. If you look at it in a slightly long-term perspective, and the industry should do that, you should see that here you have opportunities that you might not have had if you had signed up for voluntary agreements. As we approach the end of the debate, I would like to say that we invite all parties in Stortinget to a dialogue on the details of the odelstings proposition that is coming. We record with respect for each other that we disagree on the systems, but at least we can see if it's possible to figure out together when it comes to important leads for what's going to be the final arrangement. So finally, a little thank you to SV for a constructive contribution to ensuring the government's policy, and not least to the case's rapporteur, who has done an excellent job with a difficult and demanding case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e479	Norway was No. 2 of the developing countries in relation to ratifying the Kyoto Protocol. We have also been on internationally for many years to achieve the most binding Kyoto agreement. The situation now is that the United States has chosen not to ratify, and so has Australia. There's an exciting political process going on in Canada in that way. I think we should be a little proud here today of the fact that in Norway, even with the international developments that have been taking place in this area, we are willing to stand by the Kyoto Protocol. There are some tough greenhouse gas reductions we have to do nationally in the years ahead. But in view of the fact that this is the biggest environmental challenge we are facing, I think it is good that we have a relatively broad political consensus on this. There has also been considerable agreement on the measures proposed by the Government, both in relation to the contract sector, the conversion of oil firing and the electrification of the socket. Even part of the Great Britain goes even further in relation to these measures. There has been a development in relation to the first climate communication that was presented, also to the additional message we came with, and the deleveraging treatment that has been. It turns out that there is a great deal of interest in renewable energy and how, in the years to come, combined with a national quota system, we are going to have a real climate action in Norway. And here we go in front of the international. I can promise Stortinget that the Government will also, in the international rounds of negotiations coming in the years to come, place great emphasis on how the design of the GMM should be – joint implementation – that these should be good environmental projects, that there should be open processes and that they should be verifiable. As for what the representative from Brustad said that I should have said that no businesses should be shut down, I think it must be a little bit more. What I said was that no jobs were to be laid down as a result of the national quota system. I guess I said the opposite, against the fact that a lot of companies in the process industry have been shut down in recent years, not least now the magnesium production of Norsk Hydro on Her Island. It's actually something else. But in cooperation with the industry, the Government takes seriously that we should make binding reductions of 20 pst. by 2008 in this sector as well, and that design is to be done in a prudent manner. The reason why I now hope for good cooperation with the Stortinget in the future is that this is difficult in relation to the EU and ESA. There is an EU-wide allowance directive that we will now try to influence so that it can come to the top of it. I also want to focus on having good cooperation with the Biggest parties, including those who have chosen, according to themselves, more ambitious targets for greenhouse gas reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e499	At the bottom of the debate, I would like to thank you for very constructive cooperation both with the government parties and with the Council of State in this matter. It is that environmental and poverty problems are the greatest challenge facing the world. The enormous wealth we have in the north and poverty in the south is inextricably linked to the threat of global warming and threatening climate change. That's why we're doing this. That is why we need an offensive climate policy. That is why we have fought and worked to put in place the most possible measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That is why we support a national quota system to be introduced from 2005. That is why it is important and why it is necessary for a political majority in this room to take responsibility for future developments and show that Norway is taking part in the burden of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's the only way to get the rest of the world. U.S. countries point to us and say: if you cannot demonstrate that you are able to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases, we will not agree to a binding agreement. The United States is pointing to the developing countries. If the developing countries are not included, the United States will not participate in the post-2012 period either. Now it is the case that we are going to start negotiations on further reductions beyond the Kyoto period. Then we have received a basis through this climate communication that we can take our responsibility, do our part of the job, to get the emissions down to +1 pst. of the 1990 level, which is our Kyoto target. This climate communication gives us an offensive climate policy in place. In addition, I would also argue that this is a good employment policy, because at least we do not contribute incentives for closures. The challenge ahead is to create a political majority for the necessary measures, which have not yet been endorsed by a majority in this Chamber, which go even further in reducing emissions. It is also a very sensible strategy to reduce the pressure on the industrial sector. The more we manage to reduce emissions in other sectors, the less pressure we need to put on industry to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in that sector. So if we're going to get a majority of the offensive measures that SV has in the front line, I'm more positive about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e510	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5. [[Fotation, see page 3298]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e525	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e534	Today we have the chance to declare that we want an offensive, targeted and environmentally friendly urban and urban policy. Cities and agglomerations have functions such as service locations and meeting places, not only for the inhabitants of the municipalities in question, but also as focal points for municipalities around them. As case spokesman, I am pleased that a broad majority is behind the main principle of the message, and I would like to thank for the good environment – to stay in terminology – and to cooperate in the Committee on this matter. Many people find it to live in cities as the best building alternative. Here people find a lack of cultural provision, educational provision, work, varied service provision, different teams and organisations, and many cultures meet. Close patterns of housing provide a range of challenges in relation to urban and spatial planning, development structures, good urban environment, conservation of green land and the establishment of new ones. An urban development policy that stimulates holistic thinking and planning in relation to housing, workplaces, cultural services, environmentally friendly energy use and public transport will solve many of the environmental challenges facing cities. The Committee points out that in its first sub-section, the Plan Law Selection has proposed a number of measures to make planning simpler and more efficient. A joint committee agrees with the objective of this work, and the Committee would stress that laws, guidelines and regulations on planning and construction must be clear. At that time, the approval powers, planners and applicants for approval of the current project will be able to have a common understanding of the requirements for sustainable urban and urban development. The Committee believes that municipalities must have a high level of competence, involving different disciplines that can assess different aspects of urban development. The Committee also believes that a good collective offer that results in a greater proportion of citizens travelling by collective, environmentally friendly means of transport instead of using a passenger car is important both for reducing climate change and for improving the urban environment. The Committee is aware that air quality in many cities is poor, especially in cold and dry winter days with heavy particulate matter. This creates problems for many people, and especially for those with respiratory problems and allergies. Efforts to improve air quality must therefore be of high priority. A number of Norwegian cities have been known to have campaigned against driving with heavy-duty tyres to reduce the amount of health-threatening asphalt dust. It has produced good results and it should be assessed whether a permanent charge should be imposed on the use of peak tyres or peak tyre bans in larger cities. Clean air is important both for well-being and health. The effort to reduce noise needs to be intensified. A majority of the Committee agrees with the national objective of reducing noise pollution by 25 pst. before 2010. In this context, it is considered important to prevent the creation of new noise sources. In cities and agglomerations, there is a large potential forincreased action. In areas where housing and housing complexes are dense, provision is made for systems with different types of district heating and water-borne heating systems based on renewable energy sources. The many large buildings that exist or are traveled in cities and agglomerations are also places where energy-efficient heating systems can be installed. The Committee would stress that it is the municipalities and the regional authorities in liaison with the State which has the primary responsibility for urban and urban development. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the law is used for environmentally friendly urban development. The approaches we are taking today through the treatment of the ‘Better urban and urban environment’ message are a starting point for even more sustainable urban development. By doing so, I recommend the setting from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e564	The environmental challenges in society are relatively large. Environmental issues have been on the agenda as wealth has increased and science has evolved. There is a broad desire in the committee to do something about the environment in our cities and our agglomerations. Here again, we still find different attitudes in relation to what you think is best in the long run. The majority, consisting of the government parties and SV, will impose a permanent charge on the use of peak tyres in cities. The working party believes that this must be determined by each city if they have problems with the environment. We also believe that the environmental tax should not be permanent. It's with some surprise we're recording what the parties that went to the choice of lower fees, now do. Lifts are deep inside the jam! Furthermore, the Centre Party and SV will grant the public transport rights in intersections, while the Workers' Party and the SV will have a test scheme to test out free buses. This has been tried in other cities in Europe, for example: in Hasselt, Belgium. The situation in the city in 1995 was that the city centre was being suffocated by increasing traffic and massive pollution. Traffic accidents increased, and people moved out of town. Billions of investment were also planned in new motorways. The political majority in the city decided to take action to improve the environment. Instead of building a road, public access to public transport was made possible by means of public transport, while at the same time facilitating walking and cycling. However, the triggering effect for a better environment came with a free bus. Every year since the start of the project, passenger traffic has increased sharply. Traffic in the centre is reduced by 16 pst., trade has increased sharply, restaurants experience golden times, and the environment is radically changed. In 1997, there were 300,000 bus trips in Hasselt each year. During the first year, the number of passengers increased by more than eight times to 2.7 million. Today it is approx. 3.5 million. passengers per year, i.e. more than one time-lapse of the passenger base in five years. Kristiansand city should now start a bus metro, and free bus was an important campaign in West Agder. All parties representing the County of Stortinget, i.e. the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, then thought that free buses were very interesting and something that had to be worked on further. I have to say that I have not noticed so much about that work from the other parties. Now it turns out that it is only the Workers' Party and the SV who are following the promise of a test scheme with a free bus. One might ask where the promises of the other parties have gone. The message we are handling today is full of pious desires. Environmental policy requires more than pure desire; action is needed. We in the Workers' Party are eagerly awaiting the further follow-up from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e584	The good city life has almost become a concept in some circles since the Cooperative Government launched this easier rewriting of the recognised sociological concept of ‘good life’. The environment in cities and agglomerations is important for people. The search for a more urban lifestyle with the qualities of urban life has been decisive when Norwegian cities and agglomerations have experienced such a strong growth in the number of inhabitants and jobs in the last decade. It's where most jobs are created, and it's where people move to experience more offers and greater diversity in many areas. Norway, which was almost an atypical country in this respect, had a very decentralised residence and activity linked to the resource base. Cities and agglomerations have, as a general rule, formed as a marketplace for their surrounding area. It's an important fact that there's reason to remember. In fact, I know only one city in Norway that has not had such a background in traditional terms, namely Bergen. Bergen was for many hundred years city mostly of Norway from Lindesnes to Nordkapp, based on trade in fish to a particular extent. Trade traditions also place Bergen in such a role as Hansastad and as an extroverted European city. Today, it is possible to trace a type of continental urban culture in Bergen, which they have long been alone in Norway. But time overtakes most, urban culture has been re-expanded and focused, we are urbanised more or less all of us, and thus become more like our brothers and sisters out in Europe, who, incidentally, have always had a defined urban/tight-town structure, with clear boundaries to their decentralized surroundings. This is why it is quite appropriate when the Co-operation Government takes this development seriously and through its urban and urban environmental impact report focuses on the city’s qualities and opportunities, but also on problems and challenges. Then it becomes an overall goal that cities become vibrant and pulsating, and a place where housing, social life as well as cultural and business life have an equally natural place. Cooperation with private individuals on development plans and planning solutions is becoming very important. Human beings are affected by the environment the planner and the builder shapes, both emotionally and socially. Therefore, consideration for conscious design is important. The architect and planner have an important responsibility for developing the city's historical tradition, peculiarity and sustainability. This may be the key prerequisite for creating a good environment in cities and agglomerations. Of course, this applies to both the building mass and the green structure, both of which are important ingredients in the identity formation of the city's inhabitants. Equally important are perhaps attitudes and consideration of pollution, as well as visual as noise by different decibels. But also attitudes to other pollution problems, which the rapporteur drew up in an excellent way, are of course important. In order to ensure the pulsating life of cities and cities, it is also important to focus on accessibility and accessibility, which is, of course, a ‘must’ for a city. These are all important prerequisites for a city or a town's functionality, or as the very starting point for developing the good urban life. Then eco-friendly cities and agglomerations become important, because everything that can be gathered under this concept creates well-being, whether it concerns the use of land in pleasant exchange zones such as residential areas, or a rational road structure and a well-functioning and attractive collective offer. There are a lot of areas here to deal with, and the government's message is very important. It is also in line with the government's other policies that municipalities must have great freedom and influence as the responsible land and property authority operator in their own local environment. Finally, let's kill the myth once and for all: City is not against land, nor in this matter. The city and country have different functions in the national division of labour and are interdependent. Viable cities and agglomerations are necessary for their respective surroundings in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e610	If we are to have viable and prosperous cities, it is essential that we have an interaction and a balance between business interests and environmental interests. It is therefore important to bear in mind that cities need to trade, and not the trade that needs cities. We have recently had a development in which large parts of the trading activities that used to be held in downtown areas have now been moved to shopping centres outside the center. This includes, among other things: its background in more difficult accessibility in the centre areas in many places. Walkways, green facilities, parks and car-free zones are of course positive for the experience in urban areas, but several places where this is exaggerated, this has led to a large stop to trade. The desire of environmental protection for car-free centres has therefore led to an increase in the use of cars in many places, i.e. in contravention of the objective. The urban environment communication and the majority of the committee focus heavily on public transport, while the use of passenger cars is seen as an evil. The Progress Party believes that the conditions also need to facilitate the use of passenger cars. Recent passenger cars have become low-noise and have less and less emissions. This, in addition to the fact that many prefer to use the car for their transport operations, makes it clear that we do not see any reason to limit the use of the car either inside or outside built-in lines. Instead, we want to make it easier to use a car and will therefore work for the further development of both road installations and parking capacity even in built-in lines. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee has focused on accessibility for people with disabilities in cities and agglomerations. However, I am somewhat surprised at the majority of the committee in reducing the amount of asphalt dust. In the opinion of the majority of the Committee, they ‘know that several Norwegian cities have had campaigns’ to reduce the amount of this hazardous dust. They also write that this has produced good results, and then they conclude that they want an assessment of the imposition of a permanent charge on the use of tyres, or alternatively a heavy-duty ban, in larger cities. So here we have an example of a campaign that has been voluntary and that has worked according to purpose and has given good results, and then one concludes with fees and bans. It's completely incomprehensible to me, and I suspect the majority once again to help even more of the drivers' money find the way to some public fund. I cannot find any other explanation for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e619	Let me start by recording the Workers' Party proposals and SV agree, and the suggestions from SV. I thank the case spokesperson for his efforts, and start by saying that there are many well-meaning words and many good wishes in the urban environment message and the committee's settings. But the problem is that there are a lot of words, and when one comes to the concrete, one gets involved. The Committee is certain that one should have an offensive urban and urban policy, some that public transport should be central, some that one should dampen the pressure on the near open air and agricultural areas, some that one should focus on congestion and more on developing green areas, playgrounds and parks, some that one should reduce the use of private cars, some to take care of cultural memories and the cultural environment, reduce traffic noise and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption – just to mention some of the aspirations. But then the problem is that when you're going to move from these good desires to practice, the parts of the load fall. The Labour Party lists some of the suggestions that the government party would not have on it, which would secure some of the goals that you have in your message, but which do not include a multiple. SV has a number of other proposals that are specific to the objectives set out in the Urban Environment Communication, which the Committee sets out, but at the same time it becomes concrete, puts a tail between its legs and says: No, we cannot be concrete. A few examples of this: public transport, which was just dealt with in Stortinget as well, in connection with the collective notification. A number of SV proposals that go into concrete detail and achieve the objectives contained in the urban environment message will not be adopted or followed up. In the setting for the urban environment message, SV is on a proposal to ask the Government to take new urban runway initiatives, for example. On the North Jären, where I come from, there are medical plans for the city track for a long time, but a wait for the planning tools to move forward in the process, so that one can realize the goal of public transport, that it should have a central place. But as long as you don't have the money for this, or want to be concrete, it'll just be nice words. The same can be said of what is also expressed by the Council of State in a press release, in relation to an offensive to reduce noise pollution. When we from Stortinget's page try to be concrete, for example. In relation to Grorud, as the Labour Party and SV have proposed to convert into an environmental zone – where there are 120 000 people, one can often not go out because of air pollution, and there are major health problems due to noise – when we ask for a policy to do something there, says one no, we have to come back to it. At the same time, one says to bet on the environment and reduce traffic noise. In other words, it gets a little airy and a little concrete. Another suggestion – it is possible that one could get on it even in the next round – goes on, as one has done a lot of spaces, offensively going out to get over the highway and use it for emptying. Around the whole country, there are many action groups working for that very thing. The problem is they don't find people who want to use the land because it costs too much. The Landsförbund of Norsk Boligbyggelags said this in concrete terms on the phone, that if it is to be realised, the state must contribute funds to this. It's a simple grip — it's going to cost a little bit, but not all the world — that reduces the noise of thousands of people, that reduces health problems, and that uses land and thus prevents pressures on the open area and agricultural land. So these concrete proposals are not willing to go into and look at the whole thing, and it disappoints SV. So that's the concrete thing that's going to be the hard part. So one might also say that many of these airy things that are presented in the urban environment message lead to an increased effort on the planning page. But as soon as the Workers' Party and SV address formulations that say something about local economy, one of them falls off the hook. Consistently, everything that costs money will not be taken in. And it is clear that if one is not willing to go into measures that cost money, it simply becomes empty words, and then the urban environment message becomes optional and optional without concrete content that materializes in concrete environmental measures. SV will also address issues related to the urban environment, as in climate policy, to present offensive and concrete proposals – as we do in the context of the Urban Environment Communication – and invite them to join in and form multiple figures with the Government. The government had the chance in relation to the proposals we had in connection with the Urban Environment Communication. There they didn't want to do it. That means that the government was not willing to follow up the offensive urban environment policy that SV wants in this area, but we, which is the country's leading party for the environment, have not given us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e634	The message about a better environment in cities and agglomerations that we are dealing with now calls for a development that takes care of the good life of cities and agglomerations and positive qualities by living centrally. Cities and agglomerations should in the future be dense, functional, diverse and more environmentally friendly. Green structures, biodiversity and important cultural environments shall be ensured as a prerequisite for closer urban development. And it's not hard for anyone to join this. However, it should also be an important objective for Norwegian regional policy to limit urban population growth. You have to have dense cities, but you have to limit growth. This will reduce both the pressure problems in the cities and will prevent them from moving out of the districts. Cities and rural areas are interdependent, and balanced development is important both for human and socio-economic reasons. Municipalities and county councils play an important role in the development of cities and agglomerations through the responsibility for spatial planning. Urban areas shall be developed on the basis of coordinated spatial and transport plans from a regional perspective. The national policy guidelines for such planning shall be revised and the principles contained in this message will form the basis for the revision. This may be true, but at the same time, one cannot simply assume that national policy guidelines are equally appropriate in more dispersed areas. Klungland was very concerned about public transport in his post, and I'm really just going to draw up a single theme here, and it's about transport, i.e. accessibility. In order for people to use public transport — and that should be done as far as possible — it needs to be facilitated. Switching to more collective transport will have a good environmental impact in several areas. We believe that there is a need for a much larger proportion of local urban traffic to shift towards collective transport. There are different instruments that can be used to achieve such a transition. Some will be very economically demanding, and it will take a long time to get them up. I'm thinking about the construction of tracks, etc. However, rapid solutions may, for example: to facilitate more collective fields, to give priority to public transport in intersections and to increase the frequency of routes on collective funds. It will cost, but it may be socio-economically necessary and absolutely correct. Like most others, this big message contains a lot of good intentions, and in this case to improve the environment in cities and agglomerations. That's good, but it costs money. I have to tell the representative Langeland that not only the SV and the Workers' Party, but also the Center Party is very concerned that we need money for this. The implementation of these intentions requires increased planning skills and additional public efforts. Large investments will be needed to achieve this. This would be impossible for municipalities and regional authorities to carry out if funds were not allocated in accordance with the tasks. Unfortunately, this could lead to the gloomy developments that are now taking place in the local economy. It would be a shame if these good intentions that we have in this message, just become desktop work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e649	This big message provides a good and holistic assessment of what needs to be done to improve the environment and quality of life in cities and agglomerations. Left, and I don't believe at least the local layer of the Left around the country, the whole heart will join the main parts of the message. It contains just the tools to develop intimate and human-friendly cities and communities. The left fights locally for this all over the country. The message represents a given with over 50 years of urban and urban development in Norway, and not least one given with the last 50 years of lifestyle – an ideal primarily from California in the 1950s, with single dwellings in large residential areas and its own car. Cities were developed with a clear distinction between housing, work and leisure activities. This message contains a number of really good actions, with node development, wise and adaptive densities, environmental and history preservation, collective actions and a reconnaissance of the city's historic centre. Everything is brilliant and represents a holistic approach to all communities in Norway should follow suit. The problem is that most areas in Norway are still in the wrong direction. Cities flow outwards at least as fast as before. A car-based purchasing pattern, 1 pst, is being facilitated more and more. cultural memory in the country disappears every year, and the biological deficiency in the construction zones is under constant pressure. Good urban development is found to be easy to go into overarching plans, but far more difficult to enter into practice in a range of individuals around the municipalities. It has turned out to be an area where too many parties have been shown to think about – it also applies to many of the parties that form multiples of this message here tonight – but far more difficult to really have the will to carry out. It is primarily the peoples around the municipalities who are responsible for good and humane urban and urban development. Urban development is a cultural struggle that will be fought in every detail around Norwegian municipalities. In this way, the results of the municipal elections for next year will be much more important for development than what we decide here at Stortinget. Urban and urban development is also an area where there are large differences between the parties in many municipalities. The state's task is primarily to take care of a superior responsibility for culture and the environment. A good and creative example of this that has been of great importance is the Purchasing Centre Summit launched by the Minister for the Environment of the Left; Guro Fjlangenger, under the previous Bondevik government. An area in which the state's efforts are entirely decisive is in relation to public transport. Increased efforts on public transport and the development of multiple cycle paths are crucial to developing more environmentally friendly urban areas. There's a lot of responsibility here for big business and government. That the Government takes its responsibility, it shows the basis on which this government is built, simply the Sem declaration. The state should also be involved in good individual projects around the municipalities. The environmental urban projects have been shown to produce good results, and their experience should be used and passed on. In particular, I would like to draw up a government agreement with the Municipality of Oslo on mandatory cooperation on better environment in Groruddalen. Many local charities also make a great effort to focus on their own community environment – and actively want to further develop this. These are good measures for which it is important for the public to prepare, both with financial resources and with support for planning and further development. Voluntary efforts to further develop the environment in an environmentally friendly way are an important asset to safeguard. Otherwise, I register that SV also has a number of suggestions relating directly to the next year's budget. It will be exciting to see how the Socialist Left Party will prioritize a lot of good action when the budget is presented. I would also like to remind you that the first five million to the Bergen railway was actually this government that came with it. It shows that this government is doing and will make a good effort for the city track. Finally, for one who is not born and raised in the city, but who has walked around the streets of Bergen and the old environment in Bergen, it is also important to bring with him the historic ballast, to become better acquainted with the city and the historical background. A little reminder in these busy times may be that the representatives, when they have a little bit more time, take a trip to the Bymuseet and up to Frogner Park to get acquainted with Oslo City's history.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e681	In relation to the debate that is now taking place, I would say that it is no more expensive to do good planning than to do bad planning. This Urban Environment Communication actually addresses many questions, how to get better and more environmentally friendly cities through a much better and more conscious planning process in the municipalities, the counties and also by the state. I think it was important for us from the Government to have a case of better environment in cities and agglomerations at the same time as the collective announcement came. I think it is great that the committee has been given the suspension related to this announcement in a busy spring session. It now gives important signals in relation to better spatial planning. This case has been far too long, and we have now been confirmed that there is a clear majority in the Stortinget that we should have denser and more environmentally friendly cities in the years to come. There is a lot that is possible to do even within the framework we have. Consider what is possible with regard to the conservation of biodiversity through better monitoring, and also the awareness to take care of it when regulating. It's also possible to take better care of the fields and the greens if you have a conscious relationship with it. Last Friday, the government protected several areas only in Oslo, established several nature reserves and protected areas to preserve biodiversity in very important areas for most people in an upland of 1 million. users. And more comes to those points there as well. But growing cities and agglomerations can promote environmental quality if we are willing to develop more concentrated cities and urban structures. Just look at what you can do through some creativity. I can mention the two corn silos in Cuba on Grünerløkka, which became hives for students – a very good project. I also think there have been other exciting thoughts that have been up here in terms of being able to get shelter within the framework of today's city pattern, without going at the expense of parks and green space. It's going to be a huge challenge. The transformation of old industrial areas is also crucial. We need to reduce the pressure on green space and close open air and recreational areas. We must set clear borders on coastal areas and valuable agricultural land. We need to take better care of our cultural memories. 1 pst. cultural memories disappear each year because of poor follow-up. Cultural memories are also an important part of urban travel. Strengthening public transport is essential in order to become the backbone of the transport system and the development pattern. That's where the government has added billions of bets in addition to what's already been laid by. The Government proposes to stimulate overall thinking and planning that will benefit positively from the interaction between urban development, the environment and health, culture and economic development with the urban and urban environment and the urban environment. I am pleased that a broad majority subscribes to the principles set out in the Communication. It is an objective to focus on the densification and development of areas within the existing urban and urban boundaries. Centre areas can and should be exploited in a more efficient and environmentally friendly way by taking old industrial areas, port areas and old traffic areas into new and modern use. In order to stimulate new solutions, I would like to invite the implementation of pilot projects, such as: testing of environmental zones in particularly environmentally contaminated areas. From this point of view, the objective of doing something about local air pollution and noise can also be done with worn-out green areas, falsified public spaces, road-hazardous areas, poor accessibility and forgotten cultural memories — turn a past quarter into a local environmental pearl. Just look at the challenges we have on the noise side: over 500,000 Norwegians are really struggling with noise problems, and now we have to start a long-term and commitment work to achieve the target of a 25 pst. the reduction of noise up to 2010, which the Government will also follow up. I will return to these issues in connection with the presentation of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom until the autumn. It is important to look at the development in the context of the provision of collective services. Development near public transport is important in order to ensure efficient and environmentally friendly transport. This is also a positive tool to reduce the need for private car use. Collective transport plays an important role in urban areas, both in terms of accessibility, air quality and climate. I think I'll finish there, so I don't blame the President's further frustrations here tonight, although there's a lot that could have been said beyond this on the occasion of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e710	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e713	As I mentioned in my post, there is a great deal of consensus in the message that is now being processed. We agree that municipalities should be given a greater consultative role in relation to different things. We agree that the planning processes should be improved, and we agree that special constructions and cities and places should be protected. So far – so good. But when it comes to the economic question, then the majority backs out and will not follow up on the fact that the municipalities that already have a tight economy are charged with additional tasks without having to keep up with money. We all assume that the government is aware of this and will come back to it in the further process. The working party and SV will also have a test scheme to try out free buses in some cities. It has been tried in other cities in Europe, with success. The situation in Hasselt in Belgium was very similar to that in which Kristiansand is now in, where there is increasing traffic and heavy pollution — traffic accidents are increasing, and it is not pleasant in the city. The triggering effect for improving the environment was that they put in a free bus. This led to a radical increase in passengers. In the election campaign, the candidates from the Right and Christian People's Party promised that this would be followed up in the Stortinget. Will the government follow up on the promises made in the Western Agdes in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e722	I belong to those who choose to take budgetary matters in the context of the budgetary procedure, and not primarily in the context of the notification and other current decisions during the year in Stortinget. But I understand that there's a virtue coming back, and it's probably former members of the finance committee who have a attachment to it. But I think we should recognise that in the context of communications, we are laying down principles, and then it is the government's task to follow up the intentions of what are the decisions in the annual budgetary processes. Because this has to be linked. As I said at the outset, I think it is possible to do a lot of good even within the limits you have. The municipalities do have something like NOK 200 billion, and there's a lot of money. I myself have been a municipal councillor for six years and have been in the building council for at least the same number of years, and I know the difference between good and bad planning. I also see that when I travel around Norway. Kristiansand is mentioned as an example here, where you have made a fantastic transformation of the port area, where you have even got a beach and a bathing area in the middle of the city, and where you have also got a green area, which is very positive. That's what this message is about, that we now need visions for greener and more environmentally friendly cities. In the case of promises that have been made in West Agder in the election campaign on free buses, I have to say that I have enough to keep up-to-date with the promises that have been made at national level. What's shown in the Collegiate Communication, which is my view at least, is that it's important to increase availability – i.e. the frequency of take-offs on collective offers – and I also think it's important to upgrade the material you have rather than to offer free arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e731	It is possible that someone might view my first post as a little negative, so I will start this line by being positive to two actions, which are partly within this case. One goes on this urban railway project that one has managed to get started in Bergen. That's what I thought was positive. But there are also many other urban projects, including: in Northern Ireland, which calls for increased efforts in this area. The second is about a proposal – on which SV in its time was involved – about a cultural memory fund, which is also important in relation to the problem we are talking about here. This is something that Stortinget has agreed three or four times that you have never been able to come with – but that this government has come with, and that takes care of any of the intentions of the urban environment message. I want to challenge the Council of State on the more concrete. I thought it was very good in the urban environment message. The Committee has formulated very well – that is, a breach of desire, how great it will be, etc., but when one comes to the concrete, whether it concerns the public communication, the urban environment message or the budget, a bit of the burden falls. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, Take this with superstructures of motorways that do something about noise and It can be done in a split layer system, e.g. between housing construction teams, Vegvesenet and the municipalities. What is it that makes the government council and government party negative to go into this, when you can actually save green space and agricultural land? Finally, why is it that you don't want to make Groruddalen an environmental zone when you know how many people live there and when you know how many health and environmental problems there are in the area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e742	I would first like to thank you for the nice words about the message we have submitted relating to better land planning in cities and agglomerations. It should have been presented to the Storting a long time ago. Important principles are also established here in relation to the prioritisation of the environment in the planning process. The Ministry of the Environment is the highest planning authority in Norway, and these principles now established by the Committee will also lead the decisions that will be taken on our part in these matters. That's why we've got it squeezed out. In fact, there is a lot of power and authority in relation to running good planning around the municipalities. I think it is nice that we also underline the positive attitude we have shown in relation to urban railways and not least in relation to the cultural memory fund that we have now established and which, hopefully, can grow in the years to come. With regard to the concrete budgetary follow-up to what is stated in the communication, I think it is natural to include it in the annual budgets. Now I can't promise that for the autumn – along with everything else that is prioritised – we will fulfill these desires. Some of them I hope we get in the next few years, because it's important to make our cities more environmentally friendly than today. Some of it is also simple. I mentioned transformation, and I mentioned corn silos. The representative of Langeland was involved in over construction of motorways. I think that is an exciting initiative. I have no money I can promise away here and now, but I can promise that we will go into this and look at what opportunities it opens up for. Because there's a lack of land in cities. We're going to be able to keep them within today's framework, and not expand them so that there is a greater need for car use and less attractive for collective transport. Then we have to make sure that this density does not occur on the expense of the green areas, parks and markets. This is something we have to take with us. This is an exciting thought, because then you take advantage of a room that is not used for anything today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e751	The communication on the urban environment is partly poetic and beautiful in its mention of everything that is good, and how great it will be in Norwegian cities. When we come to the instruments and how we're going to implement this, it's unfortunately much less musical. I want to address two things in relation to the challenges we face. The first is about public transport. The Urban Environment Communication states that public transport should be the backbone of the transport system in Norwegian cities. For some reason, the objective is not repeated in the collective communication. Maybe it should have been. Can the Councils clarify it? But what does the ‘backbone’ mean? If I say that I have the goal of at least 40 pst. of all the journeys made in a city to be made by public transport, have we reached the objective that public transport is the backbone? Or do we have to go even higher? What does the Council of State think about that? I also record that the government parties do not agree with SV when we propose to address something that is perhaps the most identity-creating for all Norwegian cities. They actually have it in common that almost all of them lie next to a river. And in the transition, in what we call the blue-green structures -- it should dress this government to be concerned about this -- there is also a lot of biodiversity and the exciting cultural landscape. We have called for an action plan to take care of this. Only one example, from Groruddalen: Alnaelva alone has more protected species than most Norwegian national parks. If we can take care of it, we've done something. And can the council also answer me: does he think that the Groruddalen is suitable as such an environmental zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e764	When the representative Sørensen started to say that the message presented by the Government is both ‘poetic and beautiful’, I realized something exciting came after that. The fact that the representative Sørensen was pleased that it said that public transport should be the backbone of the transport systems around the cities is also positive. However, she missed this review in the collective announcement, and I get to take note of that. But the intentions of the collective communication are exactly the same, even if you haven't chosen exactly the same words. I believe that both this message and the collective message are alerting an increased bet on public transport in cities. It is absolutely necessary to bring down air pollution and noise. And I think there's a consensus on that at Stortinget. But how we're going to manage to phase in the necessary financial effort, the annual government budgets show, and the ability we have to prioritize this. In relation to the environmental zones and the big cities it is not that the big cities have only fine rivers running through, but they are also facing the coast, the sea or the fjord. So taking care of both biodiversity and water quality and water level is important. The work that the previous government has also done in the Grorud valley, we will continue; it is like a big Norwegian city in itself. It already has environmental qualities today, but we must be able to build on them in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e771	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e776	The representative of Klungland referred to the assessment of the ability to impose heavy duty or heavy duty tyre bans. He referred to it as imposing a new charge on the drivers. Unfortunately, the representative must have misunderstood, because it is quite clear whether the drivers will drive with high tires and, if necessary, pay, or choose the right option, simply drive smoothly. It costs nothing, it saves the environment, it reduces road wear and tear, and it's safer in traffic. All things speak for the benefit of driving effortlessly. I.e.: no charge, but a good order. It is a bit interesting to mention that in Oslo they introduced a heavy-duty tyre charge, and it gave such a good result that they could cancel the fee, and there it was, of all the parties, the Labour Party that was the driver to introduce the high-speed tyre charge. For me, this is a health issue. Based on a meeting with children and young people with asthma, which many days a year can't go out because there's a lot of drivers who use high tires, I'd like to fight to reduce weight loss. The representative of Langeland had a nice listing of some of the many positive elements of this message. I thought it would be very good when he wants to go beyond what the message and the settings refer to. It facilitates good cooperation, so that we can move on to such an important issue and put important leadership in urban and urban development. We support the creation of environmental zones, and it is quite natural that it should take place on a local initiative through the city district and through the city council. Now it's designed to create such environmental zones, so I guess there's a lot of people who want to take that challenge. The public transport has received a wide range of references in the message. Few areas have been mentioned so many times, but collective action is also important for a vibrant urban community, and it is an environmentally sound initiative in relation to cities. The representative Enger referred to what was mentioned on page 7 of the setting, about collective fields and giving priority to public transport in the intersections. That comment was not supported by the government fraction. But in the collective message, the same parties have just supported this. The reason for this is that when this comment was introduced at the beginning, it was a different wording, and then we couldn't join it. And then the comment was changed, but by mistake, we're not in it. The representative and the others may add that the government section also supports the comment on page 7 of the right column. The local economy is always central. Nothing would be more pleasant if we could also lead the work of the Financial Committee here. But instead of taking a fight about the economy right here, we're more busy with the leads on. I'm talking to a consultant, and he said that the plan department proposal was a good one, for example. to be able to obtain a slightly different membership of the working groups at the level department. He said it doesn't have to cost anything extra, but we need this kick. I think many of the municipalities are getting a good incentive now to provide for measures that don't necessarily have to cost money. But we also have to be aware that it costs something, it has to be recorded in the next session.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e795	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e811	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e820	I will first address the proposals from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, so that it is done, and inform you that SV and the Center Party will vote against the setting at the end. The Committee was in a position to be consulted on a matter of urgency when the timetable for this proposal was invalidated. One would treat the odelstingsproposition and the gas market directive simultaneously to see them in context. It has now been done, but at a much higher pace than the case-speaker and the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment had initially thought. But here's the power. When a plurality of the Committee on Energy and the Environment will follow the Government Party's desire to deal with the matter in ours, it will be done. And in relation to the procedure we had for the treatment of the directive, I held out as a case spokesman. On the subject of this Directive, such as: When dealing with third-party access to the gas network, all the hearing bodies – the Centre for European Law, Øystein Noreng from BI, the European programme, the Norwegian gas company – were clear on one thing: one should not rush through this in the Storting, but use time and think about the consequences. No one – except the Centre Party and SV – today chooses to listen to what the hearing authorities warn against, to include this directive at the current pace. Professor Øystein Noreng stressed that Norway should wait to see how the liberalisation process took place internally in the EU. For, as one knows, the large monopoly companies in Germany and France strengthen their position and thus their monopoly in relation to the downstream side, i.e. the opposite of liberalisation. This was what Noreng thought it necessary for Norway to wait to see how precisely these major gas buyers in Europe would participate in the liberalisation process in the future, because the resistance of these countries to this liberalisation was great. Norway should then, following the opinion of the Centre Party and the SV, just wait and see how this liberalisation process will proceed in the EU. But one selects another strategy. A busy follow-up to what, in my opinion, seems to be Right's driving force: to be flingy in the class in relation to the EEA case and in relation to Brussels. And the Left Party and the Christian Party join that gallery. The one proposal by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party is in line with what everyone in the hearing about the directive wanted, simply to spend more time – i.e. a postponement proposal. Several parties have said in their electoral languages and also in their figures here that it is important that one has a holistic gas policy from the Norwegian side in order to secure the interests of the nation. One must consider how Norway acts as a producer, carrier, manager, exporter, etc. There is also a need to look at the impact of the fundamental interest problem on the liberalisation process currently under way. These are some unclear elements. And when one knows that the intention of the European Commission for the directive is cheaper gas, one should, according to purely national interests, stop and think: do we do this job well enough? Is it true that we are in fact able to counter the European Commission's position on the basis of this directive? It doesn't believe SV. The second proposal by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party is to discuss a holistic Norwegian gas strategy in relation to Europe in the context of the gas message coming to the autumn. We find that we probably don't get multiples for a policy that had secured its interests in a better way than the plurality does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e843	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e846	Today, when we are dealing with common rules on natural gas in the internal market, it is not what Norway has been primarily a driving force for. We need to protect ourselves, but have access to others, is still a political stance in individual parties. Norway, as a major gas exporter, is probably not going to benefit from liberalisation in the first place. But when it is said that this treatment, in the view of the Workers' Party, has nothing to do with the extent of our future gas exports. If one looks at policy together with energy needs and climate policy, Norwegian gas will continue to be a good product both for our countries of cooperation and for Norway’s future revenues. Nevertheless, there are fundamental reasons for liberalisation of the market. I appreciate that the EU, as a major gas importer, will liberalise the market. They do have the same reason that the Central Party had in its time to do the same with the power market in this country, that it should benefit consumers. In a system of enough goods, this will lead to a lower price. It is regrettable that we on the electricity market are not in that situation today. Norway is currently linked to an EEA agreement, which means that we are to have free movement of goods and services. In this case, this may be a disadvantage for Norway in isolation, but what will the situation be if Norway requires access to the market from our cooperating countries without having access to our goods? The EEA Agreement has been established on the basis of the wish for a single market. That's our export income depending on. The industrial policy that the majority of the population now pursue, with high interest rates, strong crowns and Norwegian excise duties, may make it difficult to see the context of the strategy, and this will lead to a subsequent need for decisions. The Ministry points out in its proposal that the inclusion of the Directive will not have a significant impact on Norway. It is not the case that the gas sellers in Norway with this directive are forced to sell. They just have to do it a different way than they've done up to today. Norway has already started the reorganization process in relation to the Directive. Statoil has just concluded new gas agreements with the United Kingdom without the Gas Negotiations Committee, GFU. The members of the SV and the Central Party, the minority in the Committee, have noted that they ‘register that demand for gas in Europe will increase sharply over the next 20 years and that Norwegian gas is expected to have a monthly market share in many of the largest EU countries’. At the same time, the same parties say that ‘the EU signals an increase in the taxation of the use of gas which may act as a customs duty’. There might be reason to ask how this relates. Is it the case that the EU wants Norwegian gas, or is it the case that they do not? So one thing at the end: there can be criticism of the treatment of the directive and of the odelstningsproposition. The centre lot and SV should be granted concessions in this respect. But the principle of these parties that once one is too late, then one can do it a little more, I hope not too many in Norway will use it. It may be that the debt collection agencies do not like such a procedure!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e869	The timetable in relation to this matter has been criticised. I can understand that when it comes to the odelstningsproposition. In the case of St.prp. No 42, it has been a hearing, and it has been a common, good treatment. The EU has said that it will intensify its work on new electricity and gas market directives and will try to get moving from 2004. We understand that. The Government aims at a simple implementation of these principles. It's clear that the Right would have wanted us to have had greater influence on the energy sector. Norway is a major power within energy. We could have more influence if we had been sitting around the table in the EU. Now we need to follow up on and implement the directives that are coming. Gas is important for Europe. We have concluded through the EEA Agreement that there will be free competition. Then we also have to accept that there will be free markets also for our products. We support the proposal to consent to the implementation of the Gas Market Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e887	The purpose of the Gas Market Directive is to open up the internal gas market in Europe to competition. This is achieved mainly by giving natural gas undertakings and qualified gas buyers the right of access to gas transmission and distribution pipelines. It is clear from the instigation of the Gas Market Directive that several EU Member States are very dependent on importing gas, and of course we as a large exporter of gas can enjoy this. It should also be pointed out that the internal gas market must be based on competition and established gradually. The Ministry points out in its proposal that the inclusion of the gas market directive in the EEA Agreement and its implementation in Norwegian legislation will not have a significant impact on Norway. The Gas Market Directive applies mainly in relation to the downstream sector, which is marginal at least as far as Norway is concerned. However, we have now recorded some scepticism from companies that operate or plan to operate downstream in Norway. We are pleased that, in response to questions raised by the Committee, the Ministry claims that one proposes implementing the Directive in the downstream sector, which should be as simple as possible within the framework of the Directive. In addition, the Ministry will assess the application of the exemption rules of the Directive, which must be adapted to the needs of the downstream industry. Many of the practical implications of the Directive have already been implemented by Norway. In this connection, I refer to the creation of a new State-owned company for the transport of natural gas that was treated by Stortinget last year in connection with the partial privatisation and listing of Statoil. In addition, the Gas Negotiation Committee has been terminated. Of course, the Gas Market Directive has several aspects, and there have been many contributions to the Committee, both in consultation and in writing to the members of the Committee. After an overall assessment, we have come to support the implementation of the gas market directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e900	The matter under consideration is a direct follow-up to decisions taken in Odelstinget earlier today on consent to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee, No. 123/2001 incorporating Directive 98/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in natural gas into Annex IV to the EEA Agreement. There is a broad majority in the Committee that agrees that the so-called gas market directive should be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, and I would therefore like to thank the Committee for its speedy and flexible examination of this matter – some say too quickly. The purpose of the Directive, which was also the subject of Mr Vaksdal, is to open up the internal market to competition. This must be achieved essentially by giving natural gas undertakings and so-called qualified gas buyers, i.e. customers, the right to access pipelines for the transmission and distribution of gas. ‘Such access shall be granted on a non-discriminatory and objective basis’, as it says. The fact that the Directive is provided for in the provisions of the EU Treaty on the establishment of the internal market is also relevant to the EEA. A majority of the Committee considers that the Ministry of Proposition argues that the inclusion of the Gas Market Directive in the EEA Agreement and its implementation in Norwegian legislation will not have a particular impact in relation to Norway. The Directive is essentially applicable in relation to the downstream sector, which is marginal in the case of Norway. It is available per year. today, no specific Norwegian legislation regulating the downstream gas market. Therefore, in relation to Norway, the rules of the Directive on the downstream sector will not have any significant impact. However, the majority have noted that the Ministry intends to implement the Directive in the downstream sector, which should be as simple as possible within the framework described by the Directive, including an assessment of the application of the exemption rules of the Directive and adapted to the needs of the downstream industry. The majority of the Committee has noted that the Ministry of Proposition states that the implementation of the Gas Market Directive in Norwegian law will also have no significant economic and administrative impact on the owners of the pipelines or on the gas vessels. Today, there is no right in the Petroleum Act for outside third parties to be able to access the Norwegian upstream pipelines. However, the law has always opened the way for outside third parties to negotiate access to upstream pipelines with their owners. Already today, there is a large proportion of third-party gas in the large pipelines on the Norwegian continental shelf. Third parties are currently other producers of gas on Norwegian continental shelf, while the Gas Market Directive, as mentioned above, will also imply that purchasers of gas are entitled to third-party access. However, the majority of the Committee assumes that this difference will not involve significant costs or have significant consequences for others. The majority assume that the changes made in this context to the Norwegian gas management system will both facilitate the maintenance of resource management by the Norwegian authorities to the extent necessary in the future, while allowing Norwegian gas producers to adapt to the structural changes that are now taking place in the European gas market. This will help to ensure the value creation from Norwegian pedestal. The changes made appear to be in line with the main principle that has always underpinned the formulation of Norwegian petroleum policy, namely that the oil and gas resources on Norwegian continental shelf should be managed to benefit the entire Norwegian community. The majority of the Committee considers that the new elements of the gas management system seem to take good account of the whole of Norwegian oil and gas policy. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have written out of the majority of the vote and have also explained their views – at least SV, so far. It has been argued in the debate that Norway – and this is especially the SV – by accepting this Directive will lose annual revenues of between DKK 9 and 10 billion. I believe the logic of this claim is failing and is based on the wrong premises. Those who argue for this seem to believe that the main purpose of the Directive is to make gas cheaper, not to establish common rules for the marketing of natural gas in Europe. In the setting, the minority refers only to Professor Noreng, who believes the effect of the implementation will be this way. It would have been desirable for the minority to have a broader factual basis for drawing such drastic conclusions. The development of the gas price and, consequently, the income of the state fund will not be determined by whether Norway agrees to the Directive or not. The sale of Norwegian natural gas from Norwegian continental shelf to the European market is a full commercial activity and will continue to be so. All IEA and EU forecasts show that gas consumption in the EU will increase significantly in the coming years. It also means that demand and supply will determine the price level of gas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e924	The size is today invited to incorporate the Gas Market Directive into the EEA Agreement and Norwegian legislation. This is a matter that can have a major impact on the management of Norwegian natural resources and the Norwegian economy. The centre party believes that Stortinget must take time for a much more thorough treatment than it has been provided for today. The impact of the Directive needs to be highlighted much better before it can possibly be incorporated into Norwegian legislation. In Norway, we have wanted to manage petroleum assets in an environmentally sound manner and for the benefit of the community. The political will to protect natural resources has been an important prerequisite for Norway to be one of the richest countries in the world today. The Gas Market Directive may make it more difficult to make long-term and good use of resources. The government has been in a great hurry to get the Stortinge to incorporate the directive. The deadline for notifying Norwegian accession to the Directive expired as known in April – one month before its transmission to Stortinget. I therefore do not understand that this has been made an urgent matter when the deadline has expired. The case had deserved more extensive investigations, more hearings and more opportunities to get answers to questions. One consultation was carried out in which all professionals who met, regardless of their EU position, were very sceptical about including the gas market directive so quickly. Professor Øystein Noreng of the BI School of Commerce stated that Norway's view of the EU on the liberalisation of the gas market appears to be credulous and that our negotiating position was weakened. He believed that Norway, for example, wait to implement the gas market directive until the gas markets in Germany and France are actually open. He also pointed out that we should use our negotiating position to ensure a greater share of the return on gas resources in Norway. In the opinion of many, the Directive could lead to an annual loss in Norwegian gas revenues of up to DKK 10 billion. The aim of the Directive is to liberalise the gas market and reduce prices to consumers. The Gas Market Directive implies that gas companies in the EU are gradually able to access the entire value chain, from the place of manufacture to the consumer. The result is that a greater proportion of the values will be collected in the EU instead of remaining in Norway. This reasoning contrasts with the information coming from the Government. In the big papers it is repeated several times that the ministry does not expect the changes to have ‘significant consequences’. The Minister for Oil and Energy writes in response to question No. 4 from the Committee that Norwegian petroleum activities will be marginally affected by the implementation of its upstream rules in Norway and emphasises that Norway is obliged to implement the Directive. In another response to the Committee, the Minister states that there is no basis for concreteising any number of lost gas revenues. The point is that when the views are so strongly based on assumptions, and the view of what can be achieved is so brilliant, it becomes clear that the record-breaking procedure we are now experiencing seems unfortunate. It is suggested here that Norway should be more attractive than the EU Member States should be able to implement new directives. Why is this legislation to be introduced more quickly by Norway than for example? Germany and France? Why can we not use more time to assess and impose conditions for the possible adoption of the directive? The centre party will vote in favour of the minority proposals, in which we will postpone the treatment of the gas market directive until the gas notification is available and until there are real results on content, balance and pace throughout the liberalisation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e945	The government is taking this proposition to include the Gas Market Directive as part of the EEA Agreement. In my view, the Committee has done a good job in this important matter, and I am very pleased with the support given by a solid majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment in the matter. Of course, I am also pleased that the Stortinge is now dealing with this proposition regarding the gas market directive in the spring session. As regards the question of the postponement of this matter, as several speakers have pointed out, I refer to the clarification and debate that was in connection with the Odelstingen proceedings earlier today. The Gas Market Directive has been adopted in the EU and Norway was active with central Member States and with the Commission as far as possible during the discussion in the Council on the Directive before it was adopted in 1998. The Gas Market Directive contains rules on the organisation of the gas sector and its functioning, including inter alia: on market opening through third party access to pipelines. The Directive also provides that third parties may be refused access to the pipelines under specified conditions, including inter alia: lack of capacity in the pipelines and consideration of gas sales contracts with payment obligations, so-called take-or-pay contracts. The design of the Gas Market Directive is essentially the low-developed downstream sector in Norway. The Ministry of Oil and Energy will promote a gas spill in Norway in the autumn of 2002. This Communication will outline how and under what conditions a downstream gas sector in Norway should develop in the future. At this stage, it has therefore been most appropriate to propose a framework law authorising the King to provide supplementary rules in the regulation. This was adopted at Odelstinget earlier today. The Gas Market Directive includes a separate provision that certain third parties should also be entitled to access upstream pipelines, such as landing pipelines from Norwegian continental shelf to the continent. To implement these rules of the Directive, Odelstinget has therefore adopted legislative amendments necessary to implement the main rules of the Directive for upstream pipelines in the Petroleum Act. These will be supplemented by regulatory provisions. The Gas Market Directive poses major challenges for Norwegian gas producers, but at the same time offers great opportunities for the same actors. The implementation of the Directive in other EEA countries allows Norwegian gas producers to position themselves in the European gas market. The challenges posed by the Gas Market Directive will largely affect Norway as a gas exporter, regardless of whether it is implemented in Norwegian law. In the case of Norwegian implementation of the Gas Directive, the only effect would be that, under certain conditions, access rights are granted to non-owners. However, this will have limited significance for Norway as a gas exporter. Already today, there is a high level of third-party use of Norwegian gas pipelines. It has been claimed that the implementation of the Gas Market Directive in Norway will lead to lower Norwegian gas sales revenue. I would like to make a few comments about this. The Directive primarily regulates how the EU organises its internal gas market. For Norway as a producer, developments in this market could have a general impact on the gas price. Such an effect will occur regardless of whether or not Norway implements the Directive nationally and will therefore also apply to all gas suppliers to the European gas market. Norway’s response to these challenges is to have a well integrated gas transport system, a neutral system operator, and strong, qualified oil companies such as Norwegian gas producers and sellers. In order to meet these challenges, the Government, in line with the powers of the Stortinge, which were given on the basis of St.prp. No 36 for 2000-2001 and Innst. S. No 198 for 2000-2001, established Gassco as a neutral system operator and initiated the creation of a common ownership of the gas transport systems, known as GasLed. In view of the above, I believe that the overall implementation of the gas market directive in Norwegian law will not have any consequences of particular importance for Norway as a gas exporter. We have already implemented the measures in question by the authorities, and the companies have also come a long way in facilitating such gas sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e977	The Central Party representative said in his statement earlier today that the department built its figures on assumptions. They figured we could lose 9 to 10 billion dollars a year. I assume that there are also assumptions. The Council of State says this will not have the great significance for Norwegian gas exports. GFU has been terminated. Much has been done in the reorganization of gas trade in Norway and abroad. Statoil has now entered into an agreement to sell without GFU. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of disagreement in this House about the consequences of incorporating the directive. I would ask the Council of State to consider a little more about what the inclusion of the directive would really mean in relation to today's position, and to say a little about why it is this disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e984	I have also commented on the question raised by the representative of Klungland in a letter to the Committee dated 16 May. That concerns question No. 3, where it was suggested in New Time on 3 May this year that the directive could cause a loss of DKK 10 billion, or DKK 300 billion over 30 years. I have commented on this in such a way that it is based on the assumption that the market would be heavily influenced by whether Norway implements the directive or not. It's not like that. It is the EU that, for its part, will implement this regardless of whether Norway implements it or not. Thus, the EU is creating the gas market, so that gas suppliers have to deal with this market for their own benefit. Now we are in the lucky situation that gas, especially Norwegian gas due to security of supply and quality in other ways, is in demand. So it's a balanced market, and it's like there's a need for additional supplies of Norwegian gas. Thus, the market is satisfactory in the sense that the price of gas is currently favourable. It shows, among other things: the recently concluded contract between Statoil and British buyers of 5 billion standard cubic metres of gas over 10 years is well, and is thus a significant delivery on long-term contracts. This shows, then, that the assumption that there should be a significant loss in implementation does not lead to correctness. I think these numbers are purely speculative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e991	As the Council of State said in its statement, it is important to take care of Norwegian downstream activities. It is a sector that has many plans. There has been some uncertainty with regard to the Gas Market Directive from some with such plans. In a letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy to the Committee dated 7 June, the Minister of Energy wrote: «The Ministry of Oil and Energy shall ensure that the implementation of the downstream rules of the Directive will not impede the establishment of gas infrastructure.» I guess that's good. However, it also states that the intention is to establish a prudent regulation of the market. In other words, the objective is a minimum implementation and the possibility of applying the exemption rules of the Directive. I would like the Council of State to take advantage of the opportunity to elaborate on these wordings a little more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1003	I would like to follow that call from the representative, Mr Korsberg, and it is also right that I should like to comment on this in a letter to the committee dated 7 June. To a small extent, downstream activities are implemented on a Norwegian base. Infrastructure from the downstream distribution of gas has been used only to a limited extent, but it is desirable from different assessments that we should be able to use more natural gas in Norway to a greater extent. We should therefore be careful when regulating, so that we do not inadvertently impose such strong restrictions and obstacles in practice that this does not get under way. It is a wish, as I have also understood The Storting, that we should facilitate the increased use of gas. I have therefore expressed my opinion that we will establish a cautious regulation of the market as far as the directive allows. Therefore, the law adopted by Odelstinget earlier today is also a framework law, which is to be supplemented by regulations. I propose that these regulations be adapted to a cautiously emerging market for natural gas in Norway. The intention shall be a positive signal to all companies that intend to operate downstream activities of natural gas, so that they can see that this is met with a positive and transparent attitude, and not with regulation that has the opposite effect. I would also just like to add that I add that the details of such a scheme for the regulation of the downstream gas market will be discussed in more detail in the announced gas message. We are already establishing regulations in the areas I have mentioned in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1014	I found it interesting when several of the representatives who have agreed to run this matter through at a great pace ask questions about some vital things. One question, among other things: on an amount of 10 billion, which has appeared, and which the Council of State has said in a letter to the Committee that there are speculations. However, the Council of State cannot guarantee any degree of loss in the implementation of the Gas Markets Directive. He doesn't have the right number either, because he doesn't know. That is why all the hearing bodies that were here in the house said that there must be a better time here. Here, an analysis of the different processes and the different conflicts between Norway, which sells gas, and the EU, that buy. The EU aims to buy cheap gas. But a number of them choose to go away from serious treatment and to a quick treatment to satisfy the right and the government. This is irresponsible, and answers the questions that those who have been involved in this process are now asking, you have to give them when the bill reports. But let me now hear what the Council of State can say about these numbers as a whole, because there are different interests, and because if one were to do like an oil, one should, of course, cooperate with those, Russia and Algeria, who sell gas. That's where our interests were selling. I would also like to ask: what does the Council of State think is the reason why all the hearing bodies, the European programme, the Centres for the European Network, and Øystein Noreng, are critical of the way in which the national assembly has now been overrun in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1025	I didn't attend that hearing, and I also wondered why someone came with that kind of number. Now it is not certain that all the hearing bodies considered the figure to be the way New Time presents it. However, it is clear that neither of course can the Council of State say anything certain about the price estimate, and it may be that due to the implementation of the gas market directive in the EU, the market will be more competitive. That is what has been the motivation of the EU to create free competition in the market, and would normally result in lower prices. So far we can't see that it has had a big effect on this. That's the numbers I reacted to, and that I was asked to comment, which makes me think it's purely speculative numbers, and there's no reason to say that the effect will be the one that's here. However, the point is that regardless of whether Norway implements this Directive or not, the sales conditions will be determined by the EU’s own implementation of the Gas Market Directive. That is where the pricing takes place, and I have also said in a letter to the Committee that if Norway were not to implement the Gas Directive for various reasons, the sales conditions and the pricing on the market will still be the same. Therefore, Norway does not have the influence on the pricing that would indicate that Norway should not implement the Directive. So I would say that this is necessary simply. This is an EEA-relevant Directive and we are subject to Norway’s international obligations under the EEA Agreement to implement it by decision of the EEA Committee. There are also questions about following only the commitments that you have entered into, as the EEA Agreement is part of the international legal basis on which Norway is obliged.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1030	It was mentioned earlier in the debate that we referred largely to the consultation round and, in particular, to Professor Noreng when it came to the concerns. I would therefore like to quote another person, who was not at the hearing, but who is quite familiar. It's Hallvard Bakke. He writes in a chronicle in the newspaper on April 8th. on a number of important issues that should have been discussed before the Stortinget takes a decision on the Gas Market Directive. Among other things, he mentions: the risk of transition to more short-term gas sales contracts, the risk of non-investment in fields and pipelines in the future, and the EU threat of fines on Norwegian companies. Hallvard Hill writes: ‘None of these issues for us so important have been discussed in the Government’s Proposition No. 42, which suggests that the new gas policy is almost unproblematic for Norway. The size should put the foot down’... ‘We should now think carefully through our gas policy’. ... ‘In the meantime, no significant new developments should be initiated and the Directive should be suspended.’ I think it might be interesting to hear what the government's view of this, and whether it would not have been an advantage to a more thorough investigation of these questions before the Stortinget makes its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1040	As far as I was noted from the post to the representative, Enger, there were three relationships Hallvard Bakke took up. One was the danger that we would be forced to conclude only short-term contracts; the other was the danger that we would be fined by the EU system if we did not comply, and the third was the danger, as far as I understood, that the Norwegian gas pipeline transport system would not be compatible with the EEA acquis. I have commented on two of these issues in a letter to the committee. One concerns the short-term contracts. It is clear that the EU looks in the same way as Norway sees the benefits of long-term contracts. Long-term, predictable and stable gas contracts are in line with the Gas Market Directive and do not conflict with it. Customers in the EU also see the benefit of their security of supply, and it has to be weighed against price. Deliverability and security are in fact part of the explanation that Norwegian gas achieves good prices. I have also commented on the second, namely the gas pipelines. Both the initiation of the transport system through Gassco and the initiation on the owner’s side by bringing together the owners of a ‘joint venture’ through Gassco are in line with the Gas Market Directive and have not been contested but supported by the EU system. This is a form of neutral operation of the piping system that ensures equal access for all customers and third parties to the piping system. I have not commented on the third point, and that is the danger that there will be fines or other kind of reactions from the EU system if we do not relate to legislation under the Gas Market Directive. At this point, I cannot see that the EU reacts differently from what happens to other obligations and directives. Then we have a clear procedure for how we should behave, and then fines and penalties are the way that the representative Enger mentioned, the last paragraph of this, and you tend to solve matters long before you get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1049	The condition for a market is that the functioning of the market has been determined. No one can initially control a market. That's exactly what's the challenge of such a system that we live in. At the hearings held in the Committee on 6 June this year, it appeared that liberalisation in the EU countries was hampering the resistance of France and Germany. It is therefore uncertain whether the downstream monopolies of transport companies and the regional retail monopolies will be liquidated. This may, in the view of the Workers' Party, affect the market. What is the Council of State's assessment as to whether there is no liberalisation in the EU while we are now incorporating the directive? What will the Council of State do with regard to the claim that there is resistance in France and Germany?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1058	The EEA Agreement is an agreement with equivalency, i.e. that all parties to the agreement are treated on equal terms and that all parties are equally bound by the law of the EEA Agreement. Of course, it is important for Norway to ensure that all parties are clean and consistent, including in terms of implementation. So this is a relationship you're aware of. I've registered the concern. For Norway, however, we will have to deal with this with the Commission if necessary, and of course we will ensure that the conditions on which Norway has undertaken and implemented are implemented in the same way on the European Union side. It is unacceptable that a distortion of competition should arise because the parties are different from the Gas Market Directive. I also have no reason to believe that this would represent a problem today, but if the type of issues arising from a level playing field should arise, Norway has an opportunity to address these issues through the EEA Committee in the same way as EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1071	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1076	It has been said that there are quite a number of assumptions that go beyond what will be the effects of the implementation of the gas market directive. That's absolutely right. There are many assumptions that go out and out, both in the case of the gas market directive and in the case of those that are against the implementation of the directive. It is just some of the problem and should be sufficient to make it reasonable to take some better time to investigate this matter more thoroughly and look at the consequences it will have, among other things. for future revenues from gas sales. Annex 1 to the suspension, letter from the Minister for Oil and Energy dated 28 May, states: ‘The Directive establishes that the objective of the Directive is to establish an internal gas market based on competition. Market liberalisation is thus the main intention of the Directive. The expected effect of such liberalisation has been to reduce prices to the consumer.» To believe that reduced prices to the consumer will not have consequences for the supplier is at best naive. It is quite obvious that it will also turn off the manufacturer. It's not like the Council of State said that Inger Enger in his reply to the Council of State claimed that we would have a transition only to short-term contracts, Inger Enger said a transition to more short-term contracts, and that's exactly what will be the situation. Of course, it will be possible to conclude long-term contracts and, of course, suppliers and customers will be interested in obtaining long-term contracts, but there will always be a residual capacity in the pipeline network that you will try to exploit. It can be used in one way and it is through spot sales on short-term contracts. This means that you do not compete for long-term or delivery skills. Spot contracts intended to exploit available capacity will be characterised by a lack of predictability. Then you have one tool, and there is competition on the price. This sale in a spot market for free pipeline capacity will push prices downwards and will also push prices of long-term contracts downwards over time. So in ten years' time, those who are in this agreement can claim that this has had no impact on revenue, because we have had a general trend that has resulted in lower prices. You can get to keep your words. It would be impossible to see what has been the direct reason why we will have a price drop. But that we will have a price decrease as a result of the fact that the pipeline network is now open to third parties and available capacity, in addition to the fact that the GFU and the coordination of resource management in it have already been suspended, I am not in doubt for a moment. To believe something else is, in my opinion, at best naive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1090	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3302]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1116	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3302]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1132	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President hopes that no one absolutely feels the need to take full advantage of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1145	The attitude and the big message that we are dealing with now, about a smaller and better state ownership, is, in the view of the Progress Party, one of the most important issues dealt with in the Storting in this spring session. The notification has been submitted following a proposal from the Government in the budget for the current year for a power to sell a number of State holdings. The majority of the population wanted a broader debate on issues of state ownership before possibly supporting the Government's proposal for such a sale. In particular, the Government was asked to discuss how the State could exercise a more professional ownership, how to secure active private ownership, and how Norwegian institutional investors could develop. The attitude to the biggest statement of ownership has become a comprehensive document on a very important matter, and, as everyone can see, significant changes have been made to the Government’s proposals. I would like to take to some extent the comments and proposals of the majority, assuming that the representatives of the various parties themselves present their views. In its comments, the Committee has taken as its starting point that the Communication does not only provide a basis for ownership policy, but is, in reality, a debate on the future of Norwegian business in a globalised economy. Despite the fact that Norway has the world’s most economically strong country, business experience a deterioration in competitiveness, increasing branching and, in part, significant decline. Thus, national strategies are becoming particularly important in a globalised world, as competition and vulnerability are increasing. These developments increase the requirements of the State as owner. The State may not, as before, use ownership to govern and regulate. The country's ownership role must be professionalised, while at the same time drawing a real distinction between the political and the business role. In the many consultations carried out by the Committee, the companies have clearly identified the importance of predictability and long-term ownership of the country. The issue is not whether it is the State that owns it as such, but the problem that may arise is that the market does not trust the State to act as a professional and commercial owner. The majority reject the Government's proposal to add all administrative responsibility to the Ministry of Industry. Such a solution means too close a link between political and commercial. It assumes that a formal distinction must be drawn between the political role and the business role. The majority have concluded that this should be done by removing the administrative responsibility for the State's holdings from the departments. One possibility is that by allocating the interests to two or more management companies with different competencies, both power and risk diversification can be achieved. Both the Fund for Social Security and the Argentum Fund and the proposed Structural Fund can be used in this context. This is what the Progress Party sees: the professionalisation of state ownership means that the difference between state and private ownership is much smaller than before. The ideological conflict between labour and capital of the industrial community has weathered. The state and private are no longer anti-pollutions in an ideological conflict. The fall of the wall has reinforced this development, which also has implications for the role-sharing between the state and the private sector. This is also the background to the fact that, in recent years, the Progress Party has placed a greater emphasis on the role of the State and the relationship between the State and the private sector. The ideological assessment of the role of the state by the industrial community in the knowledge society must be replaced by a professionalisation of the role of the state and partnership solutions between the state and the private sector. On the other hand, in the Progress Party, we share the government's concern for the dominant role of the state in Norway. That is why we have stressed that the Government needs to draw up a plan to strengthen private ownership. One of the reasons given by the Government for increased government sales is that this will strengthen Norwegian private owners. However, the reality is not that. The government’s proposed state-sales/sales, and in particular strategic companies, would most likely be sold to non-resident owners because Norway lacks private ownership environments that can compete for the values. It shows the experience of the sub-privatisation of both Statoil and Telenor. The Committee has examined the Government’s proposal for the sale/sale of State-owned companies. The Committee has no comments on some of the proposals. Others have proposed that the majority be restricted or further investigated. In any case, the majority believe that no sale must take place until there is a concrete plan to strengthen private ownership and the faster such a plan exists, the faster the power to sell the State could be given. In particular, it will be the Progress Party that will be positive in reducing the direct ownership of the country. The wording mentions a number of concrete proposals for action that such a plan should contain. Firstly, it is necessary to improve the general framework conditions and this should be done quickly. There are a number of weaknesses in the tax system that make it more tax-effective to invest capital in consumer goods than in active business. In particular, we have underlined the problems created by taxes on wealth for active owners. If, for Provenance reasons, there is no room for removing or implementing substantial tax relief now, the Government of the 2003 State Budget should consider how to remove the property tax in such a way that those who benefit from this benefit can be burdened if they choose to withdraw capital in the form of consumption. Secondly, the State should develop and continue instruments that strengthen the role of private individuals in an innovation process. The Government is therefore invited to submit proposals for new nationwide seed funds in the State budget for 2003 or in the context of the notified notification of the instrument. A similar system should also be established for incubators, which are now established throughout the country. Thirdly, the private interest in Argentum shows that there is a great need for state commercial participation also in the venture phase. This is the background to the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre that the State is increasing the allocation of Argentum Fund investment as an instrument to strengthen access to risk capital. Fourthly, we believe that a substantial amount of State Structural Fund should be set up. The background is the increasing branching of Norwegian business. Just as Norway was able to use raw materials such as hydropower, fish and ores to build Norwegian industry 100 years ago, we should now use the new commodity capital to preserve and develop the knowledge society’s Norwegian industry. The purpose of the Structural Fund should be to invest in privately owned internationally oriented companies in order to provide them with a better platform for the acquisition and structuring of companies. Or more clearly, in a global economy, it's about volume and capital strength. Norwegian companies face a competitive handicap as a result of a high cost and a lower capital base than many competitors. Through a State Structural Fund, the State may use its capital strength to support Norwegian companies under commercial conditions. Norwegian Forest, one of the most important and successful private companies in Norway, has proposed in a letter to the Committee the creation of a State Structural Fund of between DKK 50 billion and DKK 100 billion. It is pointed out that the time perspective for an investment may be three to five years. Both shares and subordinated loans should be used, but with normal commercial risk and return on investments. This is why the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre therefore propose that the Government investigate such a structural fund in the notified instrument notification, but no later than during the current year. In this context, let me also take a strong distance from the claims that, among other things, speakers from the Right and the Socialist Left have argued that such a structural fund should benefit Norwegian people. Such a structural fund would be our own export industry and those that are part of global competition that could benefit from. Many of these holdings are located in District Norway. Thus, Norway has significant opportunities to use economic instruments as part of a strategy for increased value creation for the benefit of the nation. Until now, the Norwegian authorities have refused to use the State’s capital strength as a comparative advantage for the development of Norwegian business. In this regard, I would like to refer to the conclusions of the book «The Problem of the Kingdom», mentioned in the Communication and edited by Kjell Roland, Torger Reve and no less than a State Council of the Bondevik II Government, namely Victor D. Norman. It appears from the book that as long as the state accounts for the majority of savings in Norway and this capital is almost systematically channelled out of the country, we have almost decided that large internationally oriented companies should be sold out. It will be difficult to anchor the ownership of major industrial systems in Norway. The Progress Party believes that through proposals and comments, either alone or in conjunction with other parties in the suspension, we have focused on and proposed action as monks, while at the same time strengthening private ownership and business activities. The improvement of risk capital access to start-up and innovation activities may, for example: ensure through seed funds and Argentum Fund investments with sound basic capital managed on a commercial basis with a significant risk profile to mainly Norwegian enterprises in Norway. It is also possible to contribute to an appropriate industrial structure by establishing the said Structural Fund with a significant size, where a significant part of the State's shares can be placed, together with a significant equity. The aim must be to contribute to a sensible and rational structure in the main sectors of Norwegian business in a European and global market. The fund shall be kept separate from the authorities and shall operate in accordance with sound commercial principles and with sound risk capital. Such a Structural Fund may be established by building on the current organisation and activities of the Social Security Fund, but with other statutes. Indeed, the international market actors do not regard the Folketry Fund as the State, but as a private operator in line with the portfolios of the insurance companies, which can also act as owners on major structural issues. For the purposes of securing part of the country's pension liabilities, it may be done by transforming the Petroleum Fund into a real pension fund, based on a significant part of the portfolio management with a minimum or limited risk profile. The purpose of pensions should be ensured by means of constitutional protection. In total, all of this will create a comprehensive system to ensure increased access to risk capital, better opportunities for the development of a sensible, long-term business structure and a partially funded pension system, which will greatly contribute to the reduction of direct government ownership. However, it is essential that the fund structures are established before the sale and transfer of shares from the State to the funds. Another aspect of the country’s ownership discussion is the consideration of important national interests. It is a crossroads of thought that today almost all the most strategic companies in Norway are wholly or partly owned by the state. This is a clear change from a few decades back, and is a consequence of the fact that in the global economy it is largely about buying or being bought. Without sufficient volume, capital strength and competence, Norwegian companies will disappear abroad. The importance of the state as a strategic owner is far more important than before. Finally, as indicated in the suspension, the bulk of the population has changed the Government’s proposals in significant respects. This concerns the organisation of state ownership and the importance of cooperation solutions between state and private, in particular with regard to the raising of seed capital, and the Government's proposal for the sale of seed to individual companies, which will not be implemented in the short term at least. On the other hand, if the Government submits a plan to strengthen its private, Norwegian ownership, the Progress Party is set to contribute to a sale down in state enterprises. This is urgent if we are to stop the branching of Norwegian business that we have probably only seen in the beginning of, and prevent partial privatisation from just a sale out of Norway, as happened with Telenor and Statoil. Responsibility for proposing such a plan now lies with the Government. I would like to raise the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 6 and 7, included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1206	The representative has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1211	In previous years, the Progress Party has been with the Right to want to sell to state companies. The party argued in principle that the State should reduce its holdings in companies in which the State is the owner or the joint owner. By the time the 2001 budget was examined, the Progress Party, together with the Right, stated that the two parties would have a degressive plan in all companies in which the State holds interests. It is clear that the Progress Party has now adopted a different position. I have heard that one of the reasons for the turnaround of the Progress Party is that the state has become so rich and has so much money. I would therefore like to inform the representative Hedstrøm that the state has not become much richer during the last year. Moreover, last year there were also quite certain forecasts of where the rich state of Norway would be in 2002. I therefore ask that the representative Hedstrøm provide an explanation of what makes the reality of the Progress Party so completely different from state ownership from 2001 to 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1220	It is true that the Progress Party earlier went further than the Right, and would go faster than the Right for the sale and sale of state businesses. But with our new program, adopted at the national meeting last year, there has been a shift. We still want to sell and sell state-owned businesses, especially non-strategic companies, but we want to hurry slowly. Most of us remember the centurion's anniversary. He then predicted a reduction of 60,000 industrial jobs in Norway up to 2010. So it's gradually changed, and even though it's going to be the national meeting and program every four years that might be the best thing to do for each party when it changes policy, it's crystallized by this ownership announcement. We want to speed up sales and sales because we want a plan in place first. We do not want the values to be transferred to the Petroleum Fund and invested in Chase Manhattan Bank, The Coca-Cola Company, Ford Motors, The Texas Company, without creating a single job in Norway, or creating special ringing effects for Norwegian industry. That planlessness takes the Party of Advancement away from. That's why we want to figure out different fund structures. We look at our neighbouring country, Sweden, where the AP funds and pension funds – yes, they actually have funding solutions ready – have been used since the 1960s with success for Swedish industry and with good returns internationally. What they're arguing about in Sweden is how much of the money they're going to put in Sweden and how much internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1229	Several have not asked for the word in reply, and we go back to the ordinary list of speakers. I'm sorry, the president didn't ask Sanner to speak, did he ask for the floor before the president ended the change of line, or while the president did?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1234	Now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1241	But it doesn't work, sorry, you get to stick to the rules. Olav Aksensen is next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1246	The world is in total change. Globalisation is growing. The land limits are getting smaller and smaller. This is what we see in most areas of society, but it is particularly true for business. Mergers and acquisitions are taking place at an increasing rate. Size becomes more important and important in most industries. It's about buying or being bought, eating or being eaten. Size and network are essential to close, and access to capital is essential to hang with. The market is also in total change. While a few decades ago business was largely based on the further processing of local raw materials for a local market, today competition from enterprises located in whole other parts of the world is becoming increasingly widespread. Sub-contractors and customers may also be located on the other side of the globe. Global business is becoming more and more daring together. Crises in other parts of the world also affect Norwegian business, which includes: looked after the terrorist acts in the United States on 11 September last year. Norway has a small and very open economy, and even very large Norwegian companies are becoming small in an international context. It provides special challenges for Norway. For the Workers' Party, a part of the good life is to have good, stable and interesting jobs for the inhabitants and a secure income base for future generations. It is therefore important for us to ensure that some important companies are run from Norway and that companies have headquarters and important functions as research and development departments located here in the country. We have to avoid Norway becoming a branch country where all business is directed from abroad. Unfortunately, the message we are discussing today does not answer the challenges we are currently facing. I don't want to criticize the Government for that, because when the ideology that the state should have the least possible, controls the content, it has to be that way. But for those who have a wider perspective, for example: How to keep Norwegian companies informed, this message will be too narrow in content. Only ownership provides the basis for corporate governance. Private Norwegian ownership is limited. Therefore, only an active State involvement can ensure the necessary ownership. The government will sell down to one-third in strategically important companies. By owning one third of the axes in a company, the state will easily come into a state of stress if the other owners gather against the state. If the state only owns the minimum of them needed to have negative control over a company, a company will also be prevented from using the axes in a trade, for example. Hydro did when they took over Saga. Therefore, according to the Labour Party’s view, the State should have a buffer so that the power of action is greater than a mere ownership of a minimum of what is necessary to have control in a company. Fortunately, the government's proposal for a massive state hall in key Norwegian companies is not getting any more today. If the Government had implemented its plan, the axans would have been transferred mainly to foreign owners, while the revenues received by the government from the sale would have been placed in foreign business through the oil fund. Norway is currently in a unique financial situation and has abundant access to capital. According to the Labour Party's view, we should take this opportunity to see if it was possible to use any of that capital wealth to meet the challenges of the globalised economy giving Norwegian industry. We should see if it was possible to combine state capital wealth with business capital requirements. The government's strategy to strengthen private ownership is essentially tax havens. In order to improve the knowledge of how a tax conversion will work, the government has reduced a public selection to review the tax system and make proposals for changes. We in the Workers' Party support this work, but we will of course be quite free to consider the suggestions that may come with the selection. Similarly, we wanted to find out if there are other ways to strengthen Norwegian ownership. Such a way could be the creation of a Structural Fund. But even if we in the Labour Party support the allocation of such a fund, we will of course also be free here to evaluate the contents of such a fund when it is finished. In the same way that we in the Labour Party want to know more about how changes in the tax system will turn out, we also want to know how such a fund could work. This knowledge has Government for unknown reasons of panic in order to get. Yes, so big is the panic in the government party that they have paid SEK 1 billion to let go of acquiring this knowledge. I cannot understand other than that there must be a very expensive payment too little. For the Labour Party, I would at least say that we will of course go towards the creation of a Structural Fund, if it has the negative consequences that some claim. But unfortunately, that knowledge doesn't allow us to gain in this game. With the exception of throughput to sell Entra Eiendom AS and Raufoss ASA, the government has suffered total defeat in this matter. About the only thing left of the message is the ability to sell police stations, emergency printers' offices and other public buildings, so that the state has to hire them back. What kind of logic is behind such a scheme, I have to admit that I have trouble seeing, but that they want to transfer values to the private ones, there may be no doubt about it. At the sale of Raufoss ASA, there is a high risk that the company will be extinguished by a large foreign competitor and that production will be moved out of Norway. I thought it was stupid that the plural took this chance today. The state will be the most important owner of Norwegian business for a long time. Therefore, it is particularly important that the State exercise a professional ownership, both in order to safeguard the capital invested in the company and in order to safeguard those companies owned by the State in whole or in part. The government wants to collect as much as possible of that state's own, in one department. I'm overindulging that this is not the best way to manage the values and companies owned by the state. There's too much spreading in that state to be able to get an offensive owner's follow-up by collecting all one owner in one place. I am therefore very pleased that a multiple will oblige the Government to set up a selection to look at better ways to organise the country's ownership. In one area, I agree with the Government. The general framework conditions must be in place to have an up-to-date business. I can only note that Norwegian export rights business wear more than in very many years. We have problems with high interest rates. We have an unusually strong crown price – the strongest in ten years – and in the last few years we have had very expensive wage settlements. This is now reflected in reduced halls, reduced revenues and missing surpluses in very many Norwegian export companies. Many jobs are as a result of this delay and are at risk. I cannot see that the Government has contributed significantly to improving the situation of Norwegian export companies today. Later in the week, we will deal with the revised national budget here in the Chamber. I just have to say that the government doesn't use it the ability to improve the framework conditions for our industry. It's a shame, because now it's starting to rush. If we are not able to reverse this trend, I am afraid that the issue of ownership will be subordinated. Therefore, we in the Labour Party benefit from revised national budgets to propose a business package. With a less expansive approach than that of the Government and with specific measures aimed at the business community, we show that we are taking the challenges seriously. Unfortunately, there were no multiples to take these necessary steps in the right direction in this game. In the Labour Party, we are pleased that today there will not be a majority of the government's grand plans to sell in and out of a number of Norwegian companies. With the plural scheme, everything is now at the ready of an ever-increasing and important commitment from the state. This is in line with the long-standing Labour Party policy. It is positive that the majority this evening is behind this line, and I expect of course that the Government will take note of this, and that the various proposals that are being presented to us today are followed up. Finally, I want to put forward the suggestions that the Labour Party is behind alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1288	Olav Akselsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1294	I record that it is a little selective what kind of knowledge the Workers' Party is calling for, almost on a case-by-case basis. Now the government parties and SV are accused of not wanting to know about this so-called state-owned Structural Fund of considerable size. In terms of this knowledge, I think, to be honest, we know a lot of the tracks, we know the suppliers, we know the business ideas, and we actually know a little bit about the attempts to practice this. We don't have to go very far from here, to the neighbouring municipality where we find some of the traces of the practical results in terms of IT fornebu. The funny thing is that yesterday in the kindergarten debate, as there was perhaps even more need for knowledge, the Workers' Party did not want this kind of knowledge that you want others to take in on other matters today. What's a little strange, though, is that we can't find any principal traces of the Labour Party's ownership policy. If you sit in the position, you get to the Stortinget, as you did in June of a year ago, when you asked the Stortinget for a quick treatment to get a mandate for a quick sale in Telenor ASA. This time one sanctifies by saying that we go in principle for 51 pst. What is it that has fundamentally changed in this year, other than that the Workers' Party from being in position has come into opposition? At the same time, there is reason to remember that the Workers' Party acknowledges that we are missing Norwegian ownership environments that are able to meet the challenge we are talking about here today. What kind of strategy does the Workers' Party really have to strengthen and upgrade the Norwegian ownership environment? We find none of these desired traces in the comments on this matter here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1305	In this context, the most important thing for the Workers' Party has been to see a stopper for the Government's uncritical plan to sell out of Norwegian business. Thank God we've done that. If you read our comments, you'll see that there's a principle line at the root of our position in this area. The Labour Party has always meant that the state should play an important role in Norwegian business. There are, of course, examples of poor state ownership, as there are examples of poor private ownership, but in Norway we have good experience in my view that the state can play a positive and important role in business. So that's the way I did it in my post, that the world is changing completely, and that means that we have other challenges today than what we had a couple of years ago, and that should also be right inward. Today, if the state sells out, one will be very much bought up by larger foreign competitors, and these companies will instead become branches of foreign companies. When it's related to Telenor, it's asked what's the principal difference from last year. It's not there. The only thing the working party does today is confirm and specify what we stood for last year. Last year, one was in an entirely up-to-date and acute situation where Telenor was negotiating to take over another company, and in that context, one might have to use the axes. The working party has opened up for the use of axes, and it has always been suggested that if Telenor is to buy up in another company, they should do so, among other things. by using the axes, and if the country's ownership interest in the company is to fall, it shall be by watering out the country. Now we have a government that is very busy selling out in the most possible way by the state's own, and so we had to clarify this, so one here didn't sell down to one-third in Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1316	The Chairman of the Committee noted the urgent need for instruments to strengthen Norwegian industrial activities. He was also concerned with this with taxes, that the conclusions of the Skauge Committee would be awaited, and that the Workers' Party would draw its conclusions in the light of it. In this attitude, an overall business committee shows that the tax and tax level as a percentage of GDP is above the average in Europe and that we have schemes that favour passive ownership. It is more beneficial to invest in Hafjell and Blindleia than in business and take a risk and collect a profit that way. For the Progress Party, it is very important to get rid of the property tax. But a majority of the committee, which is not a majority here in the Chamber, says that there are policy considerations for distribution that have been most important when there have not been changes in the current wealth tax. Therefore, it is proposed to investigate how taxation of food wealth can be eliminated without any progeny or distributional consequences. My question to the manager is: can the Workers' Party participate in the removal of the property tax on food wealth if the containment is provided to such a device?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1327	For many years, we have heard the claim that the level of taxation in Norway is much higher than in other countries in Europe. New distributions show that this is not the case. The level of taxation is about the same as that in our competitors, but the arrangements are different. The background for having a tax is twofold: it is intended to obtain revenue from the State, but for the Workers' Party, the distributional effects have always been important. The Labour Party insists that we want to smooth out in society. This means that those who have the strongest back should also bear the largest stockpiles and thus contribute more to the treasury through the tax haven. So it's like there's going to be a deal going on. We wait for it with voltage, and we have no locked positions in advance. We want, of course, tax models that will stimulate commercial activity in Norway and also make it possible to own and operate commercial activities in Norway. But at the same time, it will always be important from the Labour Party to take care of the distribution policy aspects of tax issues. When it comes to the specific proposal, I would like to point out in the vote that we also want to join in and evaluate that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1338	Under the hood. 2.2 The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party have reached the following conclusion: ‘The build-up of competences, innovation and dissemination of technological innovations mean that countries with higher levels of government have not had lower economic growth than countries with higher private impacts.’ My comment about the Akselsen must be: there is no evidence here that having a strong public ownership gives a better gain. So we could come to the opposite conclusion, that it might make sense to use more private ownership. Item No 2: When does the Labour Party see a more favorable time to begin thinking about strengthening private ownership, that is, perhaps the state is selling out? And point number. 3: Isn’t there a danger that the state may become too dominant as a business owner, as is the situation in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1352	This line probably shows that we are primarily on different globes when we evaluate this question. We now experience a globalization without equal. And it is that in very many industries where Norwegian companies claimed well a few years ago, among other things. in the rigging industry, there is today, despite the fact that one had large international companies and a high international competence, no Norwegian owner’s environment again, no Norwegian company, simply because these companies have been purchased from abroad. That's why I had hoped that one could take in this new knowledge and try to get rid of some of the ideology that's been driving this debate for the last ten years. I believe that the Labour Party has done so far in the way. State ownership is no longer an end in itself, nor is it such that the Labour Party will use state ownership to govern, as was done in the 1950s, 1960s, and in part 1970s. We want to control laws and regulations and have the same rules for private companies. So it's like we have completely different challenges. Part of the challenges is to take care of and further develop enterprises with Norwegian owners. As we see it, the only guarantee that it can happen is that the state has a large part of these companies. Of course, it is not such that we can prove that the fact that the state has a large proportion of Norwegian business has helped Norway to develop better than others. But at least I think our experience proves that state ownership in business can be very well combined with positive development and efficient operation, unlike what many have claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1363	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1366	Let me begin by commending the case rapporteur for his work on this big, heavy and important matter. He has – as usual – prepared the matter well, although I have to stress that this time it will probably come to the conclusion that I do not adhere as much to his recommendations as has been usual. The abuse of the ownership message has caused several surprises. However, when we vote tonight, I am pleased that the Government's proposals are essentially given a majority, although somewhat variable majority. The Storting Message has its background from the Sem Declaration, where the objective is that the State should clear up its ownership of the business and at the same time define what you want with ownership on a case-by-case basis. The paper is a thorough political craft, which addresses several fundamental issues that require a great deal of clarification. However, the political stability and firmness of positions and programme declarations in this house is not what it once was. Therefore, the matter has created great room for surprises. In some cases during the process, I have asked myself whether there is an equally strong motivation for individual parties to apply to the Government scratches in the paint as to stand by previous positions and attitudes. In the context of the 2001 State Budget, the Right Party and the Progressive Party agreed on the following comments: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right point out that it is not a natural task for the State to engage in business. The starting point for a well-functioning economy is that private enterprises operate in a market where regulation is limited to competition, safety and environmental requirements. The best means of promoting national ownership, employment and growth in business are competitive framework conditions and a low level of taxation. These members stress that the State should therefore concentrate on creating competitive framework conditions and designing transparent legislation. Private, competent ownership can help to strengthen the market contact of state enterprises, provide them with access to a wider technological and commercial environment and a wider international interface. Those members consider that, in this context, the State should liquidate its business exposure to companies for which special considerations do not provide otherwise.’;» On this basis, the following proposals were made: ‘The Government is asked to submit a degressive plan for the state’s interests in the Norwegian business community. The proposal should include a decommissioning plan for all enterprises in which the State holds interests, where appropriate an assessment of the specific considerations that should remain State ownership.’;» That is exactly what the government has provided, in line with the comment I referred to. It is therefore sad to see that the Progress Party then until those degrees have changed the political side and the stand. When the Progress Party, which has the case rapporteur in connection with this message they themselves have requested, now wants the opposite of what they did a little over a year ago, you can really talk about the emperor's new clothes. The Ownership Communication is precisely in line with the request of the Right Party and the Progress Party just over a year ago: to make a clear distinction between the different roles of the State as sectoral policy authority, supervisory authority and owner respectively. In today's globalised world, the role of both the owner and the regulatory authority should and should be primarily focused on acting predictable and professionally, and not least on being able to distinguish between their different roles. Then I have to add that it is with great relief that I can state that the proposal to investigate the need for and organisation of a government structural fund of significant size will fall. Forces from the Norwegian Investor Forum do not exactly talk about small amounts of money when they refer to the amounts they deem necessary by the State as a contribution to increasing the capital strength of their own and, where appropriate, of others. I am pleased that the government parties got an SV into an agreement that helps to phase out the Structural Fund, and at the same time helps to increase the capital strength of business development in District-Norway. I recognise the arguments of the proposers who want to fire off the Structural Fund start-up shot. It is interesting to note that while most politicians, with many exceptions, have been the enthusiasts to distribute oil money to at least individuals, some of the richest billionaires in the country are applauding the Structural Fund idea. State funds in the billion class would mean that ordinary workers had subsidized the richest in Norway with risk capital. The proposal of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre simply violates the idea that we need to create the framework conditions so that everyone can get a fair return on their investments, not that those who are most economically equipped will also get the best conditions from the State. Another scare picture presented in the debate on the ownership notification is the claim that ‘Norway is bought up by non-residents’. According to the UN publication World Investment Report, foreign direct investment in Norway in 2000 amounted to DKK 53 billion, while Norwegian direct investment abroad amounted to DKK 73 billion. In the public debate, the concern is that foreign owners have become too many and too large, not that there is usually a positive outcome for the country with entries of foreign ownership. There is further reason to be amazed at the reverse operations of the Workers' Party in their attitudes to individual enterprises with state ownership. Where one was previously to give authority to the Government, these are now withdrawn. Yes, the working party is now also acting with a so-called 10 pst buffer. additional state ownership, to be placed at the top of the 34 pst limit. Whoever you do not trust in in this guarding process, I had hoped that we could get an answer tonight. I had probably expected that the Workers' Party, which has taken on the ambition to become new and modern, had given us some signals on how to strengthen private ownership in Norway, how to facilitate the stimulation of private ownership environments. But the one looking in the setting, unfortunately, is looking in vain. Finally, I will address the proposals from the Right, SV and Christian People's Party, no. 1 and 2. With regard to the Committee's recommendation to Decision V, it is to be seen as following up by the Government on what may result from the selection work proposed in proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox In this context, I would recommend that the government parties vote in favour of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1407	Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1412	The Government Parties agree to explore a system of regional funds to contribute to the strengthening of capital to the districts of Norway. There is nothing in the attitude as to whether there should be one or more regional funds. There is nothing about the arrangement of this or these funds. Should there be a variant of SND Invest, which the Storting has decided to privatise, or should there be an extension of the so-called regional seed funds? In the evening post yesterday we could read claims that there was a written agreement and promises of NOK 1 billion for this fund. So it could be good to ask the representative Kristiansen to give more information about what the government has been thinking. I also expect the Department, the Minister of Industry and the Government to be informed about this when it comes to such large amounts. And is there going to be all the appropriations in the 2003 government budget for these regional funds? As far as this is concerned with a structural fund, I do not understand that there are problems in finding out. We got a letter from Jan Reinås. He is not a member of the Norwegian Investor Forum, but of the NHO, which is close to the Right, and they are very busy linking Norwegian natural resources to mature companies to help get Norway out of the commodity clamp. I think it is a very good proposal he has made, and that should have deserved further investigation. And I can't really understand that the government parties had anything against this, but instead prioritizes, if that's right, $1 billion to fund a regional fund for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1420	I notice with considerable interest that now tonight is trying to tone down the ambitions of this so-called State Structural Fund of considerable economic importance. I am not so sure that it is quite representative of what you really want, and I feel quite confident that the proposers, who have the ambition to establish this fund – probably in the order of 50-100 billion kroner – are serious about this. I find no other signals so far in the debate and in the hearings we have had, among other things. with the Norwegian Investor Forum, which has indicated that this is not serious. And with the consequences that we see this getting, where we reduce the possibility of the Petroleum Fund's returns, and send this out on a new, uncertain and many more risky sails, it should just be lacking that we do not vote against this. Then the agreement with SV for small money is to be counted, for the benefit of District Norway and the company development in District Norway, in relation to this experiment that you now want to investigate, and probably want to get started. It is quite correct that the government parties have signed a written agreement with SV. The amount of 1 billion that is implied by Hedstrom is part of the agreement. It is also part of the agreement that the Government has a deadline of 1 February 2003 to investigate the issue of the organisation of the Enterprise Development Fund. But this is very serious from the point of view of the partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1427	In recent years, the Storting has granted large amounts to Statkraft so that they have had the opportunity to make various purchases. We have seen that Statkraft has been very offensive on the track in a number of parts of the country where you want to buy up county, municipal and private e-works. In the Communication, we see that government parties clearly signal that they want to convert State power into AS in the long term, and we also want, as it says, to include ‘strategic alliances’. I believe that many of the municipalities and county councils that have sold parts of or all of the e-works believed that when they sold to Statkraft, they were sure that this became public property in the future. One felt sure that selling to Statekraft was selling to the state, and so one wanted to make sure that this was the property of the Norwegian people, if not municipal, so at least stately. My question to Kristiansen will therefore be as follows: Is it not Right that if you create a limited company of Statkraft and start to enter into strategic alliances, then the Norwegian ownership will gradually become watered down, and that you can experience that there will eventually be foreigners taking over Norwegian hydropower properties? And doesn't it seem to be problematic to those municipalities that have sold in good faith to Statkraft, that you can see that it will be foreign owners who will actually control their natural resources in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1434	With regard to the EU competition authorities, it may be necessary that this case be adequately investigated, so that we can obtain answers to the questions asked by ESA in particular. the institution of the place of residence. Furthermore, I think that there are some people in this room who have a somewhat nostalgic relationship with Statkraft. And you have the full right to have that. It would certainly just be missing that you don't have it too. But I think that time is over, as I suggested someone goes around and thinks, that Statkraft has as a business idea to act as a kind of supplier of cheap power, especially to the industrial hub in Norway's country. Unfortunately, that time has passed. Nor is it any longer near being the business idea of Statkraft. They have long other ambitions, including: being a major player in the northern European market. Therefore, I believe that if we go the way of letting Statkraft become a possible public limited liability company, it will give the company more flexibility. It will give them greater access to capital on the free market, and it could also open up the possibility of being a solid player in a possible Nordic solution. But these questions I think we and Ryan's representative have a number of opportunities to come back to. I have not heard that someone in the Right Party or in the Government Party has put some leadership in order for us to sell ourselves under a controlling post in Statkraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1439	The representative Kristiansen did not spend much of his speaking time talking about the Right's own policy, but basically stayed more concerned with other parties' policies. Among other things, he mentioned: the need for predictability and professionalism of state ownership. Of course, you can ask yourself how professional and predictable it is to take 84 pst. the return on State power of a revised national budget, when a dividend profile of 50 pst has already been established. of annual earnings per year years. It is not certain that the company perceives it as very professional, but now leave it. He also pointed out the lack of firmness and consistency in relation to the previous position of individual batches. Let me dwell a little on that, because the central party is behind a proposal in this setting that deals with the tax conditions for private, active owners. We are concerned that private, active owners should be given better conditions, also in relation to institutional investors. Many of them are today in a situation where they are plagued by exactly the same competitive disadvantage as other mainland industries feel, both acute export problems and problems in relation to the strong dollar price. In such a context, it could be natural, as a first step, to remove the taxes on wealth on economic assets. There is a proposal on the right-hand side in the past that they have voted in favour of, but which they have not joined in this vote. We know today that there is no majority in the Storting to remove the entire wealth tax, as the Right wills, but it has been a majority earlier in this Chamber to remove that part of the wealth tax that deals with economic assets. The question is – if you demand a little firmness and consistency from others – whether there is firmness and consistency in the Right to agree on a proposal that they have previously voted for to remove the taxes on wealth for economic assets?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1448	I don't think anyone in this country is going to have to lose sleep because of the concern that it's not very high on the Right's ambition list to get the property tax removed in Norway. But it would look strange if the government were now to get a random menu of proposals from the Central Party that go in a lot of different directions, while at the same time they have reduced the Skauge Committee, which is just sitting and investigating these questions, with a clear marching earth from the Government and an ambition that is clearly moving towards not only what the representative Arnstad wants, but also seeing this in a slightly wider context. When I say ‘in a slightly larger context’, I’m not quite sure that our roads and the Central Party’s roads are going completely parallel, at least not if we’re going to cross any borders. So I don't know if there's any reason to be surprised that the Center Party chooses Statkraft as the company with which you have the greatest sympathy in this ownership debate. I think there are many others who could have deserved to get a lot more attention. There is hardly one company in this country that has received more state attention over the last few years than exactly State power. They have almost been in line to offer the company billions in renewed equity, and they have certainly received about everything they have asked for. I'm not sure that's going to be the situation in the future, but I'm not able to share the same concern about the financial sustainability of State Power to meet the future, as the representative Arnstad does. There are other companies that deserve more consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1455	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1458	SV wants the state to be a large and heavy owner in Norwegian society. We want the state to have significant ownership of Norwegian natural resources. We know – sail if one can be accused of being nostalgic when one says it – that historically we have built this country by having control of the large natural resources, harvested by the large natural resources and built it that way. We should also be able to do so in the future and to facilitate future generations to reap from these resources. Likewise, we're concerned that we're going to be heavy owners within a part of the locomotives. We have a few heavy locomotives in Norway, which in a way are crucial for an up-to-date business. Here, too, we believe that the State should have a significant role. The third thing that I want to do is about the infrastructure block, the state has control over important areas of infrastructure like telecommunications and electricity, so that we make sure that we get an equivalent offer across the country and can have both hands on the steering wheel in such important areas. So someone wants to ask, why is it so necessary for the state to do this? First of all, the state has to make money on it. SV believes that there is nothing to suggest that the state should not be able to make good money to be the owner of these important companies. Secondly, we must safeguard the resources of the Norwegian people. We must safeguard the resources of the Norwegian people where we have a dualistic thinking. There is a dualistic thinking in some areas where you have to make money, but sometimes you also have to take socio-economic considerations into account when making different decisions. We can't build a society where we only think business economy. Then we get a society that at least SV doesn't want to. That doesn't mean we're saying that we're not going to have companies that make money, because it has to be the focus of every business. Make the most of the money, but not at any cost! And sometimes there are other reasons that need to be taken care of in addition to the business economy. Thirdly, it is important that we own these important businesses, so that we can pass them on to future generations. Our descendants also deserve to be allowed to take care of the oil in the North Sea, the farms, the power plants, etc., and not only had to look at them after we left them to others other than the Norwegian state. We see in the message that the government is adding up to a significant sale for which there is no majority. What's the problem of sales, someone says. Well, the problem with sales is that it's the beginning of something that we really don't see the end of. Or maybe we'll see the end of it. A good chess player is always seeing three-four moves forward. And it's possible that the Minister of Industry is an excellent chess player, where he sees three-four moves forward, where he starts by converting from businesses to AS, so in the next round it becomes partial privatisation, so in the third term it becomes even more partial privatisation, and then in the fourth term it's chess math, over and out, away with it. That's the problem when you start this carousel with sales. That's why we in SV are very critical of any sale, because it's the beginning of something that we fear can become dramatic for the Norwegian community. If we had had famine in the country, we had been missing, and we had no clothes, and the kids had no food, SV would have had a dialogue with the Government to sell out part of the state property, so that we could get the people food and clothes. But as far as I know, there is no need in Norway today – from Finnmark in the North and to Agder in the South – where there is a great lack of money. That's why we don't need this money. It's actually a problem for us what to do with this money when we get them in. And then it's too incomprehensible that in such a situation, where we have too much money in society, we're going to get even more money, while getting rid of important businesses and important natural resources, where we can actually keep the whole source and harvest every year. We don't rock at all, we harvest every year. There must be a much better way of managing these businesses. The practice of ownership is another theme of the message. During the hearings in the committee, we had, among other things: Kongsberg Group inside. They told us in the committee that the state had been an excellent owner when they were going from being a weapon manufacturer to bet on maritime technology. Former State Council of the Right, now chairman of the Municipal Bank, was in no doubt that the State was the best owner. So there are many examples that show that the state is actually an excellent owner. But in some areas, the state is a poor owner, and there the Minister of Industry has a special responsibility to make sure that you get closer and do a better job. And one of the areas where we are too bad owners is in relation to Statkraft, when we give them so unpredictable framework conditions that we jump back and forth in terms of dividend policy. It is added to the funding. I'm not going to go into all the areas where it's added up to funding, but let me stay with the fund that SV is most happy to have in place during this treatment. It is the fund that is to go to nutrient-poor areas in the districts. We submitted the proposal in Stortinget on 9 January. It was not much to hear about it then, but we see that the proposal has matured quickly. Today, we have a majority to set up an Enterprise Development Fund for the most economically poor areas in Norway, where the population is about to give up, where there is actually a need to move away because there is a shortage of jobs. For us in SV, it's a big day when we've got this nutrition development fund in place, and I want to quote one of the directors of the SND, who says that this is one of the most important decisions being made in relation to Norwegian district policy, where one in a way turns a pessimism into an optimism in the most vulnerable areas of Norway, where we're now going to take a boost to get jobs and activity up. Therefore, we are pleased that we have reached an agreement with the government parties where we have already set aside NOK 1 billion, so that we get started with this important work. SV is pleased that there will be significantly less sales of state enterprises than it had been provided for. In the message, it has "a smaller and better state ownership". After this treatment it will probably be called a slightly smaller and much better state ownership. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1481	The representative Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1486	Like SV, Right also wants a strong state, but we want a limited state, and we want to limit the state's ownership. In its most savory part of the post, the representative Ryan was inside what we would have done if we had had a famine. It brings my mind into the literature and «and behind the woods sing», where Dag Bjørndal came to think that he should make those who were housekeepers, self-owners. He did so on the basis of a reasoning that they should be middle-minded and thoughtful, as he said. It emphasises precisely what is the Right’s view that it is important that the owner also has a trustee’s responsibility. It's a fundamental belief that I have, that private ownership also brings with it a management responsibility that's important. The representative Ryan and I agree that a district fund of $1 billion makes sense. There are means that can be used wisely. As Ryan's representative puts it, it will help to provide a basis for growth and development in the districts. But what I want to challenge Ryan's representative is whether he's as willing to join in when the Right promotes proposals that are about improving the framework conditions and that are about having a tight fiscal policy that allows competitive industries in the districts to actually be able to compete in a tough market. Does the representative also want to be involved in putting as much emphasis on that part as on what the fund has to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1493	The representative Momyr asks whether SV is willing to help create a good framework for business. On that question, the answer is an unconditional yes. It is clear that business must have a good framework. So the question is, what kind of framework conditions are the best for business? There are probably different opinions in the right and the left, after what I have learned from previous treatments. But I would like to stress that it is not just the framework conditions directly aimed at the companies that are important to get businesses in District Norway to survive. There are a number of other factors — such as infrastructure, local economy, maintaining the store, etc. – which is also essential for enterprises to survive, because there is a link between all of them. But we are willing to discuss arrangements with all parties in Stortinget to enable Norwegian business to compete and have the opportunity to maintain jobs both in cities and in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1498	I understand the representative Ryan well when he negotiated with the government parties a regional fund and got promises of NOK 1 billion, since he has worked for such a regional fund. I have some major problems with the government parties, which have been ideological in relation to this with ownership. This is, of course, a selective instrument to be used in less-nutrient districts. That's what the government says, yes, and I'll put in $1 billion. I expect that it has been approved by the Prime Minister himself, given the amount. I also remember when we negotiated with the Government last year about the state budget, and there was a break between the government parties and the Progress Party. The breach came when we had inside – I think it was – NOK 675 million in a state budget. So this can be put into slightly larger dimensions. Yesterday we dealt with the agricultural settlement. Then the government was willing to add 12 billion kroner. These 12 billion DKK are also paid by non-competitive businesses in the districts, which are struggling with huge remote disadvantages – far from the markets, small domestic markets, etc. You take from these companies in the form of sky-high taxes and taxes, and then you have to distribute back a little. I do not recognize the Right in this policy. I think it's sad that a Structural Fund could not be explored, because it could be a general fund-raising solution, which applies to a certain type of enterprise, export-oriented, etc., and natural resources linked to them all over the country. I think it's odd that SV also said no to Argentum, because there are just venture investments Norway lacks to a large extent to further develop button shooting in Norwegian business. My question to Ryan's representative is, how did he intend the facility for this fund? What will he give priority to in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1513	When I arrived at Stortinget nine months ago, I had a goal in addition to controlling the country along with the rest of the 165 representatives. There was a promise for Norwegian district policy, as SV has promised its voters. When we then have the opportunity to make a promise for Norwegian district policy, that's what's important. The parties that are willing to form a majority with us so that we can make that promise, we want to have constructive and good cooperation with. In this case, the parties to the Government and the SV have a majority. When the offer is that we can spend NOK 1 billion on investing in the most underprivileged areas, we think it is a proposal that we are very pleased to have implemented. The representative Hedstrøm asks about how the detailed devices become on this. To that I have to say that during the summer we are going to work on this matter together with the government parties. It's been so short, and things have gone so fast, that we don't have all the details in place. But SV, together with the government parties, has been invited to design a greater level of detail on the proposal, so that we meet the target audiences that we want to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1520	I'd like to compliment the representative Ryan on the history and, to the extent possible, put it behind me. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, we may be somewhat more optimistic about the future – a public limited company in Statkraft or not. We think we can live well with that arrangement. When it comes to what SV has done in this context, I will allow myself so late in the evening and far in the session to praise them for their practical approach in the work in this field. So to the extent that I have a challenge to SV to be a little rusty back when it comes to proposal No. 8, which is about to send this message back to the Government. For a party that has achieved so much in this matter, there should be a bad practice, and I would therefore ask the SV to consider rejecting that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1529	When SV wants to send this message back, it is because we fundamentally disagree with the strong sales that the Government adds. We totally disagree with the Government of the basic policy in which the state is to dispose of significant ownership in Norway. That is why SV wants to send the message back. That is why I am unfortunately unable to respond to that request.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1534	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1537	First, I would like to commend the case spokesperson for his good work. I also want to give the honor to the committee that chose to agree that the message was processed in the spring session, which I believe has too many companies to say. And finally, I will give tribute to the department that has provided a thorough analysis of the future of the state’s ownership in Norway under the title ‘A smaller and better state ownership’. The cancellation message and the setting for this theme show that the difference between the parties is not as big as we are dealing with today, at least not when it comes to the issue of how the state should own and the state ownership of most of the companies we have discussed. For the first time, there is a majority in the Storting for the Government's recommendation when it comes to how the government should act as a professional and good owner. I want to show you here the ten properties for good ownership that have been reviewed in the message, and that only SV have indicated that they are different in one point. Furthermore, the entire Committee wishes to stress that it is important to distinguish organisationally between the State administrative tasks and those of the State as owners of individual companies. It is important that we are some about this, as the state will be an important owner of the company for a long time to come. In the Christian People's Party we also believe that increasing the focus on profitable operations in state-owned companies is an advantage in securing the jobs of the company – not to say a head office. The job losses will always be the safest. When it comes to the country's foundation for owning a company, the Committee is also relatively grouped. We are certain that companies that take purely sectoral policy into account, such as the Vinmonopolet, can still be placed under a departmental department, and there is a broad consensus to have political control over how important natural resources are used. We are also some about the goal of Norwegian anchoring in key sectors such as agriculture, petroleum, power and finance. From the Government Party's side, we propose to consider the strength of the private ownership environment when assessing the reduction of government ownership. We want to stimulate the development of private ownership, and at this point there is a distinction between the government party and the opposition. We don't agree with the argument that the only way to ensure that an enterprise is Norwegian is that it will be state-owned for all future. In the Christian People's Party, we have noticed that with only three exceptions, there are several figures in the Grand Duchy for the assessments made by the Government in connection with the state ownership of the 40 individual companies mentioned in the message. The Workers' Party's proposal to limit the powers of Telenor to go all the way down to 34 pst. the ownership only in the case of mergers and acquisitions is, as I see it, a redundant proposal. It has never been a matter of our government selling Telenor axes for billions of cash. There were industrial solutions for Telenor that were in focus when the government of Stoltenberg, at Minister of Industry Grete Knudsen, asked for a general mandate to go down to 34 p.m., and industrial solutions are still what the mandate should be used for. Proposal 3 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party to restrict the mandate is therefore a completely unnecessary mark. But if point 1 of proposal 3 were to have multiples at voting tonight, I would encourage the representatives of the Christian People's Party to vote for point 2 of the proposal, to open up to go down to 34 pst. by merger or buying-in. Only when there are three companies, the Kongsberg Group, Nammo and Norsk Hydro, have the majority in Stortinget some other assessments of the state ownership. But the differences are not large when it comes to the percentage, and both the government party and the opposition are some of them that, since there are no powers for these companies today, any reduction in the state ownership will have to be presented in a write-down proposition. Now, as I read the comments from the opposition, one of the things you're looking at is whether there's a proposition with a good industrial solution for one or more of these companies, even if this is a watering down of the state-owned part. The majority thus hardly opposes the fact that the state also eliminates such possible solutions. Also for Statkraft, an opportunity is being discussed to find industrial solutions, over time possibly by merging with other actors in the Nordic region. Nothing in the committee comments prevents the Government from considering such solutions further, which of course will have to be submitted to the Storting in its own proposal. When it comes to the Government's view of state ownership in State power, there is no doubt: Sal of the axis of cash is not applicable. So the corporate form is not the determining factor now. But we're open to long-term strategic and industrial solutions, where Statkraft is part of a larger unit. I understand that most of the parties can join in and discuss this, whether we are faced with a concrete situation. I believe that in that case we will get a whole solution in Stortinget. As many people have found in the newspapers, the government party and SV have concluded an agreement in connection with the matter being dealt with in Stortinget. We are among others. some that we should not go into the idea of a gigantic structural fund, or a distribution of it, which was intended to contribute cheap government capital to selected enterprises. Instead, we have some of the following: The Government shall submit proposals for a regional fund of approximately DKK 1 billion by 1 February next year. The Fund shall focus on district-based business and industrially weak areas. It is to be specified whether it is to be established as a regional fund linked to each part of the country.The government is to make proposals on how to strengthen SND’s instrument to improve the access to capital to Norwegian business.The Swedish Social Security Fund is to be allowed to invest non-listed axles. These are measures that will improve access to capital for the private sector in Norway, and we are pleased to see that there will be more for this. This will also be particularly positive measures targeting the districts. Private enterprises, small, medium and large, are the backbone of Norwegian value creation. These companies need capital, and they benefit from owners who make demands for profitable operations. It is important for Norway that we have competent owners who can handle this. Here we are at a very important part of the foundation for doing something about the corporate tax level. We have taken away double taxation on the exchange of shares, and in the Sem Declaration, the Government Party has promised that the property tax should gradually decline. This is not the purpose of giving a demonstration to the rich, but of making it more attractive to do business in Norway, and for the Nordics to own in Norway. This also has an impact on undernourished districts. The tests I know show that about 70 pst. of what is being taken as a share exchange is being reinvested in business, so this change I would like to stand for. In the light of what has been said and what has emerged in the debate otherwise, I would urge the representatives of the Christian People's Party to vote for the No. 1 and 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, and for III in the position. All of these suggestions have multiples here in the hall. I would also urge the Christian People's Party to vote against II and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1585	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1588	The representative Ivar Kristiansen accused the Advance Party of changing clothes. It's the jam in this room that's done the same! When I heard the Christian People's Party representative now, I got a feeling that they either inherited or borrowed the clothes to the Right. I want to remind the representative of the Christian People's Party of some matters that were not long ago dealt with in Stortinget. In the debate on the Municipal Bank on 1 June 1999, the Labour Party's Day Terje Andersen said: ‘The working party is united with the centre parties behind the majority position and has underlined the proposition expressed by the majority, namely that in addition to KLP being given the opportunity to purchase 20 pst. of the shares, it is an objective that municipalities acquire the shares as the State can sell them out. We stress the need for the state and municipal sectors to own the company together, among other things. by clarifying that the right to acquire shares shall also apply after the change of ownership.’;» In the case of Nammo AS, the Right of Innst proposed. S. No 154 for 1999-2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to reduce its ownership of Nammo AS to 34 p.m., following the acquisition of Raufoss ASA’s shares.’ That was against the Christian People's Party. Now they are voting in favour of the proposal to sell in both companies – plus many others. I wondered when I heard Olaf Gedrem's post, where he said that there were only three companies we disagreed about. I can mention some where there is disagreement between the left-hand side and the government parties: SND Invest, Telenor, Stor-Oslo Local Traffic, Raufoss, Kommunalbanken, Kongsberggruppe, Hydro, Nammo and Extra.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1607	The Christian People's Party has a long tradition of cooperating with other parties and reaching compromises on important issues. So maybe we've also got a pretty positive reputation that we're constructive. I think we've had the same approach to the case complex that's up here tonight. And for the party's part, I must say that we believe that we can support the proposals that are being made in this big message. It is right, as the representative Fossli says, that there are certain changes to what we have previously agreed on. There are different arguments for this, but we have had a serious review of state-owned companies and a relatively thorough analysis, and assessment, of the individual company and why, if any, we should bet on a State involvement. Based on this process, the Christian People's Party has found it possible to reach the conclusions of the representative Fossli. At the same time, we are now in a position where Norway is so rich that we can participate and actively facilitate that private ownership can have a greater impact on Norwegian business and take over the place that the state has had. In fact, I believe that we are approaching a situation where it is safe to take some new steps and challenge the own environment and the Norwegian people in general, with all their wealth, to be in funds and in other ways to be part of and build the industry for the future in a better way and more fulfilling than the state can in many companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1616	The representative Güdrem referred to the agreement made by the government parties with the Socialist Left in relation to fund structures aimed at underprivileged enterprises and districts. For me, this seems a little special. You have to figure out the plan of several funds, but you put the money in first. And it's going to be a little bit after the input method, like I see it, when you add a billion first, without knowing how this construction eventually becomes. The government, and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, have previously announced an action report that has highlighted the need to see the total means on a country-wide basis. Then you lift the lightning velocity out a bit -- and you put in a billion. Does not the representative Gedrem not feel that this is a bit problematic in relation to how much to contribute to other instruments, and in relation to a general idea of what tools Norway should have to have to achieve a good benefit-cost effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1625	The Christian People's Party is a district-friendly party, so on behalf of the party I have to say that we are completely satisfied with this agreement, and we believe that he will agree to give a new deal in the district bet. I also believe that the representative Hedstrøm is aware that there are some representatives of the party in this room who have used a lot of the last six months to stress that the Christian People's Party has not lived up to its previous tradition in this field. We don't think it's the right way to introduce ourselves, but we feel this is a good proof of the opposite, that the Christian People's Party has a specific interest in strengthening the districts in their important struggle to be strengthened and survive in the future. It's important to the whole country. Another reason why we look at this proposal, which we have now received in a number of notes with SV, is that we were partly in doubt about the structural fund from which we saw the outlines, which a large minority are now asking for. To get a fund paid out, it's very easy to ask for capital restocking. When we see that it has come in to write to the committee where a size of between 50 and 100 billion dollars, it's clear that we're getting a little bit insecure. We feel that it is not right to make such a large amount of cheap capital available to a private investor environment that would be able to benefit greatly from such a fund. We feel that this is a much more targeted and necessary effort to strengthen an exposed business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1635	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1638	My speaking time is so short that I am not going to draw up the whole backstop that some other speakers have done in terms of both the globalisation that is taking place in relation to the international economy and the market changes that Norwegian industry is facing. It's done earlier this evening, and it's said a lot wise about it. Let me just say that, through the position we are discussing today, we have finally got the debate on state ownership down to a reasonable and realistic level. All the honors of the case rapporteur for having contributed to it! We have had the debate on state ownership down from a plan whereby ideologicalised short-thinked postulates that the state should possess the least possible were dominated, and on what is important, namely a realistic review of the individual companies in the state's ownership portfolio, the state's ownership role and the need for a national anchoring in relation to both ownership, knowledge, technology and development. We have also had a strong need to discuss the issue of building private capital in Norway and the position and opportunities of active private owners in the future. As you can see, the setting is constantly a defeat for Right thinking about state ownership – and well it is! The state's egg portfolio is varied. It is a portfolio of owners consisting of enterprises in very different industries. It varies from the key strategic areas, not least from important natural resources, to businesses that have more purely social tasks, and monopolies, mostly in infrastructure. The fact that the state’s ownership portfolio is as varied as it is suggests that a person discusses a different ownership management and a different ownership strategy compared to the different types of enterprise. It is difficult to choose a simple role for the country to deal with so many different enterprises and businesses in the overall portfolio. For this reason, the majority of the Committee under the chapter on the discussion of ownership has also concluded that uniting ownership in one department is unwise and that there is a need for the Government to return to the Stortinget with a broad review, both for better organisation and management of ownership. There is a clear message from a majority that the job in this context has not been done well enough. This needs to be looked at more closely. With regard to the country's ownership role, I would like to stress that the clearest message from the hearings held by the Committee has been that, in most cases, the State has been a long-term and stable owner, who in many cases has also contributed positively to getting businesses through the necessary transformations and transformations. Most have also highlighted the need for the State to exercise its ownership professionally and predictablely in the years ahead. A few of them have developed the dividend policy in that context, for which I must say I have a great deal of understanding. It does not turn out to be a professional state owner with such a random and sometimes greedy dividend policy as the state sometimes pursues. Enterprises have also highlighted, almost independently of which sector, the need for national anchoring. It's a recognition that goes across the different businesses. The need for a national anchoring is there, not only in the case of the holding physically, but for the whole environment built around many of its enterprises, which operate in some of the main industrial environments Norway has created in oil and gas, other offshore technologies, IT and the power sector elsewhere. The Committee has examined the different companies, and we have our comments on the different companies. My lack of speaking time does not allow me to go through it, but it has been an interesting opportunity for us to go through the peculiarities of the different companies. I also want to say a few words about the lack of private capital and the channelling of private capital, especially in the Norwegian community. The majority of the Committee has chosen to look at various possibilities for strengthening private capital. Some of us have not concluded in this round that it must be, but we have said that we are positive to gain more knowledge and a better analysis of the possibilities available for private capital, whether it be for seed funds, structural funds, Argentum, SND or regional funds. The centre party has also proposed, as we have done in the past, to remove the wealth tax on economic assets. We think that is an important proposal, precisely to strengthen the active private owners. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1671	The president asked whether the representative should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1674	There is as much left as I should have said, but I will finally bring up proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. I would also like to inform you that the Central Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Otherwise, I would recommend the members of the Central Party to vote in favour of the vote - all Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1683	The representative Arnstad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1686	The main objective of the left is that Norway should be an attractive country to run business and that Norwegian enterprises should have good owners who provide economic resources, networks, market access and skills. Left thinks this is far more central than the owner's nationality. Furthermore, it is important, especially for small enterprises, that tax rules and other decisions enable the owner to be active in his own enterprise. Public ownership in Norwegian business is extensive, organised in a variety of ways and has very different purposes. The state as a large and dominant owner is itself a democratic problem. In most cases, however, the state appears to be a passive investor in large, well-established enterprises. At the same time, there is a great need for risk capital for the new enterprises to grow and generate value in the future. Left wants the state to clean up its corporate ownership and define what it wants with ownership in each individual case. The objective of direct public ownership must be to take care of economic activities and tasks that the market cannot otherwise solve, such as: specific infrastructure tasks or to manage important common values. It is not an objective for state enterprises to offer services – and products – which can be done as well or better by individuals on pure market terms, on the one hand as monopolies and, on the other hand, in competition with private individuals. In most cases, the Community's interests will likely be safeguarded equally or better by the use of laws, framework conditions and control images. For many state companies it will be positive to get private owners and to get strategic partners. Sub-privatisation and stock exchange listing can therefore be an active tool. What I've said so far is from the left's program. There is a good match between this and the big message that is being handled today. The comments of our government partners are essentially based on the same principle. The problems mentioned about the different roles of the state are in the process of finding a solution – if they haven't already done so. The left has never had the fear of state, but is concerned with the balance of power and the prudent management of resources. The reason for government ownership is not the same as before. At the same time, there is no mention of major urgency of state axes. The government does not ask for powers in this round, but will evaluate each individual company separately, even when it applies to the date of any sale. The left is in agreement with a comprehensive committee which points out that the state is still playing an active role in industrial policy, not least through research and development, and through fiscal policy. However, a major problem in Norwegian nutrition development is the need for a stronger private and active ownership. Thus, one must also pursue a policy that makes it profitable to invest in business. Tax policy must encourage people to invest most in the development of jobs, rather than investing in banks and property. Thus, it is so sad when such actions are met with dogmatic and symbolic policies from socialists – from the Socialist Left Party to the Central Party. The mantra for tax relief to the richest is repeated and repeated, in order to actually undermine important incentives for a strong, Norwegian, private ownership. The Labour Party had many good arguments against double taxation of dividends when they were put in government. Now this is the sacrifice on symbolism's altar. The rich always manage to wink, and it is not that such tax symbols generate real income for the community. Many of the arguments about taxes on wealth follow the same pattern. The left is very pleased with the compromise between the Government Party and the Socialist Left when it comes to fund building. The state-capitalistic fund-building that the Workers' Party and the Progress Party have strangely merged is an error trail. This is about subsidizing the richest. Actually, a completely universal capitalist gives a suction pipe to the oil well that they don't catch up with. So Norwegian capital, which refuses to take too much risk, will have the state with it. Then it might not be that dangerous if an investor makes a mistake. Private capital flows around the world freely. It's invested where the projects are attractive, and where one can make money. Innovation is not dependent on the state’s capital, and the state’s task in this phase of capitalism must primarily be to regulate, control and non-discriminatory capitalists – not subsidising and favoring a few large investors. In that case, it is far more sensible to strengthen measures that can provide capital where there is a lack of capital and where there may be a lack of will and insight to dare to invest, simply in economically weak or unilaterally based districts. The left can join any comment where the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1721	It is obvious that May Britt Vihovde is a lucky person. She simply has complete knowledge of how such a fund as we have discussed here today would work, and all the negative aspects of such a fund. If that were the case, wouldn't it be an advantage to get an explanation when it comes to this question and get it documented, so that we don't have the total knowledge in this area, could also get a better basis for what we're talking about? I have to admit that I have very little understanding that the government party over the table could ‘cash out’ NOK 1 billion to prevent others from getting the knowledge that May Britt We had opened up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1726	So the Labour Party and the Progress Party want to fund money, where the big investors who need capital can also have the state with them as their owners. We don't want Left, but instead we want to stimulate the private business to be involved in taking the risk by investing. However, in economically weak areas of District Norway, it is important that the state participates and secures the capital where perhaps the private investors will not – or do not dare – participate and invest. There are a lot of entrepreneurs around – many people who have an idea, and who want to evaluate the ideas with someone and be involved and invest. There are several who have been involved in this and have asked questions to the government party and to the Socialist Left about how this fund should be set up. I expect the Government Party and the Socialist Left Party to be involved, go through and justify such a fund. But I have faith that this will be a fund that the small entrepreneurs out in District Norway want to be involved and further developed in their small communities, but that they will not get the big investors with them. Those are the ones we need to organise this fund for. But how it should be designed in detail is something we want to discuss further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1733	I understand that representatives of a small party that the Left does not have the capacity to intervene in all questions and matters that are being dealt with in this room. I still think that when one comes up with blatant claims about the other party's policy, there should be a minimum of content in that criticism. It's not in the message we're processing today, that individual parties go in to create a Structural Fund. It is that individual parties want to know more about how such a fund could work, for example. to create opportunities for more capital for Norwegian business. The government party has chosen to pay out $1 billion without any treatment in committee or elsewhere, to prevent other parties from gaining that knowledge. I would like to have a reason why this happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1743	I do not feel the need to give the representative Akssen a basis for how one has negotiated until this excellent proposal, which is supported by the Socialist Left Party and the Government Party. But we can invite the Labour Party to join and support it, if the Labour Party agrees that this can be a good measure. But at least we want to ensnare the state's investment into funds so that they are really used where they are needed, and rather stimulate private business to participate in larger investments where there is no need for the state to set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1750	Because the Left is part of the government coalition, I have to be allowed to challenge the Left for a little bit of precision in relation to what they're actually in favour of. Firstly, when the representative Vihovde challenges the Workers' Party to support the proposal on regional funds, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are behind the proposal – the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are behind everything about regional funds in the vote. It'll be a broad majority for today. I see no contradiction between addressing the need for regional funds and addressing the need for a structural fund. What is in the setting is not the creation of a Structural Fund. It says that the need for and organisation of such a Structural Fund should be addressed. I would like to support the entrepreneurs in the districts through regional funds, but I would also like to have the opportunity to support the larger locomotives in the Norwegian industry. And I'm asking myself, could a structural fund, for example. had there been an opportunity to prevent Dyno from being sold out of Norway and that Hydro Seafood was sold out of Norway? There is also an opportunity that could lie in such a structural fund, but now we are deprived of the opportunity to explore the need for such a possible fund. I would also like to ask again for the same thing as the representative Aksenssen asked for, namely the reason – more precisely – for why we are being deprived of this possible knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1761	Well, here's a pretty fundamental difference between the government party and maybe the Central Party and the Workers' Party. In fact, the Left believes that the large industrial enterprises can best stimulate by providing good tax conditions and good framework conditions in general. We do not see the need for this large structural fund. Rather, we would like to channel the state's funds through funds that are more directly directed towards those who do not have the same access to capital as part of these big businesses and Norwegian businesses in general. We would rather stimulate good tax conditions. Among other things, the government has now reduced a selection to assess a large tax reform, which may give flat taxes and equal taxes on capital and labour income, which will make the split model redundant. In any event, it will allow Norwegian businesses to better represent themselves, and may be involved in investing and participating in the investments needed for the non-state venture capital business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1766	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1769	The coastal party is generally concerned about strengthening private local ownership in Norway, but we do not see the sale of state enterprises as current policies at this time. Developments in recent years show that listing of Norwegian companies largely results in the withdrawal of ownership. The Norwegian financial environment is too small to cope with foreign multinational purchases. We have noted a comment from the majority of the Economic and Social Committee, where it states that: «at this stage no power should be given to sell state holdings. The majority believe that before any sale is considered, the Government must have a plan to strengthen private ownership, on the one hand through framework conditions, and on the other through cooperation solutions between the State and the private sector on the other». The majority then refer to the proposals for different funds. This is in agreement with the Coastal Party. Time does not allow a review of all the companies proposed to be sold in full or in part, but some companies are more important than others. The coastal party has opposed the partial privatisation of Statoil. We've previously described it as a theft of the people's property. We still believe this. We believe that any partial privatization of State power will be an even more serious theft, since the value of State power to the extent that it is not a result of the right of repatriation of industrial companies has come from people's payments through electricity billing. The Coastal Party will not convert State power into a limited liability company, but will retain this company as a state management company. This is how we will ensure that our renewable value base is not sold out of the country. Conversion into a limited liability company is an experienced first step on the road towards partial privatisation. This is particularly important in a situation where ESA requires Norway to abolish the right of withdrawal, thus facilitating long-term foreign investment in the Norwegian power industry. This is unacceptable in the view of the Coastal Party. We also want to explain why we went against the sale of Cermaq ASA. When Statkorn got 1.2 billion in capital, it was just to ensure Norwegian ownership of the aquaculture industry, which has far too much foreign ownership today. Hydro’s sales of Hydro Seafood to Dutch Nutreco, which currently owns and controls a significant proportion of this industry in Norway, have been refreshed. That is why we supported a state purchase in Hydro to make sure that we also have such important companies in Norway and Norwegian hands in the future. The Coastal Party considers that the aquaculture industry should be dominated as much as possible by Norwegian private operators with local anchoring, but, to the extent that this is not possible, Norwegian state ownership is a better solution than foreign sales. We must not sit in such a situation that we ourselves do not have the ownership of our main industries. The coastal party is very concerned about the development that Norwegian fisheries, both saltwater fishing and farming, are sold out of the country through the stock exchange. Government ownership has a different reason today than it had before, when the state kept living in unprofitable businesses to secure jobs. Today, the reason for strong state ownership is the need to protect profitable businesses and natural resources from foreign purchases. This means, of course, that the country that owns should address business profitability requirements while taking into account employment. Foreign experience with global unlimited capitalism shows a trend in which fewer and fewer owners are more and more, and where owners who look at their personal dividends unilaterally are pushing forward an international competitive situation that is not in the best interests of either individual nation or worker. Last year, the Stortinget opened up for foreign investors to invest in Norwegian pharmacies. This resulted in German interests already having bought up nearly 90 pst. by the Norwegian pharmacy. As you see and experience, the consequences of such things are fatal. This amendment was made without limiting the proportion of this industry that could be purchased by non-resident owners, which even the EU has limited. Norway has a unique opportunity to maintain a business that benefits and provides contract rights for most people. That's an opportunity we're not going to sell out at a time when the state cash flows out of money. The coastal party will support the position of the majority, and we will support the Roma proposals in the vote. Then we will finally praise the Progress Party for the important role they have played in this matter to stop any sales of state enterprises. There is respect for such a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1801	: The reason I asked for a line was that the representative from the Coastal Party used it in connection with a certain private feature of state companies. It uses expression as 'theft'. I feel that there is a misunderstanding and a bad practice that from Storting's pulpit, such barrages are used, which are not rooted in reality. The fact that there are multiple political decisions here that allow private people to buy up property in former state companies is far, far from theft. I distance myself from a user of such expressions when private people get into companies that used to be state-owned, and that we get more private people who will feel management responsibility and a responsibility to run the business profitably. I would also like to point out, as the Coastal Party representative did not seem to care, that we are living in a globalised value. We have received figures earlier in the debate that show that Norwegian interests are acquiring more strongly in foreign companies than is the case in the case of foreign investors in Norway. Would there be an unwanted development for Norwegian interests? I don't think so. I think such an internationalisation of Norwegian business would be very positive for Norway and a condition for future growth. That's why I don't want to add a negative stamp to such a development. I would rather like to welcome Norway as an important international player in the private sector to develop our own business, but also in full solidarity with other countries. If there are developing countries or other countries, Norway should be an important player as one of the world's rich nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1808	When it comes to theft, I want to justify that these are values built up by the inhabitants. When you drop into foreign capital that gets access to these resources – the eternal resources that we have in hydropower – and local energy plants are sold out of the country, I will characterize it as a theft of values that the people have built up. It's possible it's strongly expressed, but in the long run, I think we'll see that it will be perceived as a theft for those who depend on these bets around the districts. When it comes to living in a globalized world, I think it's important that we stop a little bit and see where development is going. We spend considerable amounts abroad and invest in foreign industry and shares, both through the Oil Fund and through other companies. It would have been much more sensible to use these resources domestically to increase value creation in the country. This is a matter of these renewable resources, fisheries, etc. These are eternal resources that are renewable, which we cannot reverse with these actions here. That's why we're at the point where we're at the point where we're going to keep as much of the value creation in the country as possible for our future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1817	No more people have asked for a line, and we go back to the regular list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1820	The debate seems to me to have been marked by 'the eyes that see'. The government parties believe they have won all the battles, and I sometimes wonder how to read the notes. I think the best description of the outcome of the reading of this message is the title put on the message by the representative, Mr Ryan, after the vote will be over today. There has been the greatest difference in the description with regard to the so-called Structural Fund, and there has been a gulf between the amounts and other claims about the functioning and appearance of such a Structural Fund. And that's why I want to refer to the proposal that the majority is making regarding this fund: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the need for and organisation of a significant State Structural Fund which, under commercial conditions, can contribute when Norwegian companies need to increase their capital strength, cf. The Committee's comments at the Innst. S. No 264 [[2001-2002]] So there's one such investigation that the government parties and SV are so very anxious that we're going to know the result of. The representative, Olav Aksensen, has explained the views of the Workers' Party in this matter as well as mentioned some of the companies in which we disagree with the Government. I want to focus a little bit on the Municipal Bank, where the state has 80 pst. of the shares. The tasks of the municipal bank, in short, are to provide loans to municipalities, county councils, intermunicipal companies and other companies carrying out municipal tasks. The Bank performs its tasks in an excellent manner, and has the highest “rating” for international borrowings, precisely because it owns the public sector. This means that the bank obtains very good loan conditions on the international loan market, which in turn can be transferred to Norwegian municipalities. In fact, the local government bank has the same «rating» as the Norwegian State, and such «rating» cannot be sold. If the government sells itself down, this could have a direct impact on the bank's loan terms and thus on the price of municipal loans. Once again, this could affect the small and medium-sized municipalities, which depend on the Municipal Bank. It is also the case that the Municipal Bank does not cost the public anything. Rather, the State has received good returns on its shares in the Kommunalbanken. One of the arguments of the Government to reduce state ownership in the companies we are dealing with today is that state ownership to the extent that we have in Norway is a strange phenomenon. It's not like that with the Municipal Bank. In fact, there are publicly owned municipal banks in all Nordic countries, in most countries in western Europe and in a large number of states in the United States and Canada. Arguing governments in these countries have actually found it profitable to transfer the Community's creditworthiness to municipal borrowers. The Council of State Gabrielsen is known for being a politician who has a special relationship with the Right ideology, and this often permeates his political statements and actions. He went out high on the track when he started working on this message, but has probably landed relatively hard afterwards. It is good enough that a right-wing politician has Right-wing ideology, but sometimes one has the impression that ideology overshadows the rational and reasonable – and so also seems to have happened in relation to the Municipal Bank and some of the other companies that it is about today. We are surprised, therefore, that he has had this success in the government, especially with the blessing of the Christian People’s Party. The municipal bank is operated effectively. By the end of 2001, there were only 29 employees. Operating costs in relation to administrative capital are well below the level of major banks, and I hardly think that some private banks in Norway have such a good cost figure. Why in the world should the state sell out of such a bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1848	In order to put an end to the anxiety just expressed by the representative Fossli regarding the Municipal Bank, and in order for that anxiety not to break and remain seated beyond the night, I will quote the last four lines that have been said about the Municipal Bank in the message: ‘In 2000, the State sold 20 pst. of the shares of KLP, with a measure of further municipal ownership. The Government will consider different ways of following up on this.» So in 2000, they did. Then it was different from this government that set. – It should not frighten either the representative Fossli, the Municipal Bank or potential depositors of the Municipal Bank. But at least it seems to be of great interest and broad agreement that there were good reasons to review the country's ownership policy. In the Sem Declaration, the government parties reaffirmed the need for such a review. In an international market, where active and competent ownership is increasingly required to enable companies to develop their competitiveness, we must always be willing to ask critical questions about the best and proper management of the large values owned by the State. I am pleased to note that there is broad agreement on key elements of both the basis and the content of a Norwegian state ownership policy. In debates like the one we have here this evening, it will often be that different views on some issues overshadow what we are very much in agreement about. It's part of politics. We all agree that ownership is of importance for the creation of value. It is important that, through the linking of capital and competences, we can facilitate economic development. In Norway, where a large part of the building of wealth is carried out by the State, it is particularly important to ask questions about whether and, where appropriate, how the State can meet the demands of a modern and competitive ownership. There is a broad consensus that this means that we need to have the most professional management of state ownership. It is not unexpected that there will be different views on how we should set ourselves up to do this. In the Communication, the Government has underlined the importance of stimulating increased ownership participation by private individuals. The vast majority of parties seem to support such a view, although there is a different view of the instruments to be used. Through the work already in progress, for example: on taxes in the Skauge Committee, on pension conditions in the Commission led by Sigbjørn Johnsen, through the established seed schemes, the industrial company Argentum and any new fund schemes that will be assessed on the basis of the Storting treatment here today, we already have many elements in place for such further work. I am pleased to see that the Storing is in essence in keeping with the Government's view on which principles should be used for the exercise of good ownership. This is very important. It is by consistently implementing these principles in the operational ownership exercise that the State that owns can gain confidence among market players. Trust in the country that owns is important for the development of the companies concerned and it is important for the value of the country's holdings. Following the principles of good ownership that are now widely agreed will be central to the further professionalisation of government administration. In the Storing Notice, 40 companies are mentioned. I have said on many occasions – also in the message, and I repeat it here – that no matter what political camp we come from and no matter what role we have had over the years, we must have such an open mind that we regularly ask the fundamental and simple questions: What was the reason why the state eventually became the owner of this company? Is the justification still valid? If the answer is no, we have to ask questions about what we're doing with it. There is neither much policy nor criticism of previous decisions in such a review. The world around us is changing, and the solutions that were once considered to be the best are not necessarily that today. Let me also underline a very important relationship. In this Communication, the Government has not made any concrete proposals for selling in any company. We have conducted a non-prejudiced assessment of the state ownership of these companies, and explained to the Storting how the Government finds it natural to conclude. That's what we've invited Stortinget to discuss. I have noted that of the forty companies that have been reviewed in the ownership announcement, it is actually only for three-four companies that a majority in the Stortinget – I stress a majority in the Storinget – have clearly different opinions and conclusions from what the Government has. I cannot interpret it differently than that the majority of the Storting essentially also adheres to the assessments made by the Government of the state of ownership of individual companies. And Hedstrøm's suggestion about these companies I interpret as an invitation to come back to Stortinget in concrete contexts. It would lead too far to go into all the individual companies in this debate, but I still want to comment on two companies – Telenor and Statkraft. In this Chamber on 15 June last year, the Stortinget addressed the Workers' Party Government's proposal to reduce the State's ownership of Telenor ASA down to 34 pst. In the debate, he said, among other things: Øystein Hedstrom: ‘The Party agrees that the State is authorised to reduce its shareholding in Telenor. We think it makes sense for the company to decide for itself the progress of this, based on business considerations. By giving authority to sell and issue down to 34 p.m., there will be greater flexibility and more rapid decision-making on solutions that are at the best of the company and that safeguard the values of the country and hence its population.» It's like I should have said it myself. And it's probably not exactly what Hedstrøm had in mind, that the change of policy was due to a change in the programme, because the programme processing in the Progress Party did not take place after June 15th last year in terms of the expansion period we are now in. As I said, I support Hedstrøm's assessments one year and three days ago, and I cannot see that there should be any reason why that view would no longer be valid. The majority’s comments on limiting the State’s access to selling Telenor shares to 51 p.m. This means a 180-degree turnaround, both for the Workers' Party and for the Advance Party – that is, in one year! Here we see the long-termity in the high-seat. This kind of behaviour also creates unfortunate signal effects for the company. However, I am pleased that a majority opens up strategic agreements in which the state's ownership can be reduced to 34 p.m., and that the original proposal of the rapporteur, who was widely advertised, did not receive a majority. I guess Telenor did a good job in the Workers' Party. In the case of State Power, the Committee points out that any transformation into a limited liability company should be discussed in the context of several different situations. I fully agree with this, and the further procedure has already been set up with this in mind. Own cases will be raised concerning the State Enterprise Act and the case-back scheme, respectively. This will form the basis of a separate State Power case. In such a proposal, it will include, inter alia: concrete proposals on how to deal with current industrial contracts and how the capital structure of a limited liability company should be, i.e. as the Stortinget now also asks. I find that for some companies, a majority in the Stortinget has not rejected a reduction in the State's ownership. However, the majority have argued that in this case this should be in situations where the company participates in mergers or similar, where shares are used as payment and the State's ownership is reduced. At the discretion of the majority, such cases must be submitted to the Storting as their own cases. I must, with all due respect, demand a better reason for these conclusions than that given in the position and so far in this debate. We all agree that it is important for the state to act as professionally as possible in its ownership, and that state ownership should be of benefit to the individual company. But that means that precisely when it comes to mergers, strategic cooperation, professionalism in the exercise of ownership means predictability, rapid decision-making and discretion on strategic and business matters. With a prior authorization from Stortinget, the Ministry may meet these requirements. When the matter has to be brought before the Storting, it becomes much more challenging, and there is a real danger that otherwise sensible industrial solutions will not come to a decision. This cannot be what we want. In this respect, I refer to the comments of the Workers' Party in the Committee's position on that mandate of 34 pst. as proposed by the then Labour Party Government concerning Telenor. In the Committee's setting up, and also in the debate today, many views have been expressed on the need to build up different types of fund schemes, on the one hand as the use of income from government sales, and on the other as a tool for increasing ownership base in Norway on the other. Now, first of all, we should have a sobering view of what revenues this might be about and the timing of any realization. The large sums of money that some people talk about assume that all the reduction in the state's holdings is on sale. It won't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1900	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1903	First of all, this is how the Council of State is wrong – and I believe it inside he knows – when he claims that the Labour Party has changed its view of Telenor. It's never been the idea that these axes should be sold on the stock exchange. It was about the company being able to conclude alliances so that the state part was watered out. And that's what we're stuck to. One must be able to state that the Government has suffered a total defeat in this matter. There will be no large hall of state axes, as the government suggested. There will be no multiple to convert Statkraft to AS. There is no plurality for the Government to organize its ownership. On the contrary, the Government is required to outsource the organisation and administration of state ownership and return to the Storting with this. The government is required to make proposals to establish new nationwide seed funds. And the government has let itself be pressured to "casha" out $1 billion to avoid the allocation of a structural fund. I expect the government to take these decisions into account, and that it will then pursue a policy and come back to the Storting with the proposals requested. Everyone knows that it is Right's primary desire to sell State Power. I expect that they will continue to work for that vision. It is then important to keep track of those values in the best possible way. As I see it, the Government will prevent State power from developing. They're not going to get any more money from the state, they're not going to get any more money from the private, and they're going to get a dividend of 80-90 pst. This means that the company will be reduced. Given that the Right will sell this company once in the future, is it not an unusually poor administration of the state's money?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1914	I'm not going to try the Olympic exercise that's going to describe defeat and victory in Stortinget – until I've heard that too much stupidly said by pastors. But what is absolutely right is that this time the Grand Prix Committee has chosen to make a very large number of proposals in dealing with a communication that is very specific about what has been mandated. What I was going to add up to was to the extent that the government of which the Axis itself was part, put forward in St.prp. No Last year, that is to say, in the context of the annual budgets, that we should take the specific powers and say yes or no to them. I still have that idea. In the case of paying NOK 1 billion in order to avoid having this fund investigated, it is that this fund must not be assumed to have come on its feet if it was not for the involvement of the Norwegian Investor Forum and relatively concrete thoughts on this, and they may well have explained it sufficiently in relation to the proposer. That was a point in addition. It was an instruction to the Government on billions of refuellings at Argentum. And there you can really say that you make the decisions in the loose air. The first investments are likely to be made until the autumn. It is not possible to invest the money they have already received within a long period of time. I have had a meeting with the company, and it is relatively clear. As far as Statkraft is concerned, our proposal and our suggestion are to come to Stortinget with a case of turning Statkraft into an AS in order that Statekraft should have exactly the same advantages and disadvantages as all the other actors in that industry. I am fully aware that there are special contracts Statkraft has that it has to be corrected in relation to. With regard to the dividend policy in whole state companies, I fully see that the dividend policy that has been pursued has not been ideal for building up equity either now or before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1925	The most eye-catching thing, I think, that has happened in dealing with this matter, is that the Government and the Swedish Government, at the speed of lightning, enter into a binding agreement, and this must have been lifted up at Prime Minister level, because it is 1 billion kroner that you promise a selective fund for economically weak areas. It cannot be in line with the Right as the dominant party in the government ideology to conduct that type of selective business. That's the one. I would also like to remind you of the negotiations of the Progress Party and the Government on the budget last year as stranded at 675 million. kr. I think that's that number, it was at least less than $1 billion. So this is going to be done by the velocity of the line and by the input method. You decide for $1 billion without knowing the device, and you don't know the context. Our Minister for Economic Affairs has long talked about an instrument message, that the whole of the instruments should be seen for the nation of Norway. So at the speed of lightning, you promise $1 billion to a very specific piece of the instrument. My question to the Council of State will be: Does he think this is a thoughtful and well-worked way of providing tools and getting the best cost-benefit solutions in this area for the nation of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1934	To characterize something as thoughtful and non-thoughtful, a person must have a reference frame and look at what to compare with. When one compares to some of the things Hedstrøm has put in the pen in the settings of the message, I do not think this seems to be a bad idea. The characterisation of the ‘speed of the line’ was rather flattering, but we started this review of all the instruments in November. We've had countless meetings about this with the business community, and we've got 60 recordings from different business organisations, so I have a fairly good overview of what's out there, and what's wanted. With regard to this agreement that the government parties have entered into with SV of NOK 1 billion for a fund to look in particular at measures in economically vulnerable areas in the districts, I do not characterise it as selective nutritional measures, as Hedstrøm said. This is capital, a fund, and it's probably about equity in corporations that have to be considered profitable. I definitely believe that in the districts of Norway there will be a need for equity also for profitable projects. Through the process we have had in terms of tool review, it is quite clear that we need some general instruments relating to equity that are nationwide, definitely. But it is also true that there are interesting projects in the districts where, with relatively small funds in equity, you can be with and stable things on your legs. So I consider the agreement that has been concluded to be very useful in realising profitable projects in the districts. It has been stressed in the negotiations, as far as I am aware, not least from the representative Ryan of SV, that we are talking about profitable projects in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1945	One of the main arguments of the Government for selling into state enterprises is that you view the state as an over-owner. Now the situation is that after this treatment, the country will still be a significant owner. Also, with the government's proposal, the state would have been a somewhat less significant owner, but still an owner. My question to the Council of State Gabrielsen is this: who is responsible, and who is responsible for the state becoming an excellent owner? Does the Council of State Gabrielsen feel the responsibility of having a task of making sure that the state becomes an excellent owner, so that you can actually be in the same class as the best private owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1954	Now I have no faith that, no matter what I did or didn't do, I would get the name that I had done excellent ownership. I know the Storting too well. «Passers» would probably be able to walk if it was very good what had been done. There is nowhere in the message that the government suggests that the state is a bad owner. That's not what this is about. The clues we have about the bottom line mean that the state will still be the definitely most dominant owner of Oslo Stock Exchange in the future, even if you go down to the posts we're talking about. An example of what I mean by good ownership of companies that are to be assessed: in Raufoss ASA, which fortunately a majority consisting of the Advance Party and the government parties will watch, the state owns 50 pst. I was there a week ago. I had meetings with the employees. I had a meeting with the board, and I had a meeting with the management. It is quite obvious that in the case of an enterprise in a market such as: producing car parts for the automotive industry, it is not certain that tomorrow's structure with regard to the companies that have access to the few car companies that remain is some lonely, small company at Raufoss. The question is whether we do a good job by holding that holding, or we do a good job by saying to the company: try to get an owner, a global car operator who will be able to give this company competence, market access, networks and everything in this regard. The state that owns, in my opinion, has nothing to add to that enterprise in addition to the fact that we have a holding that is worth, what I know, a number of tens of millions of dollars. In such a case, I believe that we exercise good ownership when we give the company a mandate to look at the possibility of getting someone to take over that ownership position as an alternative. Otherwise, I think we're making a general loss. Good ownership is not getting involved in the details, but in the big lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1965	What the Council of State is facing today is a great defeat in relation to the first big big big message he has advanced to the Stortinget. In this context, it's certainly wise that he seems to have dampened the slightly more ideological rhetoric in favor of a little more realistic rhetoric. I think that is wise in relation to the conclusions in the vote. I was a little surprised that he accused other parties of not thinking in the long term. The government cannot first invite the Stortinge to have an opinion about the different state companies and so feel that it is not long-term if they conclude differently than the Government, such as. in the case of Telenor, which was brought forward here today. I understand that the Council of State has intended to come back to Stortinget with a case about Statkraft. I would also like to ask: How and when does the Council of State intend to come back to Stortinget with a case of different models for the organisation of state ownership? A majority today say no to collecting it in one department. I also want to ask the Council of State when he comes back to Stortinget with a plan to strengthen private ownership, which will be a prerequisite for some parties that will certainly be more positive than the Center Party is in terms of sales, at all, looking at sales. As far as Statkraft is concerned, I would like to ask: is this the case, if I have understood the Council of State correctly, that one is willing to pay between 1 and 2 billion kroner in compensation for industrial power contracts just to get the letters SF to AS in Statkraft? That is what industrial power contracts actually cost. What are you going to do with the 1 TWh, that is, two Alta power plants, which are falling back from today until 2010? Who are they going to fall back to whose State power becomes AS? At least they can't fall back on Statkraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1978	As far as I can see, the majority of the committee may not have just chosen a way of attacking it where one can be accused of bringing something like lightning from the clear sky. As far as I am aware, this is to be done in accordance with proposal No. 11 on the desk will be reduced to a sample to determine this. I guess Arnstad has a lot of experience and knows how long these samples usually take. A so-called fast-working sample usually uses no more than one and a half to two years, but we do have samples that have lasted longer than that. I hope they'll be able to do this in a few years. And then the government has to do what it says in V, that's to bring it back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. But I don't think you should start looking at the shelves tomorrow after that investigation. As for Statkraft and all the details involved in converting it into an AS, if any, Arnstad knows just as well as I do that I can't in any way answer what's in it. It's in the nature of the matter. On the basis of what the representative Arnstad was in on, and who, to the extent that Akssen also asked, if the Council of State has intended to comply with the decisions that come from Stortinget, I will answer that if it is to joy or sorrow, I do not know, but I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e1989	The representative Arnstad took up the essentials, and I'm going to read it. It says on page 34 of the vote that the majority, the four parties, «provides that no power should be given to sell state holdings at this stage. The majority believe that before any sale is considered, the Government must have a plan to strengthen private ownership, partly through framework conditions»; and partly through these different fund structures mentioned. The party of progress is probably the party closest to the Government, which can be a guarantor of a certain sale or sale. Then I'm talking about non-strategic companies, because in the strategic companies we put a lower limit of 34 pst. It's definitely a minimum. But there are two pillars. We need to improve the framework conditions for private business. It's going on with the property tax, so here the government has the opportunity to make proposals during the current big period, so that we get a level playing field for non-residents and Nordics who want to invest in Norwegian business, so that the returns for Norwegians don't get any worse. Then we have the other pillar that goes on different fund constructions. The Council of State mentioned an ongoing sample and the funding of supplementary pensions, but he also mentioned Argentum, and there are several possibilities. What business summits say is that fund structures with professional boards and constitutions independent of state power can be treated equally to private institutional investors. You don't think of this as the state. If the Government can meet us at these points and present a plan that takes care of these two pillars, so that Norwegian interests can also compete for Norwegian businesses, so that the returns to taxpayers are improved and we get better and greater Norwegian ownership, it is in line with what the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2008	It is positive what Hedstrom says, both in terms of the invitation to discuss possible sales and also individual companies, and that you should come back to it. It states that ‘it is considered that no authorization should be given at this stage for the sale of State holdings’. The next page is a proposal for such a power of attorney. So I'm a little bit in doubt about exactly what that means, but it'll probably be an opportunity to get it done in a three-minute post what that exactly means that it shouldn't be given authority. The government has not requested any powers in this message. Of course, in the light of what is in the position, we will consider whether to promote such a case in the context of the State budget. As for the very anxiety, as I would call it, that in Norwegian companies there should be a certain percentage of foreign ownership, I have to say that I feel that fear is unfounded. I have been a State Council for six–seven–eight months, and every time I have visited another country, wherever it may be, there has always been an interest in attracting foreign capital and competence, and for Norwegian companies to invest in other countries. So it's going to be p.t. are as large Norwegian investments abroad as there are foreign investments in Norway. I think it is absolutely crucial for the future of Norwegian business that we maintain transparency and maintain balance, so that we do not become one-sided in any direction. At my discretion, no one imagines that the Government would want foreign ownership to be fully acquired, even if it is not entirely correct that Norwegian business leaders agree with Hedstrøm on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2015	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2020	The Labour Party and the Advance Party are working to establish a Structural Fund of between 50 and 100 billion kroner. They say here in the hall today that they want to investigate that matter. I guess that's not how you want to figure out just to figure it out. You do want to investigate because you want to do something about the matter, use the 50-100 billion kroner to shoot into the Norwegian business community. This is the purpose of both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. So whatever you say, that's the purpose. It is not unexpected that the Norwegian active administration, which is living by investing money, wants to be able to use the state’s money to invest in business and, of course, believes that this is a good solution for the country. But anyway, I don't think the proposal is very good. The task of the State is to provide framework conditions for the highest possible growth for the whole country and, of course, tough competition between companies. These objectives cannot be easily combined and often conflict with the State’s ownership role. Therefore, the country should not own the enterprises that can be run economically by private individuals. In Norway, an overly powerful state is, in fact, a much bigger problem than the fact that foreigners own enterprises in Norway. Then it is that in the last few days the Progress Party has been involved in granting huge sums, at least in proposals. Yesterday there was the kindergarten agreement, where there was a discounted value of that decision of 75-150 billion kroner, depending on the discounting factor used. So later on, the Structural Funds and the Social Security Fund come, which you're talking about funding with hundreds of billions of dollars. When you talk about the Structural Funds, the Norwegian business community is asking for this money. The question can be asked whether the business community itself lacks confidence in Norwegian business, because it wants the state to be a powerful investor in Norwegian business. Is there also a lack of confidence in Norwegian business leaders and Norwegian leadership that means that the State must be a guarantor of future investments? Do we believe that the state has been a successful investor so far in the projects it has been involved in? Where the country is often involved, the demand for returns is lower, and often when the results are negative, the requirement for subsidisation is increasing. What we need in Norway is entrepreneurial capital. It will grow out of initiative, creativity and work in the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, not through massive government spending of money on Norwegian business. It does not benefit business in the long term, nor does it benefit Norway and the nation in the long term. These are the framework conditions, lower taxes, etc. assisting Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2029	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3302]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2042	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. The President shall try as far as we can see, to provide guidance on the voting of the various parties to the various proposals, both primarily and subsidiaryly. If this is wrong, you should ask for the floor for an explanation of vote. We'll take the time we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2051	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Mr Vaggen Malvik, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, by Synnøve Konglevoll on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party proposal No. 6, by Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 7-11, by Synnøve Konglevoll on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Senter-Party proposal No. 12, by Synnøve Konglevoll on behalf of the Workers' Party proposals No. 13-17, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 18-22, from Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 18, 19, 20 and 22, of the Socialist Left Party, have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 18 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government introduce a ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste in order to reduce methane emissions.’ Proposal No. 19 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government is advised to ensure that the appropriations for Enova are gradually increased by increasing the amount of the network tariff. The mark-up in the network tariff must be doubled in 2003 to 0,6 øre/kWh and increased to 2 øre until 2005.’» Proposal No. 20 sounds in modified form: ‘In line with the objective of phasing out and replacing HFCs and PFCs, the Government is recommended to set 1 January 2006 as the last day those gases may be allowed to be imported, used and sold in new installations. The phase-out may be administered by the existing bodies. Corresponding phase-out targets are also set for the use of SF6 as an addition to the collection agreement.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government asks the Government to start reviewing existing laws and regulations with a view to adapting to national climate policy objectives.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop the framework and implement an innovation, research and development programme aimed at stimulating Kyoto-related environmental innovations in Norwegian business.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2115	There is a vote on the motions for resolutions. 13–17, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refrain from introducing the measures in the Climate Communication.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government for the full use of the Kyoto mechanisms by industry when and if the Kyoto Agreement is in place internationally.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to recover the socio-economic costs of implementing the Kyoto Agreement.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to refrain from introducing a national allowance system.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to await the introduction of the allowance system until there is a broad international allowance system in place’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2152	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to start the work of electrifying the socket. Before 2008, electrification shall be carried out on the cap combined with gas power stations with CO2 handling. Those projects should reduce CO2 emissions on the cap by approximately 3 million tonnes of CO2.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2167	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-11, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the return of a proposal for the creation of a National Carbon Fund to develop and establish new environmentally friendly technologies in which all activities can participate.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement an introduction programme for the use of biofuels.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘It is not open for Norwegian actors to take action under the CDM before 2008’;» [[CDM]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the allocation of a total free quota of 70 pst by the process industry. in relation to 1990 levels and concluding an agreement with industry on a 30 pst reduction. of greenhouse gas emissions in relation to 1990, to 11,8 million tonnes by the end of 2007.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The installation of water or airborne heating is required in all new commercial buildings with more than 1000 m2.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2204	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to come back with a concrete proposal on quality requirements for projects and allowances achieved through joint implementation and the Clean Development Mechanism.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2219	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop an overall plan for energy recovery in the industry based on the identification of the possibilities available to exploit recovered energy when industry, other actors and authorities are involved in commitment cooperation, to establish agreements with enterprises on energy recovery based on participation and cooperation with the authorities, to introduce a long-term tax exemption for recovered energy, to start work without delay.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2247	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to initiate negotiations on further reductions in greenhouse gas emissions over the period after the Kyoto period [[2008-2012]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government:1. Develop an action plan for the gradual conversion of heating with fossil fuels to heating with new renewable energy sources. The action plan shall be based on the following objective: 30 pst. conversion by 2005, 50 pst. conversion by 2008 and 80 pst. conversion by 2012.2. With effect from 1 January 2003, a temporary and equal aid scheme for new renewable energy sources corresponding to a half-electricity charge per year shall be established. 1 January 2002. The scheme shall effectively accelerate the process of initiating the production of new renewable energy in Norway, including the achievement of the objective of 4 TWh of thermal energy by 2010. The scheme is administered by Enova. The proposal to design the scheme is included in the 2003 budget.3. From 1 January 2003, a scheme for the grant of small-scale enterprises and households for the purchase of water or airborne heating installations with new renewable energy sources, including heat pumps, is hereby established to replace fossil heating or heating by means of panel furnaces.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to base the pollution law on greenhouse gas emissions until 2008 and asks the Government to come back to this in an outrageous proposition.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a hydrogen fund to be used to strengthen hydrogen as an alternative fuel. A network of at least 65 filling stations shall be established by 2008.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2312	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2399	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 5-7, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an action plan to ensure the blue-green structure of our urban areas.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to base the health and environmental criteria on the revision of the air quality regulations. The new regulations must also require that all new projects/actions that will increase air pollution in already charged areas cannot be implemented without compensatory measures.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the 2003 draft budget, to propose measures that could lead to the use of the land area over heavily worked roads.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2435	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an action plan for the sustainable use and protection of urban land, which ensures long-term and ecological defence management of the urban areas, and which promotes the consolidation of the urban structure.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to take new initiatives to start the construction of urban railways and to do so in conjunction with the 2003 State budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make Groruddalen an environmental zone with special measures and instruments to reduce air pollution, noise pollution and other environmental pressures, and to protect the environmental quality of Groruddalen.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to revise the ‘Regional policy guidelines to strengthen the interests of children and young people in planning’, with a view to making them clearer and more committed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2481	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland – he has been quite active today – has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the notified gas message to present a holistic Norwegian gas strategy in a European gas market as amended.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The delay in managing the gas market directive for the gas notification is imminent and there are real negotiated results on the content, balance and pace of the whole liberalisation process.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2507	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2522	Votes on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2002 [[(see section 4.4). Chapter of the Environmental Protection Act. XII § 73)]] The President notes that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are originally behind this proposal, which has been transmitted from the Odelstinget, and therefore expect the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against. – It seems to be a correct assumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2554	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Olav Akssen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 4, by Olav Akselsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Senter-Party proposal No. 5, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 6 and 7, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Party of Presidents 8 and 9, by Inge Ryan, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 10, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 11, from Olav Akssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1-10 is included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 11 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Mr Akselsen has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2586	It turns out by reading that proposal No. 4 is almost identical to proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I would therefore like, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre, to draw up proposal No. 4 in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Then there is a proposal distributed in the Chamber, proposal No. 11, and that is to understand that the distribution is of course to be made before V will be required to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2593	The President understood that the representative Olav Akssen drew up proposal No. 4 in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2596	Inge Ryan – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2599	A brief explanation of vote so that there will be no misunderstanding during the voting. Proposal No. 5 votes in favour. We expect it to fall, so subsidiaryly we vote in favour of proposal No. Three, point one. Proposal No. So 3, paragraph 2, we're going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2604	Marit Arnstad – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2607	Quite briefly, the members of the Central Party will, if proposal No. 5 falls, vote subsidiary to proposal No. Three, point one. In addition, the Centre Party supports Subsidiary Proposal No. 1, and otherwise for all Roman numerals in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2612	Then the explanations of vote that there was a need to give should be given. The President will first vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government in its 2003 draft State budget to propose exemptions from taxes on wealth on economic assets.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2627	The President will then vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Government notice on ownership, St.meld. No 22 A smaller and better state ownership, sent back to the Government.” [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2642	The President will then vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party: ‘The decision asks the Government not to sell more shares in Statoil ASA’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2656	The President will then vote on the proposal No. 6 and 7 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals in the 2003 State Budget on tax changes to strengthen access to risk capital for business and to improve the conditions for innovation, as stated above. the notes in the Innst. [[2001-2002]] S. No 264 Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Swedish Government asks:I. to investigate and propose an extension of the PES’s facilities to non-Nordic countries.II. to provide an assessment of a division of the Swedish Social Security Fund into several funds. The assessment must also include the possibility of placing funds in private equity and venture funds. III. to present an assessment of whether, in the event of the sale of State shares, the funds under point II should directly contribute State shares.IV. return to the Stortinget with proposals in the notified instrument notification or by the end of 2002 at the latest.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2691	The President will then vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government not to sell any more Telenor ASA shares.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2706	Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, is withdrawn. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The decision authorises the Government to sell the State’s shareholdings in Telenor ASA to 51.0 pst.2. The decision authorises the Government to approve purchases or mergers where Telenor ASA's axles are used as a means of exchange in the transaction. The country’s part of the company shall, following such a transaction, be at least 34 pst.’;» We're going to vote first over point 1. The President has understood that the Right, Christian People's Party and Left are opposed, while the Socialist Left supports the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2730	It is then voted over point 2. Here the President has understood it so that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left support the proposal subsidiaryly, while the SV is opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2742	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose, in the context of the 2003 State Budget, to extend the possibilities of the Fund’s placement to include placements in unlisted shares.’ Here the Centre Party has made it clear that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2759	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose ways of strengthening SND’s instruments to improve the access to capital to Norwegian business.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2774	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The government asks the government to set up a rapid selection in order to have a broad review with a view to better organisation and administration of state ownership.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2810	The President expects the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2830	Here the President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2850	The President expects the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-2.ana.ud2212e2902	There is no record.
