ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e51	The called alternate of the Vest-Agder County, Sigmund Kroslid, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representatives of Konradsen and Finn Kristian Marthinsen on leave from 2 December to 4 December, both in order to attend the 48th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly, Part Two, in Paris from the representative of Bjørn Jacobsen on leave from 2 December to 6 December in order to attend the Parliamentary Assembly at the 10th meeting of the São Paulo Forum, in Guatemala, These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the County of Buskerud, Unni Hennum Lie, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen from 2 December to 4 December, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the County of Buskerud: Geir Øystein Andersen For More and Romsdal County: Ingrid I. Opedal For Troms County: Anna Amdal Fyhn3. Ingrid I. Opedal is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the representative of Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e102	Geir Øystein Andersen, Ingrid I. Opedal and Anna Amdal Fyhn are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e107	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e112	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e117	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e125	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 15 and then we'll be back at 3:00 p.m. 17 for the evening meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Otherwise, if everything goes as normal and there won't be too many three-minutes, we'll be able to go to the vote in half a-hour coming night. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 5 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e190	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 4 hours and 5 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts, and that the speaking time be so distributed among the political groups: the working party 65 minutes, right 55 minutes, the progress party 35 minutes, the Socialist Left 35 minutes, the Christian People's Party 30 minutes, the Central Party 15 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. In addition, the representative Simonsen shall be given a speaking time of 5 minutes. It is proposed that the exchange of replies be arranged as follows: five replies will be made to the submissions of the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three replies to the submissions of the other state councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – All this shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e199	There has been a long budget harvest, and the Financial Committee has probably given up enough budgetary positions now. First, we gave the financial position on 20 November in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This one had no majority. Then, on 28 November, after the Storting had sent the financial position back to the committee, we gave the supplementary position. I want to commend the members of the Committee for their flexibility and flexibility during this harvest. But even though the harvest has been long, it has also been quite strange. The country received a new government a little over a year ago, which, through its creation, claimed that a new course was needed for the country, and thus also the need to replace the Workers' Party. The last thing I agree with, but the question was therefore great when the government parties, who were to be the commanders of this new course, went to the Workers' Party to try to negotiate a budget union. A new course meets old course – or was there really any new course when it came to the piece? The Norwegian economy has changed since the beginning of the government’s work on the 2003 government budget. Nevertheless, later on it is that the reality of a certain degree has hung right past the windows of the Ministry of Finance without being taken into account in particular. The Norwegian traditional mainland industry is flagging out of the country, unemployment is increasing and has not yet been captured by the latest statistics, simply because the statistics tell a story that has already become too old. It is not necessarily wrong for any industry to be shut down. Both this government, the Stoltenberg government, the Ministry of Finance and the Statistical Central Bureau have foreseen and wanted such a development. It is therefore a bit artificial when the Workers' Party is now talking about this as if it is completely unknown to them, when they themselves just said a little over a year ago that it was a wild policy to transfer labour from the competitive sector to the public sector. As you manage, you're lying, and it's not useful for the Workers' Party to explain this. A restructuring of Norwegian industry and industry is natural and necessary, but the point is that no one wants as hard and fast shifts as we now experience. And the key to doing something about this is the politicians. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have completely different recipes. The main difference is that the recipe of the Progress Party works, while the Workers Party does not. The real cause of concern is that the Government has no recipe at all beyond ‘probations’ of a tight budget — recriminations that have become more inconsistant than before, since the budget agreement for this year has been effectively uncovered with increased use of oil money. The recipe that works has several elements that have to work together. And I dare say that it is embedded in the 2003 Progress Party's alternative state budget. The Norwegian economy needs growth impulses. There are little growth impulses coming from a government that is still gnawing on economometric models that have expired. There is no point in making growth policies when you think that there is a firm and lasting ceiling on production, and that any demand stimulus will have to be reflected in higher prices or higher interest rates. With a monotonous focus on the demand side of the economy and without the ability to create tax- and tax-stimulated supply side effects, economic policy in Norway is in stable side rental. Strict budgets, grid management, fear of demand and accountability have been the sole subject of budgets for a number of years. The results cannot impress anyone: very low economic growth, high interest rates, increasing unemployment, to mention anything. The policies that have been pursued have produced results that are contrary to what has been its objectives. Norway therefore needs a new policy. We need economic growth. It requires a focus on creating growth impulses in the short and long term. Such growth impulses include:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t lower taxes and taxes, which affect both the short and long term expansion of infrastructure, in particular increased investment in research and development, both through the creation of government funds, public and private schools, colleges and universities, and tax incentives for research and development efforts in private enterprises and institutions Let me turn something of the rhetoric to the Workers' Party around: show me one recognized economist who disagrees that these are instruments for increasing growth. The Progress Party has proposed tax reductions of DKK 28.5 billion in its alternative budget. We have cut public spending by approx. half and the corresponding reduction in the country’s profits. This also means that the Progress Party's alternative government budget has DKK 12.3 billion in lower underlying expenditure than the Government's. In other words, it's completely possible to find real cuts in the budget, if you just want to. In addition, the Progress Party has proposed to establish a foreign budget for the purchase of equipment and services from other countries, which, of course, does not seem significant in Norwegian inflation, and therefore does not threaten interest rates. For me, it becomes more and more incomprehensible that we leave to carry out reasonable purchases when we can afford to do so, and when the consequences become more effective use of the resources that are already at work. For a long time, we have received negative reports on how the management of our petroleum assets is developing. We see that a one-sided focus on placing all the profits the nation has, in securities abroad, is not necessarily the only rewarding way to increase the value of our savings. There's an alternative way to save. The whole point of saving is that we put the money into something to increase the return, so it's going to be more of them. Why, then, should one have such a monotonous fear of investing any of this in one's own country, in infrastructure construction, in research, in education, which we know over time will increase the value of our wealth overall? And why aren't we going to use any of this space of action to develop more funds – funds that can build up to solve some of the challenges we're facing? Not long ago, a fund for research was set up that we regularly fill in a little, so that the return on research in Norway is to be promoted. And once you've done that, why can't you go ahead and set up a similar fund, for example for acquisitions into Norwegian defence or for research into energy development, which is one of the really big forces Norway has. We have the capital -- let's get it back to us. The Progress Party, based on the negotiations carried out, will provide its subsidiary support for the adjusted regime of the Government Parties. We're not doing this with any great enthusiasm. On the contrary. We do it because the option would have been worse. Getting the Workers' Party back in government offices, well supported by SV and a staunch Christian People's Party, had been going from bad to worse. Our contribution through the budgetary process is that we are now going from bad to slightly better. Although there are many things we would like to have had an impact on, but that we have not succeeded in, it is, after all, all the important things we have had through. We have managed to increase the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, one thing The Progress Party has been fighting for for very many years. It's a great victory, not least for the country's pensioners, that this city has now exploded. Despite the fact that the Progress Party has been alone on this for a number of years, I now record that both the Prime Minister and other politicians suddenly hurry to claim that this has actually been their intention for a very long time, they have only been hurt to vote down the proposals of the Progress Party on every possible occasion. We have also received increased depreciation rates, which have been a unanimous demand from both business and trade unions. The same requirement has been made for the Government’s proposal to extend the employer’s period of leave. It's not going to be anything now either. Self-esteem is not increased, which is very important for many, and the Government’s proposal to impose limits on the deduction of disease costs is not introduced. Minimum pensioners are exempted from the allowance on a blue prescription. There will be a little more money for treatment abroad and a little more money for road construction. It becomes a little bit more tax-free for those who have at least already. There will be some tax reductions, including: in the case of the hated inheritance tax, the annual fee on motorcycles and caravans and the levy on spirits. As far as the latter is concerned, no one should believe that this is a significant contribution to reducing border trade. With recent developments in our neighbouring countries, border trade will probably only continue to increase. But those who don't have a simple route across the border will at least get reduced prices on some of the Vinmonopole's goods, and it can be nice now in these dark times. The kindergarten agreement is fully financed, and the municipalities get about. 700 million. kr more. It's going to have an earmarked loan frame of 500 million. kr in the House Bank for the construction of rehabilitation sites and health homes abroad. There's going to be an increased lending framework of $1 billion for refurbishment of school buildings. There'll be more money to fight crime. And the reimbursement system and the net pay system for ferry companies are continued, as well as changes in tonnage tax are made. But this is not enough if you really want to maintain a strong Norwegian shipping industry. That is why it is sought when the Workers' Party in its rhetoric is talking about industry, but the next moment fails to vote for what is really going to happen, namely the full net pay system for all seafarers exposed to competition. Alternative medicine is exempted from VAT for the purposes of the revised budget. And the disability should still have the opportunity to make some money next to the social security. We have also achieved some structural changes, in particular with a focus on competition and rational use of money in the municipal sector, better interaction between public and private hospitals, etc. I mentioned that there are also a number of things we haven't gotten through for, and that's what I'm the first one to be sorry for. But to all those who would like to have seen things differently: it is necessary to consider what alternatives you had. The contribution of the Progress Party in this respect is to prevent the tax-free and anti-business socialists from re-government in Norway. It could go badly beyond employment, because the profitability of businesses would deteriorate significantly, and it could affect quite ordinary people who pay enough taxes and taxes from before. There's reason to fear. It's just to go in and see what the Workers' Party has proposed in its alternative budget. Thousands of thousands of ordinary employees would receive more tax if the Labour Party budget had been adopted. But I am more and more amazed at the Christian People's Party. It is simply not possible for the Christian People's Party to discharge its governmental responsibilities. It is in the government's Christian People's Party's policy now being practiced in practice. The government's policy is also the Christian People's Party's policy. And then the Christian People's Party's big-time representatives and government members can't run around and try to imagine people that they really wanted things different, or even try to take credit for the relatively modest changes that the Progress Party has forced through in the negotiations. Speaking in tongues may be well known to the Christian People's Party, but speaking with two tongues is something quite different. And it would have been neat for the process we are now in, that everyone continued to take responsibility for what they themselves have been part of, instead of running away from responsibility when it's out of the ordinary. It does not serve this process. I am putting forward the financial position and at the same time I am addressing the proposals that the Progress Party either promotes alone or is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e271	Siv Jensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e276	We have just received a presentation of what might be called a subsidiary economic policy. However, I believe that in line with what the representative Jensen recently said, the Progress Party must also act as follows: there is no subsidiary reality. There's only one reality. That reality is affected by what is adopted tonight in this Chamber, where the government parties and the Progress Party vote together for the State budget. That reality involves, among other things: a number of non-social cuts are implemented. I remember that when the state budget was presented, the representative Carl I. Hagen, the representative Jensen and others from the Progress Party were sad and tired. Yes, it was to cry over, so deficient and wrong was this state budget. But this evening, they will vote in favour of a budget which means cut off the daily allowance for those who are unemployed, cut off the lonely caregivers, cut the tomb aid, and older and disabled people get more expensive medicine. When the representative Jensen talks about thousands of thousands of people who get increased taxes, I have to point out that the budget adopted tonight, by means of the votes of the Progress Party, means that 625,000 old-age and non-pensioners now get a share of blue prescription medicine. They can thank the Progress Party and the Government parties for that, because they are voting in favour of the budget tonight. Then my question is: is the representative Jensen sorry for that? Is it no longer a provocation? Is it acceptable tonight?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e283	As I said in my post, there are many things in the budget that are being adopted today, with which we in the Progress Party are not satisfied – many things! But there would be significantly more things that would have gone in the definitely wrong direction if the Workers' Party had got a clear path right into the government offices again. I think it is a little sad that the Workers' Party dares to take the very offensive line that they are now doing, just one year after they even sat in the government offices. The Labour Party has dominated the government offices throughout the post-war period, and what in the world has the Workers' Party to boast of, which is so great for the Norwegian economy that we should keep getting the Workers' Party back to government? I can't see what it should be. With the taxpayer, with the glow of kicking away her legs under small and medium-sized enterprises that are the whole support of the Norwegian economy and for our jobs, it would be far more irresponsible. I agree with Hill-Marta Solberg that there is no subsidiary reality. We are very aware of the consequences of the decisions taken today, but we are also very aware of what would be the consequences if completely different things had been adopted. That's why this becomes a choice between plague and cholera. It's not a choice between the perfect and the bad, but we've tried through the negotiations we've been through, to fix at least some of the unsocial cuts that were in the government's original budget proposal. I record that much of the Advance Party has been created, the Workers' Party agrees. They should therefore be happy that someone has taken responsibility instead of running away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e290	Let me first commend the Progress Party because the party would be involved and take responsibility for the budget. It was constructive negotiations, and it was a result that I am pleased that the Progress Party can live with and that the government parties also live well with. We get a budget that helps secure jobs. There are many along our long-distance coast that have been concerned about their workplaces this fall. We now have a tight budget adopted to help dampen the pressure. We get a budget that will help create new growth and new development by focusing more on higher education, more on research and development, and by reducing taxes. We get a budget with a good social profile by spending more on poverty reduction, both at home and in poor countries, and well-being is being expanded by spending more on hospitals, psychiatry and kindergartens. I'm recording that Siv Jensen is talking about the conspiracies about a tight budget. When we talk about a tight budget, it's to help secure jobs in the competitive sector. After all, this message has not come primarily from the economists of the Institute of Social Economics. This is a message that has come from businesses, from businesses that live in competitive reality. It's been the message from the Society's Main Organization, it's been the message from LO, and it's been the message from the many small and medium-sized businesses along our coast. They are the ones talking about the need for a tight budget. When the government budget was presented, business judgment was positive, because it would help to dampen the pressure and thus secure jobs. I do not ask the representative Jensen why she does not listen to the economists, because we have heard that before. But why does the representative, Siv Jensen, not want to listen to business even when they are asking for a tight budget for safe jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e299	I've listened, I've listened well, and I've also come to realize that reality has changed since the government snowcreed together the budget that is the basis for this debate. I don't think Jan Tore Sanner has gotten that when he continues to treat reality as if nothing has changed. We've only seen dramatic changes in the past few weeks. We are seeing more and more redundancies, more and more uncertainty, and more and more companies flagging out. Then it does not help in fine party speeches to talk about safe workplaces. Then you have to do something to do it. I think, unfortunately, that in a very short time, as long as we get to New Year's, we have to make some changes, so that we can really secure the jobs we have. So over the years, we have heard the same rumours about the need for a tight budget to bring interest down. But what's the consequence? We have had relatively tight budgets. Despite this, there has been no particularly strong decline in Norwegian interest rates. Then the government parties should also take this inward and perhaps consider whether the recipe you have followed year after year is the only one true, when we are in the situation that more and more people are unemployed and the interest rate is still high.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e306	The chairperson of the Committee spends a lot of time saying that reality has changed, and that means that new industrial instruments must be put in place. Let me first just take a little parentheses about this, because if it really was, the Progress Party should now agree that the unilateral inflation target that has been introduced, it was basically the Progress Party that was alone in this room. And then, all of a sudden, the bulk of the population was tricked, and after that, it's really gone away for the Norwegian industry, with a record-breaking crown and a record-breaking interest rate, which is essentially due to a whole new measure of how this is to be determined. We should therefore no longer be linked to economic policy. Financial policy and monetary policy are therefore no longer linked, and it is the industry that must bleed for, and the industry can send a little friendly thought to the Progress Party that has been the target of this in this Chamber. That means that if you were to think of new means, the first thing would be to have a monetary and financial policy that is related to each other, and a less independent central bank. The progress party is largely due to the fact that Norwegian industry is now bleeding, and the Progress Party must also take it inwards. So I notice the following, and that's basically what's my challenge to the Advancement Party: The Advancement Party has clearly the admirable piece of art to pretend that they're inside, and pretend they're outside, at the same time. It is the strongest opposition party, while at the same time all important crossroads it has supported the sitting government. That means that the government is now basked and tied to the Advance Party, and I guess the Advance Party is similarly bound to the Government, in a little strange symbiosis. This day, Carl I. Hagen was at the Shipping Club and made his bees green, or maybe he made his bees blue. At least he escaped where the cat came out of the bag and said that his goal was a government of the Advancement Party and the Right. So that means that today you're kind of later like being inside and outside – you're in opposition to Right Policy, and you're in position when it's necessary. The interesting question for Siv Jensen is this: Does she agree with this? Is the long-term project of the Progress Party a government of the Advance Party and the Right? In that case, it means that the rhetoric of the Advance Party in many fields must be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e313	I must first be allowed to comment on the first Øystein Djupedal to raise, namely this with Norwegian monetary policy and inflation targets. No attempt must be made to present it as a strange phenomenon. This is a monetary policy regime that all, most of the countries of the Western world, have. This is necessary because it helps to stabilise the price increase, which has a significantly greater impact on the Norwegian economy than if it had run smoothly. It is not that with another monetary policy regime we would automatically get the dollar rate and the interest rate down. On the contrary, there are a number of other factors that particularly affect the development of the krone price, and the representative Djupedal knows that very well. That is why he should also help to ensure that the monetary policy regime that we have now is calmed down, and that we who sit in this Chamber influence what we have the opportunity to influence, namely the financial policy mechanism. And if there's at least one thing that's absolutely certain, it's that maybe the most important contribution to being a budget unit in the harvest is keeping the government offices out of the way. It is not that the Advance Party is bound to the Government. The Progress Party has chosen to give an adjusted arrangement of its subsidiary support, but we are far from bound, and it will certainly become visible in the time to come. With regard to the potential goal of government participation in the Advance Party, it is based on the fact that on repeated occasions we have expressed our willingness to take responsibility. We have defined our potential partners. But it is up to the voters to decide how they want the Stortinget to be composed, so that it is possible to get a stable majority government in Norway after the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e320	First, there is reason to pay tribute to the Progress Party, which, on the upside, took responsibility and contributed to a plural solution for the budget and accepted its framework and rigour in the budget. It is a good property to set aside the primary principle when the situation so requires. Then Siv Jensen made a little visit to the Christian People's Party at the end of his article. To that it is said that of course the Christian People's Party stands 100 pst. behind the bidding agreement. We are well-founded with the budget agreement. He has a profile and many good things as the Christian People's Party stands 100 pst. within. I am here referring to an offensive profile that will help both to save existing jobs and to create new ones, a distribution profile in particular with a view to bringing about poverty both in our own country and outside the poorest of the poor, better framework conditions for voluntary teams and organisations, the continuation and further development of the freedom of choice for young children's parents, etc., etc. However, I have some questions for the Progress Party and for their primary budget. When they want to spend $15 billion more of the oil revenues, something that most trade unions warn against and say will create shocks in the Norwegian economy, doesn't the Progress Party sometimes worry that they might be wrong? Would it not have been better at least to try small-scale trials – in case they, entirely theoretically, would have multiples for their policies – if the damage were severe? Have they thought such thoughts? The other thing is that they want to cut the press support by 50 pst, which will mean the death of several meaningful newspapers. We know that the media are crucial in a democracy. Has the Progress Party thought through it, if with its policy they lead to the disappearance of the relevant newspapers? What kind of society would we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e332	‘Small-scale trials’ requested the representative of Sørfonn. Yes, by itself you know others. This is precisely how one can easily describe the government's policies by day: small-scale attempts, a policy that really does not change much in relation to the policies of those to be taken over after. And that's really the most alarming thing. The new government, with the new course, yes, where is it? Where's the new course? The propulsion party has begun to identify it. We have called for it many times, and soon must also have come the time for the Government to start showing the Sem-Declaration's promises in practice. So to the challenge of thinking carefully before proposing to use some of our profits in Norway rather than saving it abroad. Yes, there is a difference between using and consuming. And what we are proposing in our alternative budget is essentially for two purposes. One is to reduce taxes and charges, because we know that there is a positive impact on the Norwegian economy. We know that it means increasing the productivity of the companies. We know that means that more people can live better from their own income. We proposed to reduce the electricity charge by 5 cents, at a time when electricity prices are shooting in the weather. Why in the world does the Christian People's Party disagree? So this is definitely thoughtful. And unlike the Christian People's Party, we dare to stand upright also on the matters where we cut. So it's not like some people like to claim, that the Progress Party always turns the cap after the wind and has everything for all good purposes. After all, we are cutting over the expenditure side of the State budget much more than the government has been able to do, and it has also resulted in that we have now ended up salinizing the budget unit with what the Minister of Finance has formerly called 'harry money'.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e345	The Progress Party has received SEK 4.4 billion to distribute its affairs through this conciliation. There is a lot of money, but there is not one penny for health companies in Norway, and nothing is done to remove the cut in the tomb support. When the budget was presented, Jon I. Alvheim said: "I'm sick of being exposed to dead people." And Carl I. Hagen said the following: ‘This is a personal attack on John Alvheim.’ Now the Progress Party has been involved in that estimation. The centre party has granted the health billion that Alvheim has called for. We spend money on free medicine on a blue recipe for all pensioners and disabled people – as the Progress Party has promised. We keep the baby supplement in the child's back. We're keeping today's SFO grant. We don't agree to the halves that the government went in for. And we do not agree to cut up to NOK 20 000 per day for those who have become unemployed. We don't believe that people find work easier if they have too little to live on. They might take one too bad job. And we don't babysitting lone mothers who go to school to try to get started. It is the responsibility of the Progress Party that they have not used that money to do anything about these issues, and my question is as follows: Why is the Progress Party fighting for the gravitational support and for a health billion only when it is direct broadcasting on television?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e366	As I said in my post, there are many aspects of this budget that we are still not satisfied with, but we have managed to reverse several of the unsocial cuts the government added. Some remain, unfortunately. But I'll repeat once again that the option would have been worse. So to the health businesses. It is gratifying that the Centre Party has also discovered that a significant deficit has occurred in health businesses during 2002 as a result, among other things. health care establishments have been better at treating patients. At the time of the establishment of the budget framework for 2002, a growth in patient treatment was estimated at 1.5 pst in the current year. And then it turns out that several of the health companies have managed to double it, which has resulted in the money bag being empty, because we don't have a fully developed priced financing system where hospitals get paid every time they treat a patient. It must now prove to be the most important incentive we can give to health businesses, namely that they are premiered when they are good and effective and treat more patients. However, the consequences of this must already be taken in a very short time, when the Storting is going to deal with the resalation of the current year's budget. For this is a relationship that has arisen in the current year. In that case, it is also fully possible to fine it in the current year by providing the funds needed to cover the deficits of hospitals and by entering the 2003 budget with the fresh funds in place. So my challenge goes right back to Morten Lund. Does he wish to support such a proposal by the Progress Party, which will be presented in the context of the new ageing of the 2002 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e375	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e378	Combating increasing unemployment, what is needed to maintain industrial jobs in this country, how to ensure good schooling and good care for the elderly, and other important effects of the policies pursued, should have marked this budget harvest. Unfortunately, the government's lack of willingness to clarify its basis in the Storting has given the budgetary procedure a political signal instead. Nearly as the bee has the government's batches lashed around from batch to batch in the hope that pollination would produce results somewhere. The result is now on the table, and that is the effect of the budget for which the government parties and the Progress Party vote this evening, which must now be discussed. The working party strongly disagrees with many aspects of the budget adopted. It has been a long time since we have received a government budget with so many unsocial cuts, and unfortunately the agreement with the Progress Party has not been far removed from the unsocial nature of the budget. The majority of the majority of the population, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, decide this evening to cut the social security of the unemployed, cut it in support of the child care services of lone dependants, remove the infant allowance in child care, remove it from the blue prescription for the elderly and disabled – no less than 625,000 are affected by it – it becomes more expensive school leisure arrangements, it is cut for disabled people who need special assistance, and it is cut in the tomb assistance, to mention something. This is the Labour Party strongly disagreed with, and in our alternative we have removed these cuts. The need for a tight budget has been the reason of the Government also for the unsocial cuts. The Labour Party agrees with the need for a tight budget for the purposes of the exchange rates, interest rates and employment. But we strongly disagree that it is taken from those who have it difficult, and who have at least, while giving tax relief to those who have the most from before. The government parties, together with the Progress Party, adopt a government budget that makes tax cuts for those who have the most, at the expense of social protection. The fight against increasing unemployment must be the main objective of the financial framework for the next year. Our competitive business is being pushed by high prices and high interest rates. The government will track 100,000 unemployed next year. This means that the State budget must help to reduce the pressure, while stimulating innovation and conversion. The Labour Party considers that the budget adopted is not well enough designed to meet this situation. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has a tighter structure than the majority. The oil-corrected deficit is DKK 28.5 billion – that is DKK 2.2 billion lower than what the Government proposed, and for which the majority is in favour. Our alternative therefore provides a good basis for lower interest rates and weaker kroner. It will improve the conditions for our export-oriented business. The expenditure growth in our alternative is well below the growth in the value creation in mainland Norway, which is defined as a target in the national budget. The Labour Party proposes a food and employment package of approximately NOK 2.3 billion. Industry has strongly underlined the importance of increasing depreciation rates for machinery in order to contribute to job security. The Labour Party proposes an increase in depreciation rates from 15 to 20 p.m., and we are pleased that this is also a priority in the budget agreement. The working party is also in favour of maintaining the net pay system for employees of the ferry companies and the reimbursement system for seafarers of NIS and NOR. It is a good thing that the parties to the government have reached the same conclusion in negotiations. The Labour Party believes that the State must contribute to innovation and innovation. More attention needs to be paid to regional and industrial development. The budgets of the SND were severely shaved in the 2002 budget. There were many loud protests against it. We propose to strengthen regional and industrial development by 400 million. kr next year - that's absolutely necessary. To our great amazement, the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party means a further cut of over 100 million. kr in district development. The Workers' Party proposes to increase the number of labour market measures by 1,700 places in addition to what the Government proposes, while strengthening the Aetate by more resources. Active labour market policies are important to improve the functioning of the economy. We have to be able to build a bridge from the job queue to the vacancies. This is done, inter alia: in the case of the qualification and training of the unemployed. The Workers' Party will also maintain the current rules on day-to-day pay and leave. The budget cuts are up to 10 pst. So the government, as I have already mentioned, announces increasing unemployment and at the same time proposes that the unemployed get worse. Unfortunately, the Progress Party will ensure that this is done this evening by a majority. As part of our business and employment package, the appropriations for transport and public transport are also increased, because a well-developed transport system is important for business. School leave will hit the weakest; must cut teacher positions; missing 2 million. For home health care – these are some cuts from the local viewers’ headlines in the last few days. Municipalities are not able to avoid cuts in school and care for the elderly. Desperate rapporteurs have tried to make Stortinget realize that the situation is hopeless throughout the autumn. The budgetary agreement does nothing to correct this. The increase that is coming is less than what the Government itself has determined that municipalities are losing in reduced tax revenue this year. The Workers' Party proposes to increase the income of municipalities by a total of NOK 3 billion more than in the Government's proposal. Of these, about SEK 1.9 billion is an increase in the free income, the income that municipalities use to create a good school and a good care for the elderly. The working party will increase the earmarked grants by over NOK 1 billion. These increases go to the school leisure system, to cheaper kindergartens, to free camp schools, to loan schemes for high school textbooks, to cultural buildings and to local environmental work. In the agreement they have entered into with the Progress Party, the Government estimates that the State will receive increased revenue from the sale of property and concession. The budget agreement prioritises tax relief on motorcycles and spirits. We have heard that the representative Jensen has presented it as an important result from the point of view of the Progress Party. Instead, the working party will improve the situation for hospitals by just over NOK 0.5 billion. I am surprised that not exactly the Progress Party saw this need as more important than tax relief. I am pleased that the budget agreement ensures a good follow-up to the nursery agreement. There has never been such a strong commitment to the development of new kindergartens and to reduce parental pay as in the next year. It's a direct consequence of the agreement that the majority of Stortinget agreed on in ours. The working party will also join the increase in the minimum deduction and in the pension of married and cohabiting pensioners. When the Progress Party now votes for next year's government budget, they ensure the majority for a number of unsocial cuts and for a municipal economy that will involve cuts in elderly care and cuts in school. Since the agreement was a fact, we have already seen how the Progress Party is trying to run from responsibility for everything that is not good enough in the budget – as far as it is known. Carl I. Hagen wants the credit to secure the budget, but he won't take responsibility for the result. The representative, Jensen, came in a line change earlier today with the eye-catching news that the budget agreement is likely to last only just as long as the new year, so one had to understand what was said. Once the government parties have concluded a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, this government confirms its dependence on Hagen. Grants to the Progress Party on Privatisation of School and Health Policy clearly align the policy with the right. The Progress Party is the basis of the Government, so it is not really unnatural that the Progress Party supports the Government's budget. On the contrary. But the strange thing is that the parties do not acknowledge each other and that the Progress Party does not take responsibility for all aspects of the budget they are to adopt in the Grand Chamber tonight. The Christian People's Party chose last year to form a government with the Right, with the Advance Party as the basis of the Government. As this Greatness is compounded, there could have been another majority. If the Christian People's Party had chosen to form a majority where the centre-left parties joined forces, development would have gone in a different direction. Instead, the heavy right-wing dominance given to the budget could be marked by the struggle for work and well-being, and the social cuts could have been replaced by fair distribution. I take this up with me the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e435	Hill-Marta Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e440	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg ran over something she called Siv Jensen's subsidiary reality in a previous string change. When you listen to the contributions of the Workers' Party, you can wonder what reality the Workers' Party is living in. You have at least forgotten to turn on the light, because the complexion of black paint has to be searched for a long time. It is simply not serious and not very credible when the Workers' Party is hammering against what they call unsocial cuts. Never before has there been any further effort to combat poverty in Norway and in the poor world. Aid is being increased. The housing aid for the poorest is being increased. A separate Roof 2 scheme is introduced to ensure that people with extra large health costs are more covered than before. The welfare community is being expanded by spending more on hospitals, more on psychiatry and more on kindergartens. With the arrangements of the Workers' Party, 250,000 more Nordics with normal incomes have to pay top taxes. Otherwise, I register the Crocodile tears of the Workers' Party in terms of industry and business. What does it help to talk about the companies in the competitive sector when, at the same time, there are large new tax increases affecting business, which affect the owners who invest their own money in businesses? The result of the Labour Party's policy will be that companies move out and that workers lose their jobs. When the Labour Party talks – not in this debate, but in other debates – about the need to strengthen national ownership, how worldwide should national ownership be strengthened when it comes to those degrees of private ownership in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e447	I can assure the representative, Mr Sanner, and everyone else, that the alternative budget presented by the Workers' Party in the financial position is in line with today's light. But the government parties must also bear in mind that the impact of the budget they have submitted and for which they have been supported by the Progress Party is being highlighted. I note that the representative, Sanner, deeply dislikes being confronted with the fact that, together with the Progress Party tonight, he will vote for a series of cuts in arrangements designed specifically for people who have difficulties. Earlier today in this debate, there has been talk of talking to several tongues – yes, indeed, the Government. They boast on the one hand of a poverty package, a package that does not reach in the vicinity in relation to the extent of the restrictions on the same batches in the case of the unemployed – not least the unemployed. The paradox is that at the same time it is said that there are more unemployed, it is presented in the national budget, but allows to pull the screw properly – it will be harder to be unemployed. You take from the elderly and invalidate the exemption that they were granted in respect of excess on blue prescription. 625,000 elderly and disabled people are thus treated with more expensive medicines on a blue prescription. Nor will it be spared – at the tamp of the agreement with the Progress Party – to cut the child care system for single dependants. Then it sounds strange to me that you can still stand up and praise yourself from a poverty package.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e452	Hill-Marta Solberg just now said that Jan Tore Sanner had to bear that there was a searchlight on the impact of his policy. Yes, then I also hope that Hill-Marta Solberg will be able to cope with the impact of the Labour Party's policy. That's why I'm going to ask a very specific question, and I hope that it will be answered just as concretely. In the draft budget of the Labour Party for next year, the Labour Party is proposing tax increases for 250,000 ordinary employees in Norway, i.e. for 250,000 people. What is it about such a tax increase that is social policy? What is it about such a policy that will help to secure jobs or help more people survive from their own income? I would very much like an answer to that. I want an answer to that and not an answer to all of the other things that the Labour Party might propose in the budget if they had only had any influence over it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e459	In economic policy and in tax policy as well, it is true that the representative Jensen and I are actually standing in each of our branches, we are not competing in the same genre, we are never passing the same finish line in any case. I don't think it's possible to ignore the fact that the Workers' Party's alternative budget actually contains overall tax reliefs of around NOK 7 billion. It's made here as tax increases. We have only a little less relief than the government parties and the Progress Party, and then, like that, it's going to be an expression of huge tax increases. I think that's a delusion. It is not a correct picture of the Workers' Party's alternative budget. In the case of top taxes, I have to say the following: the Labour Party proposed for the current year, 2002, to increase the entry point for the top tax by around NOK 50 000. It was a big boost that was made, it was actually so big that it was good enough for the government. It was good enough for Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss, he was satisfied with it. So the Workers' Party has really made adjustments to the top tax entry point. We're actually adjusting it up this year, and we're also increasing that point of entry this year. If it is the case that the Progress Party and the representative Jensen believe that this is the best example of how the Labour Party's tax policy works, then I would say it was not quite true. So it's not like we're putting up with that competition to spend the most on tax relief, and especially on those who have the most. What characterises the Workers' Party's tax regime is that tax austerity is primarily applied to those who have the most, not least to those who make large profits. It was a gift package for the very group when the government last year, together with the Progress Party, removed tax on dividends.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e468	There are many things in the Workers' Party's budget that SV sees with sympathy, because the Workers' Party has now found in opposition to much of what has been missing for many years, not least focusing on fair distribution, which has now become significantly larger. I agree with your heart and I am pleased about that. It also means that it is positive that the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party have now been able to agree on important political challenges for our country in their attitude. It's a good signal that it's possible to imagine that at some point an alternative majority can be established in the Storting, and that's positive. For the policy that is being pursued today, for the nation is very unfortunate. A weak minority government that continues to function with the support of the Advance Party is no good, neither the inhabitants nor the industry. But let me then take what is my challenge to Hill-Marta Solberg. I agree with a lot of what the Workers' Party says about the challenges of unemployment, which are now at risk of rising to 100,000 over the winter. It's a disturbingly high number. Very many viable Norwegian communities and viable Norwegian enterprises are now shutting down, among other things. because the interest rate is high and because the interest rate has increased by more than 10 pst. the last year. What's troubling about this is that we've got a monetary policy regime that the Workers' Party actually proposed, but which, in the past, only the Progress Party in the Biggest had agreed on, where inflation is one-sided and not all of these other important conditions in the economy that are needed to create a whole you have to take into account. This relates to output, employment and not least to the price of the crown. What we have now received means that the industry is penalised by the principles of the Bank of Norway, and the Stortinget is not willing to take the necessary steps to get the whole thing back, get back some degree of governance related to the exchange rate and interest rate. I'm surprised that the Workers' Party so stiffly defends this system that obviously doesn't work. My question to Hill-Marta Solberg is: Does she not think it would be necessary to clarify in the regulation that employment and production should also be given priority in the situation of Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e476	I must first say that it is nice that the representative, Mr. Djupedal, highlights all the points in the Workers' Party's arrangement that SV supports, and also indicates that in the financial position, the Workers' Party, SV and also the Centre's party stand together with common comments in a number of areas. It is important that we also use the financial position to show the political alliances that exist in the Storting. It's clear that we also make it visible in this setting. I have to say that the question of monetary policy that Djupedal is asking me now seems to me to have got a few times before. It might also come again several times. Once again, I must remind Mr Djupedal that in the premises of the current monetary policy regime we have, it is in fact stated that production and employment should be given priority. In fact, these relationships are not to be set aside in the exercise of monetary policy. I have also concluded on previous answers to Djupedal in the same way that the Workers' Party concludes today. We believe that there is no reason to change the regulations in relation to the Bank of Norway. But we also do not want to operate the daily management of the Norwegian Bank from Stortinget. We accept the division of labour that we have. This is the Minister of Finance's table. The ongoing follow-up to the monetary policy provisions, guidelines and regulations is his and the Government's responsibility, and it is also the Government that should follow up. We should not be acting on the part of the Storting in such a way as to contribute to unnecessary uncertainty as to what kind of monetary policy and the currency regime Norway actually has.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e485	The Labour Party complains about an unsocial profile in the budget. The Labour Party had the chance to participate and influence the budget through an agreement, but they chose themselves to stand out from influence. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to point out that the budget has a device, among other things. ensuring a good social profile, including the fight against poverty both at home and abroad. It has an offensive profile when it comes to caring for existing jobs and innovation. It provides better conditions for voluntary teams and organisations. The budget is good for families, for small children's parents, etc. But the Labour Party therefore criticises the government party for unsocial cuts and for an unsocial profile. Then it may be natural to stop a bit and ask some questions. For the Workers' Party itself is part of a multiplicity that – as far as I understand – makes it a very lucrative treat to having children in a free occupational nursery. One can save tens of thousands of dollars on this. Is there such a social profile that the Workers' Party wants? Or is this a little work accident? In addition, in recent years the Labour Party has had an alternating commitment in relation to the fleet industries and employment related to maritime transport. In the proposal from the majority, there is a continuation both of the reimbursement scheme and of the net pay scheme for ferry companies, as well as a reduction of the tonnage tax by 30 pst. And there's a lot of other conversions within the fleet industry. I have recorded that the trade union spokesman in the Workers' Party, Olav Akselsen, has, in several respects, been in charge of a general net pay scheme. Among other things, he says to local Sunnhordland last Friday that he ‘can guarantee... that Ap no will work to secure Norwegian shipping and Norwegian seafarers’ good conditions ‘as competitors have’. He also says, ‘We are in favour of a net pay scheme.’ My question is: why is this not reflected in the draft budget by the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e498	Let me first say that I am not in any doubt for a moment that the Christian People's Party knows very well – it has very many representatives from the Christian People's Party, not only here in the Chamber, but also in the country, their rapporteurs and elected representatives outside, clearly stated – that if the Christian People's Party had found a solution with the Workers' Party, it would have been closer to the Christian People's Party. Yeah, I think so. In that case, it would have been in line with a great deal of good practice here in Stortinget, where the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have for many years adopted the budgets together, and where these parties have agreed that there has been more common in the distribution policy especially than what has been found with the right parties. So I understand that there are many in the Christian People's Party that the situation has become as it is. I don't need to pour salt into that wound. [[muttering in the hall]] I have already praised the government parties for finally – now in the supplementary position and in the agreement with the Progress Party – that it was right to continue the net pay system and the reimbursement system for seafarers, which the Government had initially cut out. They've been praised for that already. And the representative of Sørfonn knows very well that the Workers' Party has also taken initiative in relation to the Government, by turning to the Minister of Industry and asking for work to be started to see how to extend the scheme to ensure the other parts of Norwegian, competitive shipping as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e509	The Centre Party has chosen to give priority to three areas during the year's budgetary procedure: creating and maintaining jobs, ensuring municipalities' incomes to provide good services in school and care for the elderly, and ensuring a fairer distribution and avoiding an increase in the difference between those who have the most and those who have the least. There is a significant convergence between the priorities of the Centre Party and what the Working Party has done, with some different arrangements and different dosages. My question to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg is nevertheless linked to monetary policy. In my opinion, the Labour Party places too much emphasis on fiscal policy and takes too little account of the effects of monetary policy. In his reply to the reply of the representative Øystein Djupedal, Hill-Marta Solberg said that monetary policy is the responsibility of the Government. However, in the budgetary position, the Labour Party agrees that the Norwegian Bank's operational implementation of monetary policy should be directed towards low and stable inflation. At the National Labour Party meeting, a decision was taken by Hallvard Bakke in an article in the Newspaper called ‘the main political decision at the national meeting’, namely ‘The Labour Party will contribute to stable exchange rates and contribute to stabilising the development of production and employment’. This position divides the centre part completely. We have therefore put forward a proposal for consideration today, which calls for clarification of the mandate to focus more on production and employment than on low inflation. Hallvard Bakke goes on to say: ‘The management of the party should have pointed out, for the most part, that the regulation obliges the bank to pay attention also to the exchange rate. Therefore, it was an important decision and order for the party leadership to attend the national meeting. However, the decision is of little value if it is not followed up, and the first occasion is the financial position this week.» My question to the representative of Solberg will then be: Why does the Labour Party not use this opportunity to clarify the mandate, as the national meeting has adopted? Is it because the Workers' Party still believes that the industry should give jobs to the public sector, as the Government of Stoltenberg called for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e523	I think this is due to a strange change of words, because – to put it mildly – now it was the other representative who was present and claimed that this with production and employment is not included in the provisions for the exercise of monetary policy. That's it. It's just like this. The working party sees no reason for us to repeat the same thing again. It is laid down in the monetary policy legislation, about word law, as the representative of Mr Enoxsen also quoted it, to stabilise production and employment. If the representative had read all of the Workers' Party's comments on the monetary policy in the vote, he would have noticed that we have also highlighted it there. So trying to make something political about what the Labour Party thinks about monetary policy, I really think it falls on its own unfairness. We insist that the ongoing exercise of monetary policy should not be done by the Storting. It shall be from the Government. We can't live with a monetary policy that we might join. Either we have a monetary policy regime that the majority of the Grand Duchy stands for, or we have to change it immediately. We cannot have a'similar attitude' to what monetary policy in Norway should be like. Here's the Worker's Party crystal clear. We're on the regime we have. We believe that the necessary considerations are reflected in the current guidelines, and that it is thus the role of the Minister of Finance and the Government to follow it up on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e535	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e538	It is interesting to note that the new alliance in Stortinget – the Central Party, SV and the Workers’ Party – discusses the issue of monetary policy. It shows if anything else that this alliance has intended to wait a long time to get into the responsible position. The state budget that we have adopted for 2003 is a good budget for the country. The budget is adapted to the economic situation and is a further step in the work of the Swedish Cooperative Government to change Norway. We get a budget that facilitates new growth and development. We need new businesses and new jobs. Higher education, research and development and lower taxes are therefore given priority. We get a budget to secure the jobs. Parts of the competitive sector wear due to high interest rates and interest rates. That is why we have put forward a tight budget. We get a budget with a good social profile. More than ever, there is a commitment to poverty reduction, both in poor countries and at home. Social schemes are targeted so that those most in need receive more help. Next year, more money than ever will be spent on kindergartens, hospitals and psychiatry. We get a budget that helps change Norway: The public sector is being modernised and streamlined, so that we have more services and better services for money.In order to speed up the return of the unemployed to work, the labour market situation is increasingly underpinned, and a reform of the day-care system is being implemented.The families are being guaranteed freedom of choice through a large-scale effort in kindergartens and through the cash support system. For the second year in a row, taxes are being drastically reduced for industry, and people are getting more of their own income by reducing income taxes, by reducing the level of pay and by reducing the tax on housing. We are well in the process of implementing the Sem declaration. With this budget, we show that it is possible to reduce taxes and keep expenditure growth down while at the same time focusing on important welfare tasks – or to quote the Business of today from 4 October: ‘The three parties to the Cooperative Government, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, demonstrated by the budget of the year that they are capable of prioritizing.’ The budget has been long. Weeks of uncertainty and an unresolved situation ended with a budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party after the Financial Committee gave its opinion. I would like to commend the Progress Party and, in particular, the chairman of the Financial Committee because the party would take responsibility. In this way, the Progress Party has had an impact on important matters and has put its mark on the budget. In negotiations, it is important to seek solutions that both parties can live with, and not to humiliate the other party. We have received a result that the government parties live well with: Taxes and taxes will be further reduced.Married and cohabiting pensioners will receive a higher basic pension. The agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party together represents a structural budget deficit of DKK 30.7 billion. This is the same as in the Government’s 2003 draft national budget. The real underlying growth in government budget expenditure is still estimated at about 1⁄2 pst. – the same level as underpinned by the Government’s draft budget. The left side reactions have been as expected. While it is claimed that the changes are notified, it is claimed that the agreement will have dramatic consequences. This is not a matter of concern. It's simply not serious when the whole difference in a so-called social and an unsocial budget boils down to a few hundred million dollars. What obviously scares many on the left is that our government shows the ability and the will for innovation. When we see trends in new poverty in one of the richest countries in the world, it shows that our welfare systems don't always hit those who need it the most. The legacy after the last Labour Party government was 10,000 people who had been passive social welfare recipients for more than three years. Our goal is to get people back to work faster. Our goal is for people to be able to cope on their own income. Our goal is that no one should live in poverty in Norway. In politics, symbols often create noise. We can bear that if we reach our goal. For the Co-operation Government, it is an objective to keep public expenditure growth lower than the growth in mainland Norway in order to create greater space for the private sector. For 2003, this is particularly important in the interests of the competitive sector. That is why we presented a budget with a lower expenditure growth than in very many years. It is good that the Workers' Party is also concerned with the industry's situation. But what does it do to talk about the industry's situation, when the Workers' Party is at the same time dwindling with tax increases that affect business, and spending increases that will create more pressure in the economy? Those who expected new and exciting initiatives from Stoltenberg & Co. must be disappointed. So far, there are old solutions with a lot of dust from Youngstorget's archives put on the table. The melody is the same: the treasures are going up. After Stoltenberg had increased the taxes by record amounts in his last year of government, the Workers' Party went to the elections with something they called a security. Here, promises were made that should be more important than other promises. The working party guaranteed that the entry point for the top tax should be increased corresponding to the wage increase. That promise has already broken Stoltenberg in opposition. With the Workers' Party's arrangements, a quarter of a million more taxpayers with ordinary income will have to pay top taxes for the next year in line with the Government's proposals. The paradox is that while the Workers’ Party is talking about industry and business, they are squabbling with new tax demands that particularly affect private ownership. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party proposes double taxation of dividends, higher taxes on wealth, and tightening the sharing model. This is a major attack on Norwegian industry, Norwegian investors and Norwegian jobs. Under the guise of taking the rich, the Workers' Party is unleashing tens of thousands of Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises and their owners who spend their money creating jobs. In recent years, we have had quite a debate on the need to strengthen national ownership. The working party is left without a trustworthiness tab on such questions when they thus attack Norwegian private ownership. For example, O. Mustad & Søn AS is a traditional family business. When the depreciation rules were tightened a few years ago, this company received a tax return. This is now corrected again by increasing the depreciation rate. For this company it means approx. One million. kr in lower taxes until next year. But what does it do when the Workers' Party brings in new taxes that will increase the tax burden on this family business by 1.4 million. Do you really want to delete this item? That Stoltenberg gives with one hand, he takes even more with the other. The result of such a policy is that the owners move out and the employees lose their jobs. No one should underestimate the challenges faced by part of the competitive sector. We put forward a government budget to secure jobs and promote new growth and development. The judgment of industry was positive when the budget was presented, while criticism from parts of the opposition only increased in intensity. Since the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party was a fact, the black paint reached a climax. I have to ask: has the Workers' Party passed by the fact that the business community and business organisations are clearly positive – not only to the Government's proposal, but also to the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party? It is gratifying that the competitiveness of the sector is at stake, says the NHO.The budget agreement is positive for the industry, said the Land Association of Process Industries. Now we're looking at new challenges," says the National Association of Technology Enterprises. The construction industry, the travel companies, the service companies and the General Organisation for Commerce and Services say exactly the same thing. We get a budget that will be included and secure jobs, help to further develop the welfare community and give people the most a simpler everyday life. Finally, the majority propose the introduction of tax exemptions for the employer’s coverage of child care expenditure for the children of employees. This proposal has not been examined and is not financed in the budget for next year. Here we have to assume that normal procedures should be followed, and that the government will come back with proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e647	I had expected the representative, Mr. Sanner, that when it came to the first whole-time – I kept saying – the budget that the Right has been involved in nailing together and standing behind, he had put more emphasis on the future views of the budget and what policy we should now see, but there were only a few sentences where he tied it up to the fact that it was important to change Norway. But then he came back to the rule that attack is the best defense. Two thirds of the contribution was a violent attack on the budget of the Labour Party, but little defence of the budget submitted to us. And I have to say, here the government parties have been focused on bringing in the social arrangements in a very unsocial way. For a long time, there has been a consensus – and the Labour Party has stood by – that the aim is to balance living conditions between healthy and sick, between people with work and people without work. With regard to the day-to-day arrangements, we – and the Right-to-Right Representative – feel that if people who have an income of NOK 320,000 are now unemployed, they will lose NOK 20 000 per year. years. And not enough: they also take many other arrangements from the unemployed. Here, the right-wing government has been very clear on the social systems, and has focused on this. And the free medicine system, which we have just introduced on a blue prescription for all the elderly and the disabled, is now being removed for 625,000 people. Here the Government and government parties together with the Advance Party have been targeted. The same applies to the social security system, which is a trifle one, many say, but which is a very social and good tool. Is this the right social targeting of the government parties that we can see in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e658	When I have to spend some of my measured speaking time also talking about the Labour Party budget, it's because the Labour Party won't do it by itself. We have now received one attack after another on the government parties and on the government for two months without the Workers' Party being willing to talk about its own budget. This time, the Workers' Party was expecting to present its alternative after the Financial Committee had made the actual release of the financial position. It shows how anxious the Workers' Party has been to present its own budget. The current change in the day-to-day payment system is an entirely correct reform. The aim of that reform is to get people back to work faster. We're doing two things that are important. One is the reform of the day-to-day pay system, and the other is the strengthening of the labour market seat. We ensure that the individual unemployed receive a stronger and more targeted follow-up. The whole point is to get people back to work faster. It is true, as Tore Nordtun says, that the State budget contains a number of targeted measures. Yes, targeted towards those who need it the most. When we make changes to the gravitational aid, it means that people with relatively good advice do not receive support, while at the same time providing more support to those who have poor advice. In the case of medicine on a blue prescription, this is a similar example, because we make sure that minimum pensioners among pensioners and disabled people get free medicine, while others with better advice don't get it. Rather, we will see to it that we introduce a separate roof 2 scheme into the distribution system, which means that they will have to be covered more at the highest cost. This is good social policy – to ensure that those with the greatest needs receive more help and to ensure that those who need more will also receive more.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e670	The representative Sanner started his speech by saying that this budget is a good budget for the country. And too many groups are also right. It's a good budget. But for other groups, the budget is not good. One of these groups is the company car owners, who have little reason to be happy. The company car owners are still taxed for a private use of 13 000 km, after being increased from 10,000 km with effect from 1 January 2002. Numbers show that the average private use of a company car is 8 500 km. This means that the company car owners are taxed for 4,500 km more than the average. Depending on the price of the company car, this represents an additional premium on income of NOK 25 000 to NOK 30000 more than the average private consumption. My question is: does the representative believe that this is a reasonable tax principle, that one is taxed for a kilometer that is larger than the actual use? Or does the representative believe that taxation for private use should be limited to actual use, perhaps to the average use?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e679	Let me first say that I agree with Gjermund Hageseter that it is a good budget. I am also pleased that we have come up with a solution with the Progress Party which means that the Progress Party has also been given its mark in the budget. I have to admit that I do not consider myself an expert on the company car tax. Although I am well aware that many of my constituents would have liked us to have found room to reduce company car taxes, we have simply not prioritised this. I guess that's also saying that company car owners are not a particularly vulnerable group. When we've chosen different priorities, it's because we think other tax reliefs have been more important. This is the case when you put together a budget, at least if you want to stay within what you think is a sound financial framework. Priority must then be given to different tax reductions. This time we thought it was more important to reduce the top tax. And then it is a reality that with our arrangement, which receives the subsidiary support of the Progress Party, there will be 250,000 fewer paying top taxes. It's people with normal income. With the arrangement of the Workers' Party, nurses and teachers would have to pay top taxes, while with our scheme we have made sure that it gets fewer. We have found it more appropriate to give priority to tax incentives for companies that are investing in research and development, and we have found it more appropriate to give priority to housing tax reductions in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e688	We've been through the first year of the government and its first two state budgets. There have been few surprises. The bourgeois government is pursuing a policy of deregulation, privatisation and blind market faith, which is taking steps towards the Right Society. Keywords to this development are tax havens for those who have the most from before, tax papers that are funded through increased excesses, which not least affect those who have the least in our society. We have constraints in the public sector. The national budget states that private consumption will increase seven times as much as public consumption next year. All right, everyone is about to get away from their school vows from last year's campaign, through, for example. to launch the eye-catching idea that increased quality in school can be achieved without increasing costs. We have the first government that openly admits that its policy leads to a reduction in municipal activity – the activity of municipalities to provide welfare services for the population – and also says that there are increased social differences in our society. What's perhaps more surprising for Right voters is that we've seen little about those of Right's tax promises that were supposed to improve the economic situation for those who don't have as much money as those like them. sits with large dividends on shares. We have hardly received any relief for those who have low incomes. For example, in last year's election campaign, perhaps the most important election vow for young people was that they wanted to increase the free-card limit. It's been stuck at $23,400 throughout the period, and my simple question to Jan Tore Sanner is, why haven't you given priority to this kind of tax relief that would give anything to those who have little in our society? Why has it been decided to give priority to other things than, for example: increasing the free-card limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e699	It's always fascinating when SVs talk about tax relief. It is not with the greatest conviction that such messages are being delivered. We have prioritised tax cuts for most people. That's what's real. What we have proposed is to raise the entry point of the top tax, which helps people with normal income – people who work in our health services, teachers, etc. - shall not be liable for the payment of the tax in question. We've increased the minimum deduction, which means that people with the lowest income get lower taxes. We've also reduced the housing tax, which benefits most people. But at the same time, it is correctly observed that we have also reduced the tax on business, and we have done so for two reasons. One is that it is important today to secure jobs in the competitive part of our business, and at the same time it is important that we facilitate new growth, new development and new jobs. That's what we're going to live on tomorrow, and that's why we've been concerned about improving the business environment. Otherwise, it is not correct that the right ‘fossils away from their school vows’. I can't see where the representative got it from. We have a Minister of Education who has really addressed the biggest problem in the school, namely the lack of quality. We have received a Minister of Education who now targets the reforms to give schools greater educational freedom, while at the same time ensuring that the level of knowledge is raised. In this budget, we have prioritised the implementation of the quality reform in higher education, so that we now have a real boost in higher education in Norway. These are proposals of which all the government parties are very proud, and which are also important in creating new growth and opportunities for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e710	Today, the right has spent a lot of time praising the Progress Party for their willingness to cooperate. It has seemed quite simple for the Right to note that this is a budget we can live well with, and I understand that. First the party got the Christian People's Party in government, and then they got the fight down the Advance Party in the Storting. Now, Sanner from the Right has spent part of his speaking time figuring out other parts of his post, so I'm going to use this line to challenge the Right on some right-hand issues. But first let's think about what such a right-wing budget actually means. This means that private consumption is a priority rather than public welfare. This means that one prioritises families where both parents care for the children and can take out cash support, rather than lonely caregivers, who may have the toughest economic situation. This means that a tax relief priority is given to targeted industrial policies, and there will be a budget for continued centralisation and for poorer local well-being. In the election campaign, the Right was concerned with school policy. Many today feel that the Right is failing in school policy. Many of those who are in primary school today are fighting to try to get a fair offer to the children in primary school. Those who are concerned about the disappearance of equipment and services, those who are concerned about the everyday school life of the children, and not least those who are concerned about the school buildings and indoor climate issues, are now wondering: Where did the school lifts go to the Right? When parents are more or less pressured to circumvent the rules that parents are not to pay for public schooling in the case of voluntary contributions, they may start to cheat. The Minister of Local Affairs has confirmed that it will be tight for the municipalities next year. They're going to spend almost NOK 6 billion of what they could have spent on the care of the elderly and school, to cover a pension bill that the government should take. What does the Right Today have to say to those who feel that the Right is failing in school policy? Are they going to keep saying that this is just about the teachers and not about the resources? Are they going to keep saying that it was just private schools, but not a better public elementary school? What's the Right Message to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e721	I record that the Centre Party has now also begun to use the Workers' Party's rhetoric that it is a Right-Registration and a Right-Budget. I register that Marit Arnstad says that first the Right has fought down one, and then we have fought down the other. I think it's a little disrespectful. We have a cooperative government, consisting of three parties, who cooperate very well. When you try to turn the wedges into cooperation, it probably shows you how far you are from the government. We are committed to working together to make all winners, and we have entered into negotiations in Stortinget to find solutions that both parties can live with, whether it was in the discussions with the Progress Party or whether it was in the talks with the Workers' Party. The attitude of working together to humiliate others does not go far. Otherwise, maybe one of the differences between the Center Party and the Right is that we don't have anything against the fact that private consumption is increasing. We are in order to create more room for the private sector. It is a reality that private consumption increased strongly also when the representative Marit Arnstad put in government, but we have nothing against that happening. So there's a question of school policy. If it was so simple that it was just a question of money, yes, we would already have the world's best school in Norway. We're at the top of the world when it comes to resource access, while we're kind of in the middle of the tree when it comes to content. In the labor party governments we had in the 1990s, reforms from primary and higher education were carried out. None of those reforms aimed at improving the quality of school, and that may be some of the reasons why we stand there. That's why some of the first Minister of Education Kristin Clemet took up a job of turning every stone to see how we can create a higher-quality school with more content. Last year we increased the number of hours at primary school, this year we make sure that higher education gets a real boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e732	For the Labour Party, since the Labour Party's policy was called for, work and well-being are the most important. Siv Jensen said in a reply earlier today that there are dramatic changes when it comes to the employment situation; unemployment is increasing. The answer to the Workers' Party is that those who are unemployed should be sure that they can be and live a life while they are looking for work again. The answer to the right is that now we make it as difficult as possible, so they find enough work again. People want work if there's work. When it comes to well-being, the Right Budget calls its tailor's room, and says that the legacy of the Workers' Party was a very high number of social welfare recipients. For the last five years, the Christian People's Party has been responsible for all the budgets, while the Labour Party has been responsible for six decades. I assume this is a criticism of the partners in the Christian People's Party. The scaffolding chamber shall be directed towards the individual. For the Workers' Party, universal arrangements have always been important, universal arrangements that make everyone, regardless of their background, have a lot of dishes. Now it's back to care. One should expand his life in the social office and tell about misery, if one is to get money for drugs on blue prescription. What the Labour Party introduced last year, with the support of the Stortinget, was that all the elderly and the disabled should not pay for their property on a blue prescription. Now 625 000 are paying for this property itself. It's going back to the welfare community, not making the arrangements universal so that everyone can get the right to them. In addition, one takes from single dependants – it’s petty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e739	I didn't quite understand the question. The transformation that we are now making in the budget is primarily intended, as the representative is in it, to make progress, and that is to ensure that the individual who has extra major challenges will receive more help. What I think we have to admit, everyone who has also been a follower of universal arrangements, is that the welfare systems that we have had have not been able to help the individual person who has extra big problems. It must be a paradox, even for the Workers' Party, that we are experiencing new poverty in one of the richest countries in the world. Then we take some steps to make sure that we are able to help those who have the biggest problems, among other things. through the poverty package presented by the Government, which includes: increase housing support for pensioners with extra poor advice and for families with children with extra poor advice. In the case of the blue prescription scheme, it is not a scheme that has lived for all its time. This was a scheme that was put in place from 1 October this year, so it's a scheme that's been in place for about a month. What we're doing now is making sure that the minimum pensioners among disability pensioners and old-age pensioners are still getting free medicine, and at the same time we're making sure that people with extra large costs of illness are getting more of it covered by a so-called roof 2 scheme. The most important thing we can do is make sure that people are at work. That is why it is so important that we now have a budget adopted to help secure jobs in the competitive sector and a budget that will promote growth and new development in business. The fact that people are at work and that they have a salary that they can live on must, after all, be the most important thing. That is why we are also concerned with reducing taxes on ordinary income.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e748	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e751	From the outside, Norwegian policy must be quite incomprehensible. We are a rich country, the richest of all countries throughout all generations. The state is rich, and the personal consumption is high, but at the same time we have municipalities that have so many shortcomings that it is eye-catching. It is this paradox that for most people is completely incomprehensible and absolutely unnecessary. Norway is a rich country, which chooses to manage its wealth poorly. It's hard to understand why it should be like this, and why it shouldn't be possible to prioritize, so that we can use our wealth to build a society with better welfare for everyone. That's what SV does in our alternative state budget, we prioritise. We have the same balance as the Government, but at the same time we find room to increase the appropriations for the school, to combat poverty, to eliminate excesses, to remove all the unsocial cuts in the Government's proposals, to build more homes, to invest in culture and experiences, to follow up the psychiatry plan, to spend more money on public transport, and not least to increase the appropriations for measures against unemployment. In short, we're betting on the community, on the community we all depend on. That's what's most important, to bet on the community. The main thing is not to make it easier to hire a caravan or to pay a motorcycle or cheaper alcohol. That the government chooses to connect more and more closely to the Advance Party is a choice they have made, and a choice they have to make the consequence of. For the result, we see: a policy, where privatisation is more important than well-being, where fair distribution is not even a political goal, where measures for the poorest are to be paid by the second poorest, where medical and health components are to be increased, but not the taxes for those who are the richest, where municipalities are going on austerity, where eight out of ten municipalities this year are going on with a large deficit, with cuts in the welfare offer as a result, and where private consumption is to increase seven times as much as the consumption of the community, where private schools are more important than public schools, and where tax relief for shipping companies is more important than protecting the benefits of the unemployed. This is part of the choices the Christian People's Party has made, a choice they have to defend, a choice I understand, and records, they don't seem to be that simple. SV has chosen differently. In the Swedish government budget proposal, we find room to spend a total of $8 1⁄2 billion more on welfare in Norwegian municipalities without using a single extra oil crown. That means that we give priority, that means that we spend less money on many things, but that means that we spend more on what we think is the most important, and that most people around Norway think is the most important. That means that we spend less money on the defense, we remove the cash support, we spend less money on private schools, we increase the tax on those who have the most, especially on those who have large incomes from shares, and we turn investment from the oil sector into knowledge and education. Because it means better well-being, from kindergarten to nursing home. In the government's government budget, as a result of the agreement in the opposition earlier in the year, there was NOK 1.7 billion more to kindergartens. It's the largest single bet ever on kindergartens, and it's only the opposition's profit. Despite that, it is too small to achieve the maximum price target and the goal of achieving a development that allows everyone who wants it to be accommodated. We are therefore satisfied that the opposition has negotiated an additional agreement of 287 million. extra for kindergartens, followed by the budget agreement. This will mean that the next year will be almost NOK 2 billion more to kindergartens in Norway, and that means that from August 1st next year the price of a kindergarten will go down to NOK 2 500, and from the new year next year the price will not exceed NOK 2 500 plus the price increase that has been in the period. The following year, we will go down to NOK 1500 for a children's playground, and it is very proud to have been an important part of getting to. In the SV's alternative budget, we promote the large-scale commitment to high-quality education, both in terms of content and in terms of buildings, which we have promised our voters in the election campaign. We want to create the best school in the world. SV spends almost NOK 3 billion more on school for next year. It is quite incomprehensible that this rich country cannot afford to have school buildings that are modern, have modern teaching materials, in short: have a school that lights up. Because that's what we want the school to do. Deepest is nothing more important than upgrading Norwegian education to create learning and curiosity. Because that's what it's going to be of. But some people make it a virtue to pretend that it is possible to get quality without money. Nothing could be more wrong than that. In addition, we promote proposals in the education sector on boxing grants in high school to make school free of charge for everyone who goes there. We want free camp school, and we suggest that we get the price of a full day place in the school leisure system down from NOK 760 per year. months. What is experienced, especially in the case of the school leisure scheme, is a major cut from the Government, which will make the next year’s scheme more expensive and less expensive. In practice, there will only be a storage while the parents are at work. SV does not want this. Government parties, perhaps especially the Right, are struggling with great credibility in school matters. They're trying to imagine the Norwegian people that we're already spending a lot of money at school, and that we can get a better school for less money. They say that the municipalities spend their money on faults, and that only more privatisation, more outsourcing and larger municipalities will be better in all the municipalities in the country. Believe it, whoever wills! The government prioritizes in this budget to spend up to NOK 20 000 more per year. pupils in private schools and not one more krona for the 98,5 pst. by public school students. That means that the few students who attend private schools are the only ones that this government cares for in the education sector, not the 98,5 pst. SV prioritises fair distribution and eradication of poverty. SV's tax arrangements will provide tax relief for them with revenues up to NOK 325000. For those with revenues up to approx. SEK 500000 will be subject to negligible changes, while those with high incomes, in particular from tax-free share gains, will be subject to tax tightening. It's a strange phenomenon that we don't have taxes on dividends. All our neighbouring countries do, except Finland, but they are now considering introducing it. Germany has it, England has it, the United States has it, Japan has it. This means that in Norway we have a strange system, with tax offices for the richest. With regard to the questions we have asked to the Department, it turns out that the 226 richest people in Norway, who have a income of more than 20 million, are living in Norway. kr per year, has a tax-free share gain per year. over 21 million years. kr. So that means that these few people have so much income that they should have been taxed in return for example. eradicating poverty. This is one of the most unreasonable things in our tax system, and one of the things that SV wants to remove. In addition, we wish – and that is a goal – to reduce ordinary income and to tax higher income more, in particular income from capital. And we suggest this because it's fair, and because it frees money to solve other important societal tasks. But unfortunately, this government does not have fair distribution as a target. You have a fight against poverty as a goal, but this is not paid by those who should have paid it, but by those who are the second poorest. In addition, SV is promoting proposals to increase the credit card limit for young people to NOK 35000, we are removing the document fee when purchasing housing for young people under the age of 30, and we are increasing the depreciation period for industry to 20 p.m., as the majority also agree, and we are pleased about that. In addition, we increase the general tax rate to 28.5 pst. But this is combined with significant increases in the minimum deduction, which means that everyone with very common income and up to well above it also gets lower taxes or unchanged taxes. In addition — and this is an important aspect of SV’s tax policy — we propose to follow up many proposals of the Green Tax Commission, which seek to increase taxes on environmentally harmful behaviour and lower taxes on labour, primarily by reducing the employer’s tax. For the state, this is a zero-sum game, but for the environment, and not least for environmentally friendly jobs, this is a significant plus. Only in this way will it be possible to convert Norway into a greener and more sustainable business and only in this way will it be possible to follow up the commitments placed on Norway through the Kyoto Agreement and other international environmental agreements. SV's tax policy is green and red. It's green and fair. This means that the increased revenue generated by the Swedish tax policy is being re-issued to strengthen the welfare state. We think that's the most important thing in the situation we're in. One of the most important things in the future is also to get a lower interest rate level and not least to have the interest rate weakened. This has been part of today's debate, without it being possible to get any movement on it. The government's mantra is that only we get a tight budget, most of it will go well. Of course, this isn't right. What has been done by Stortinget is to disclaim the possibility of having an influence on such an important part of Norwegian society. This is delegated to the Governing Council of the Central Bank by setting interest rates at all times, and the Grand Duchy – or for that matter the Minister of Finance – shall not have one word in it. This regime has not been shown to work. It has proved to be a bad regime for a small economy like Norway's. A small country with a small currency needs to have a monetary policy that is linked to the rest of the economy. When you have a central bank that one-sidedly focuses on inflation and does not choose to focus on production, exchange rates or, for that matter, employment, this is going really bad, and that's exactly what it's done. The industry has received an extra load of more than 10 pst. in recent years, solely due to the conversion of monetary policy. This means that when the profitable, competitive Norwegian industry is now struggling and partly laying down and flagging out, it is only because we have received a strengthening of the krone price that it has not been possible to live with. We want a change that makes it possible to take more account of employment, production and the price of the crown, and not look at inflation unilaterally. There is no need to change the Norwegian Bank’s regulations for this. You can only make sure you give the necessary clarification, so that the Bank of Norway does not become so monotonous, but uses both eyes and sees all the words in the currency code. For the Norwegian economy, this is extremely important. Not least, it is important for the many jobs now being laid down and for a competitive and viable business. I am surprised that it should not be possible to get more interest around this. I am also surprised that the government parties and the Workers' Party unilaterally choose to say that this system works well, when all sensible people see that this system is not working at all. It is therefore the responsibility of the Government when profitable jobs are now laid down and moved out because of the strong crown and the high interest rate. They want a system in which the central bank is the Supreme Judge and not the Minister of Finance, which, in fact, in any democratic system, should have been the top custodian of both monetary policy and financial policy in a country. The forward-looking political landscape is not particularly evocative in the eyes of SV, nor is it seen in the eyes of the community and the welfare state. We, who are committed to caring for the best in Norwegian society and to further developing the welfare state, record that we have a government linked to the Progress Party. We note that this government is continuing to waver with ever closer ties to a party that has a completely different agenda than, for example, one. what I will assume that the Christian People's Party has. This means that we are now getting more privatisation and more outsourcing. We get a society with bigger differences. In short, we get a colder society. This budgetary agreement has a very clear right-wing profile, particularly on those issues that do not affect the economy in the short term. And it's this structural policy that is on the issue of the outsourcing of competition, the right to challenge and the removal of workers' rights, the right and the right of the Progress Party is setting in motion, and that makes them receive subscriptions in the future to pursue a policy in the wrong direction. I am very surprised that the Christian People's Party can live well in this company, because the Christian People's Party really has a separate agenda that is closer to what not least SV is concerned about. We have submitted a budget within the same framework as the Government, with the same balance as the Government, where there is room for prioritising welfare, children and young people and fair distribution. We're very proud of that. We've created a budget that Norwegian business will live not only well with, but very well with, because we're giving relief in the areas where it's necessary to make it easier. SV has created an alternative budget, which should have been adopted, but which unfortunately is not adopted. The challenge for the future will be this: if the Christian People's Party is still going to sit in a government closely tied up against the Advance Party, then we'll get a society that, in many important road choices, will go in the wrong direction. SV will always be there challenging from the other side, challenging on the basis of the value on which we want the Norwegian society to build. And it can be summed up very briefly: we want a warmer and more solidarity society, with less differences between people. I'm taking this up both the suggestions in the vote that we stand with other parties about, and the ones that we're alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e797	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e803	The representative, Djupedal, put great emphasis on the welfare tasks of society in his contribution. I want to focus on a couple of these. In the fall, we have received clear messages from our municipal politicians: the government is proposing to feed the municipalities next year. It will particularly affect the schools and the care of the elderly. Thus, the Government frames the most important welfare tasks in our society. The Labour Party believes that the elderly in our society should live under dignified conditions. We therefore reject the Government Party and the Progress Party. They will simply give too little money to care for and help the elderly. This will lead to clearly poorer quality of care for the elderly. The public school is getting far worse conditions next year with the government party and the Progress Party's arrangement. It will particularly affect children and young people who have a particular need for training help. Such a policy is unsocial. At the same time, the Government Party and the Advance Party propose to give far more money to private schools. The Labour Party rejects this policy. We would like to allow $3 billion more for the municipalities than for what the government has proposed. The Labour Party insists that we have a proper care for the elderly and a defensive common ground. I would like to challenge the representative of Djupedal in these two areas and ask the following questions: How do the Socialist Left Party assess the government party and the Progress Party's proposals when it comes to care and schooling? And secondly, what about my SV on the Progress Party's proposal for the municipality economy for 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e814	I thank you for a very kind reply. I can simply say that I agree with everything the representative Sandal says. We might disagree about the dosage in some fields, but we can come back to that at another time. The direction I see in the Workers' Party's alternative budget is good. It's a direction that I've previously given honor to the Workers' Party. They have recovered much of what has been the defect of the Workers' Party for many years. Now they have come back to where they belong, and that is what the Sandal and the Workers' Party should pay tribute to. It is clear that what the Government does together with the Progress Party is a disaster for those concerned with welfare production in Norway. What that means is that, later on, you give some money, and later you give a boost, while all the country's rapporteurs, all the local politicians, see that this is not the case. Sitting in a normal Norwegian local government today is just a fight about where – in a way – you should prevent cutting, not where to build new welfare. The government has such a mantra: the municipalities use their money incorrectly. If they just make larger municipalities, have more outsourcing, more privatisation, this will go so infinitely better. But everyone knows that this is not right. Everybody knows the situation isn't like that. Even right-wing rapporteurs, when they come to the Stortinget, sound like SVs to the whole crowd, because of course they have a pressure from their voters. They also require good and decent schooling, good and decent offers for the elderly, which we, on the SV side, are concerned about, and which I know that the Workers' Party is also concerned about. This means that in the situations we are in now, the only right thing would be to give municipalities more money to solve the many important challenges facing Norwegian municipalities. It's in the care of the elderly, it's in the school, yes, it's in what it might be of important community services. What we have as a perspective from SV is that many of the most important tasks in our society are best solved in common. It means that we pay taxes into a society and get things back in the form of welfare production: kindergartens, schools, care for the elderly and what it should be. I am pleased by the SV and the Workers' Party in many respects can agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e827	My question to the representative Djupedal is also about the situation in the municipal sector. SV proposes a strong increase in the use of money in municipalities. Of course, it is positive to want to help municipalities in a difficult economic situation, and the desire to improve the framework in the welfare state is shared enough by most parties on the Stortinget. However, there is in fact a reason why the Government is cautious about the growth of public expenditure, while at the same time giving significant tax cuts to industry. Norway already has a very high level of interest rates, a record dollar rate and a very high level of wage and cost. These are, of course, framework conditions leading to the relocation and closure of thousands of jobs in traditional industries, and this is precisely affecting district municipalities. For my part, I know the issues fairly well since I grew up in the municipality of Kvam in Hardanger. The municipality has two internationally competing corner stone companies, namely the shipyard Fjellstrand and the melting plant Bjälvfossen. There are hundreds of employees working here, and companies are extremely exposed to exchange rates, pay levels and interest rates. A closure would be a disaster both for those who work there, and for the municipality, which is out in the district. The SV's budget will undoubtedly lead to higher interest rates, stronger exchange rates and greater pressure on wages and salaries. SV has a real underlying growth in public expenditure of 2 pst., and there is a growth that is four times higher than that proposed by the Government. This obviously leads to pressure in the economy. In addition, SV suggest DKK 7 billion in increased taxes and taxes on business. My question to the representative of Djupedal is: is SV aware of the consequences of such a financial and tax policy, and what will it mean for employment and housing in District Norway? Is this a deliberate strategy that SV has chosen, for which the party takes full responsibility, or is this a backside of the medal that Djupedal will not accept? I really hope that the representative Djupedal does not live up to that perception of fixed tricks in monetary policy, but can respond to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e840	Where the representative Hansen takes his numbers from, may be up to him. But it's true that we're increasing the total tax revenue to the state in this budget by approximately. NOK 3.6 billion. We're going to spend this money on welfare. But business overall comes out with a plus, because we want to take a lot of different measures to create conversion into Norwegian business. That means that the main grips we do make us less oil dependent. That means that we want to free up capital that is now going to the oil sector, to invest it in viable green jobs in the mainland economy, because Norway is very exposed by having so much of its industry linked to one sector, and thus linked to fluctuations in the dollar or oil price. Norwegian business had lived very well with SV's budget, because we are addressing what is the future of Norwegian business, namely being competitive despite having a level of costs that, of course, cannot compete with Asian countries or any other low-cost country. We know that very well. And Norwegian companies that are already skilled are skilled because they have more competence, more knowledge of the product, which makes it competitive despite the fact that pay levels in Norway are higher than in comparable countries. That means that we have to facilitate that from the Biggest side. But Norwegian competitiveness is more than just what Stortinget does for each and every business. Competitiveness, e.g. in district municipalities with large corner stone holdings, to have a well-functioning welfare system. It's having a public school that's good, it's having universities and colleges that's good, it's having a health care that's good, and it's having kindergartens for their employees. Nobody wants to move to a corner stone company if there is no kindergarten space so that they can have the kids in kindergarten, or there is no place in the hospital or at school. This is where the right is going wild, because they want to trample the municipalities while they say that we will get better in Norway! Go out and talk to business managers, go out and talk to employees, go out and talk to people in the municipalities and say that only the tax policy of the Right is well implemented, we get a lot better in this municipality. There is not one voter who believes this, nor one executive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e851	Now it is nothing new that SV will increase taxes and taxes. Mr Djupedal was well-informed in his statement, and the comments from the Financial Committee made a good impression on him. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 1 on page 14, mentions tobacco taxes and alcohol taxes, and the following are stated: ‘In addition to providing Community income, they contribute to reducing the consumption of tobacco and alcohol and thus lower expenditure on health and the social sector. Such fees provide a win-win situation and should be used to the maximum’. There is now a consensus that a high level of alcohol consumption is harmful. However, research also shows that moderate alcohol consumption is not harmful, but on the contrary both improves health and reduces life expectancy compared to those who are totally excluded. The fact that this will result in both health and social security costs is, however, a point I would like to make. What I want, on the other hand, is an elucidating answer to what SV actually means with the maximum exploitation of this so-called win-win situation. Today, for example, costs. One pint, approx. 50 kroner, and then my question is, how much will he cost when SV is done with this win-win-situation maybe five years in time? Is he going to cost me $60, $70 or $100?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e863	That was when a strange example was drawn out! If you go out and buy a pint of 50 kroner, the total fees that the government charges on it are between 6 and 7 kroner. That was the worst example you could draw, because the rest of this money goes to the rest of the restaurants, or to what might be of wages and expenses for them. There is no part of Norwegian alcohol sales where there is more profit than just selling a pint at a restaurant. But leave it here, I have understood the point of the representative Hagesetter: He believes that SV should have accepted lower taxes on alcohol and lower taxes on tobacco. The answer to that is no! We're going to cancel out the probabilities in our budget. We have a social profile of our tax policy, which means that those with low incomes actually get more with the SV's budget. That means we're using this money that the state is taking in, in a socially fair way. So we're going to be 0. the whole of the blueprint, for which the Progress Party is now in favour, which increases the proportion of 650,000 pensioners – with the vote of the Progress Party, as I said. All these pensioners are now getting more costs related to completely elementary drugs, which is now supported by the Progress Party. We have not said to them that they should receive lower taxes on alcohol or tobacco with the SV budget, but we have said that we should remove the excess. And that's what we really stand up to and do. At the same time, of course, we also see that there is a roof, a limit on how high tobacco and alcohol taxes may be. And we haven't suggested raising them! We have not proposed to increase them! We've followed exactly what the government has presented here. We've been doing that for years. But to think about how to do this, it's about a priority. The promotion party therefore prioritises lower alcohol levies and lower tobacco taxes. Them about it! It doesn't add SV to it. We prioritise lower taxes for those with low incomes, that you can live on your own work. We give priority to reducing the excesses in health care and medicine. We're giving priority to getting our own pay down at school, and we're giving priority to getting our own pay down at kindergartens. It's SV's choice, and it's a choice we're very upright on. Then it's better for me to be able to stand a little shut for this from Storting's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e872	It's nice to hear that Øystein Djupedal in his post says that he wants a warmer society. It is a good motto, which the Christian People's Party has had for many years, as a family and care party. It is right that in many cases Christian People's Party and SV have common goals. But it is difficult when Øystein Djupedal says very quickly and in half a sentence that now they will remove the cash support. Cash support, which has proved to be socialequalisation, cash support, which is very often provided to a family of children of income – many of them with medium or low incomes – can one just take away, because the families of young children receiving cash support are not interesting for SV. What's interesting for SV is the families who choose the A4 solutions with kindergarten, and only they should be supported, a support we'd like to agree with, but it becomes one-sided when it's only the families of children who choose kindergartens, who need to get more public intervention. Cheaper kindergartens and, in addition, great tax relief for those with the highest incomes, SV believes it is the right way to go. The parties behind the nursery arrangement are in favour of a change in the law that makes kindergarten a very favourable place, both for employees and for employers. Today's business had Friday bills on how much tax relief this would bring to the individual, and these calculations showed very clearly that with the largest incomes, they would get the biggest tax credits, a scheme that is more favorable the more you earn. Is this the way SV will go? In his contribution, Øystein Djupedal said that they were in favour of increased taxes for those with high incomes, but in the same fiscal year, he is thus giving great tax relief in relation to kindergartens. Is that... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e885	It should not surprise any of the SV is against the cash support. We've been since day one. We believe that it is right to bet on kindergartens and a form of care that benefits the children. We are proud that, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, SV has negotiated an agreement that will lead to nearly NOK 2 billion more for the kindergarten sector in Norway next year. From 1 August next year we get an average price of NOK 2 500 and from 1 January 2004 – i.e. in a year’s time – we get a maximum price of NOK 2 500. The following year, we get a maximum price of NOK 1500 plus the price increase that must have been in the period. In addition, we get a massive expansion of kindergartens, so that many people who today don't have the opportunity to have a nursery place can get it. The biggest problem today is the lack of kindergarten places for children under the age of 3. After the cash support came, practically no nursery facilities have been built for the smallest children. It makes very many, mainly mothers, who would have wanted to be out of work, who would have wanted education, who would have wanted to participate in social life, not have the opportunity. Of course, when the state has a cash support scheme, you choose to accept it. Very many of these would have chosen differently if they had had freedom of choice, but the reality is that the cash support has not created freedom of choice. It's created the opposite, because you don't have a choice in getting the children into kindergartens if you want to. The great conciliation of the nursery friends about kindergartens gives a real freedom of choice, and I am very proud of that. So to the tax piece of the deal. It is no secret that this has been the wish of the Progress Party in these negotiations. They have had a positive impact on it, and in return, we have had a positive impact on what has been important to us, namely expansion and lower prices. At the same time, you should also remember that today's business bill is wrong, because when we get a maximum price of NOK 1500, the effect of the tax deduction is completely marginal. Then we get a total cost of kindergartens for each and every family that is much lower. In addition, you do not want the same costs in the tax system as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e892	SV and the Zenterpartie are united in the desire to strengthen the local economy. That's good. But we need more parties with us to give the municipalities the promise they should have, and in order for the municipalities to be able to provide people with the services within school, health and care they deserve. In addition to the strengthened local economy, the Senterpartie believes that there is a need for further action to provide the municipalities with room for action to do the job they want for their citizens. We believe that it is necessary for municipalities to be given the right to negotiate with the State, so that municipalities can say no to new reforms if the majority of them do not want to participate in and fully fund them. Only in this way can we ensure consistency between tasks and money available to municipalities. We also believe that local tax laws must be freed from local tax laws, so that municipalities are given the freedom to make real local choices. In addition to this, there is a need for more free resources for municipalities, and municipalities must be exempted from unnecessary bureaucracy. My question to the representative Djupedal is whether SV supports the proposal of the Centre Party to strengthen local democracy, or whether SV will put itself on a piece price and minimum standard line that deprives local politicians of power and space for action. The basis for the question is, among other things, the pure priced financing provided by SV together with the Progress Party in the original proposal for pediatric financing and the requirement for minimum standards in other contexts. Does SV have so little confidence in local democracy that the party believes that the price and minimum standards are the way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e901	Let me just clear up a manifest misunderstanding. The funding model for kindergartens on which the Centre Party is involved is identical to the funding model set out in SV and the first proposal of the Advance Party. That means there's no change in this at all. That funding model we've come up with, and that's a good funding model. It gives municipalities a high degree of influence in the nursery sector. They have influence in all areas, but the state is taking the bill for this, and I think all the country's grandchildren are happy about it, because that is how we now realize the big kindergarten reform. Unfortunately, what we've seen over the last few years is that once the Storting has given a lot of money to kindergartens, these have gone into many other sewers in the community economy than to kindergartens because of municipal poverty. That's why this great promise has been necessary, and we're happy that the Center Party has been involved. But the funding model is, as I said, identical to the original proposal. We want greater freedom for the municipalities. Of course we do. We want it to be attractive to be a local politician. We want it to be attractive to be part of and shape the welfare society in which the welfare society works, that is, in the municipalities. However, we do not agree that municipalities should have the option of choosing not to participate in a major state reform, nor that a municipality should have the right to veto in relation to reform work that big-scale politicians and governments believe is necessary. Nor do we agree that this should be a free tax law. We feel quite confident that a free tax law will lead to a corresponding cut in the framework grant, and in that way, the win will go up in the spin. On the other hand, we want to strengthen the municipal economy by approx. $8.5 billion, which is far more than the Senter Party wants, and I'm glad the Center Party is on that track too. We give about half of this in free, unbound funds to the municipalities, so that the municipalities can choose where the shoe is printed. We need to focus on school, health, care for the elderly, what is the problem in each municipality. Then we give through a number of other measures approx. the same amount of the municipalities. This would have created welfare municipalities, and it is SV proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e908	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e912	Since early this year, there has been a concerted demand from industry and industry – both employers and employees – that the government budget for the next year should be tight so that it could dampen the pressure on the crown and on the interest rate, because the high interest rate and the strong dollar now put companies at high cost so that jobs, especially in the export right industries, are at risk. A tight budget is not an end in itself, but it is a hub to secure jobs, to ensure important welfare arrangements and to provide good living conditions both for families and for individuals. With this as a backstop, the Co-operation Government presented a tight outline in the draft budget for next year. The Government Party has followed this up in Stortinget, and with the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party that is in place, the Stortinget can today deal with a draft budget which has a good device and is defensively tight. In connection with this, I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party, who on the upstream side showed responsibility and contributed to the peace and plural solution for the state budget for next year. The feedback from the business community is good. Using, inter alia: tax measures for industry and significant improvements in the research and development mechanisms will be a good tool for securing existing jobs and for creating new ones. In parallel with a reduction in the pressure on interest rates, this also increases the potential for positive economic consequences for municipalities, households and individuals. In the Christian People's Party, we attach great importance to family and care. Economic policies cannot be detached from this. A good economic policy that both secures and creates jobs provides secure revenues that benefit individuals, families, communities and large communities. By means of a well-functioning economy, we can develop and offer good family policies such as: cash support and nursery facilities. With a huge effort on kindergartens and with increases in cash support, this is a budget that helps to increase the freedom of choice for young children’s parents. Through a sensible economic policy, we can also create and maintain other good welfare arrangements for different age groups and for other groups. In this sense, a tight budget can also be a good social budget. Last but not least, the draft budget is a good example. Furthermore, I would like to stress that failure in strict frameworks has been found to accommodate several good measures that have been targeted, among other things. the weakest in society, against the environment and against the family. I note in summary that the increase in aid is over 850 million. and that there is room for measures to combat poverty and poverty, with about a quarter of the total. 400 million. kr. We get a roof II for those with high health costs, and a new 670 million is added. kr in the psychiatry plan. The draft budget also shows an active commitment to public transport, not least in major cities. I am also pleased that, through the budget agreement with the Progress Party, we have an extra DKK 1 billion for the municipalities, that the existing level of the outbound allowance is secure, and that a stepping-up plan for the basic pension for retired couples falls into place. One of the things that we in the Christian People's Party have been looking for for for many years is the tax exemption for gifts to voluntary teams and organizations. By the sum for which tax deductions may be required, the sum is now raised to NOK 6000 per year. years, this scheme begins to become interesting. In this way, the scheme can contribute to a real strengthening of the economic basis of these organisations, which carry out an invaluable and irreplaceable social effort. Represented by a colorful flora of different layers and organisations, this work is widely spread, from what is done on the local level, to the effort of world-wide. This great effort is now being given a hand through the extended tax exemption scheme for gifts. This budget, which we are now adopting, is a good way to take care of existing jobs and to create new ones, to ensure the provision of well-being and to provide a safe everyday life for families and individuals, with increased freedom of choice, not least for young children’s parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e940	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e943	It is interesting to record how the Christian People's Party and the representative Sørfonn no praises the budget agreement. In the Official Journal of Bergen, Sørfonn says that they stand 100 pst. behind the budgetary agreements entered into. As usual, it means that this is good Christian People's Party policy, one would believe. Sjørfynn was in the business world. Then I want to challenge him on the following: Companies are being laid down. The workspaces will be moved out, and the unemployed path will be moved. It surrounds small and large communities around the whole country where the industry is located. After all, we need a policy that meets this, and then a tight fiscal policy is needed to bring down the interest rate and the exchange rate just enough, which was also the Sjöfonn inside. But that's not enough. We also need targeted tools to develop existing nutrients and create new ones. Therefore, the Labour Party will strengthen regional and municipal tools and SND. The government has changed this year in opposite directions. And if that wasn't enough, in the budget agreements, like the Sørfonn praises, an additional 100 million is cut. kr for regional development, etc. to get money to reduce the alcohol charge by close to 11 pst.Oh, my God! Yes, with the Progress Party as partners, the Bondevik government has now, through two budgets, cut the alcohol charges by close to 26 p.p., while one sees that regional development is happening at a time when there is a huge need for this to make alcohol cheaper. Even so, the Christian People's Party and the Sørfonn celebrate this agreement. Is it so that this is what is now the new Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e950	First of all, I just have to confirm that we're doing 100 pst. behind the draft budget. There's no doubt about it at all. When it comes to employment, there has been a unanimous demand from industry that the budget be tight. Both from the territory I'm from, and beyond, in our country, it's obvious that the high dollar rate has been a significant problem for business. So the first and only message I've received from business from the early days of our lives is: Get a tight budget! Therefore, there was also such a good signal from the business community that the government is taking it seriously. In fact, I could record that the consequences in my area were that companies that had flagging plans, they put them on the shelf, precisely because they had confidence in what the Government is now putting into its budget. When it comes to an interesting connection between alcohol taxes and district development, I do manage to follow the reasoning of the representative Rudihagen, but it's a bit limping. It cut like it's talking about a total of 100 million. kr, is divided into two items. It's 50 of those that primarily focus on regional development. As far as I'm concerned, it's about $12 billion. He was strengthened by $50 million. kr in price increase and 50 million. kr in real terms this year. The fact that one will have a small reduction is unlikely to have the major consequences, and especially not because the budget agreement also means a strengthening of the municipal economy of DKK 1 billion. If we look at the increase in the municipal economy in total in this budget, it's $3.6 billion, and for free income $1.3 billion, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e959	I assume that the Christian People's Party, as a so-called responsible party, also believes that the party should take responsibility for the draft budget presented by the Government. The fact that the budget has been improved on a number of points after what the government parties themselves have called hard negotiations with the Progress Party is probably hardly the government parties that should take credit for. Hard negotiations just mean that the Progress Party has pressed pressure, while the government parties have held back as much as they can. One of the things that surprised me most about the government's budget proposal was that all the measures to keep Norwegian seafarers had been removed. With net pay arrangements in our neighbouring countries, Norwegian seafarers disappear, and municipalities along the coast are worried. Maritime workplaces are essentially district jobs, jobs that, with the government budget, would be outsourced to Sweden and Denmark. Does this Christian People's Party worry, and if it does, why does it have to be tough negotiations to do something about it – quite far from enough, but still?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e966	It is true, as the representative Monsen here says, that we have a challenge when it comes to the jobs we have in the maritime sector. The current budget includes both the reimbursement scheme and the net pay scheme for ferry companies, plus a reduction in the réar tax system where the tonnage tax is reduced by 30 pst. There are also a few other measures in place. In budgetary negotiations it is a matter of taking and giving, but it is also a matter for all parties to be in a position to do so. There can be no doubt that from the side of the government party, even from the side of the Christian People's Party, the result in this area is a result that we can well support, and that we think is an instrument in the right direction. As far as I understand the question from the representative, it was mainly about why this was not initially inserted. The answer is that when a budget is submitted that is tight and that is important, there will be some areas where there will be no room in the budget, and that was the case for these schemes. But a minority government is very aware that in order to get a budget through, they must also have a negotiator with them, get their mark on the budget. What has happened in this case is that one has found solutions that the negotiating parties can stand behind – and hopefully the result will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e973	The representatives of the Christian People's Party here in the house have been busy in the fall, busy defending the budget, the increase in the payments, cut off the unemployed and disabled, cut off the disabled, tax cuts for groups with the highest costs of illness, cut off the distance grant and not least a dramatic poor community economy. On the outside of this house, on the other hand, the members of the Christian People's Party have cried out for frustration and despair over the same points. Is it not a paradox for the representative of Sørfonn that it is the Progress Party, the party that otherwise cuts brutally in the municipal transfers, which now had to force the Government to increase the transfers to the municipalities, and that it was the Progress Party that also forced the Government to remove some of the unsocial cuts and force the Government to continue the removal bid? Is it not a paradox for the representative of Sørfonn to defend this budget which, despite a few good improvements, still has a biased profile, increased own-payments and so bad community economy that even the bishops no shout caution against cuttlefish, to stand here defending cheaper spirits, cheaper caravans and cheaper motorcycles?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e978	I have not known it as particularly burdensome to defend Corke Regening's proposal or the budget agreement, precisely because we can support this. In a tight arrangement, it is also important to target, say no to something, say that something has to wait, and highlight other things. That's actually what's priority. We record that some of the other parties here in the hall are giving a different priority, trying to say yes to everything, but we don't think that's a responsible policy. Then I get the question of how to cooperate with the Progress Party, that one should be roped ashore by the Progress Party, is particularly stressful. If you look at the agreement that is in the lead, he has a device and a profile that the Christian People's Party can stand behind. We have a record budget for aid. We have increased the aid rate to 0.93 of GNI. We have an anti-aliasing profile. If you look at what's going on on the tax side, it's those with low wages that are highlighted by the minimum deduction, when you take the percentage of the minimum deduction. One has got a very good order for those with health and medicine expenses, with a blue prescription system that includes minimum pensioners, with a self-esteem that has not increased compared to the existing one, and with a roof 2 scheme that takes them with them with large expenses that were said before that one could not catch. The representative was also a little bit about the alcohol tax. I don't have a problem admitting 100 million. In the case of alcohol levies, the Christian People's Party is not its first choice in any way. But this is an agreement where there are many good elements in it, and this is some of the price we have paid to be part of a scheme that is overall very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e989	Where has it become of the Christian People's Party's soul? In the central government was the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, among others. together on the following: a more offensive district policy, including special measures for competitive business, which was needed to strengthen the local economy to ensure a good public school and a more dignified service mix through different measures and raised from below, combined with a more equitable tax system The centre party maintained this profile in our 2003 arrangement. The Christian People's Party has made a different choice. A pre-right-dominated budget has, through the agreement with the Progress Party, further reinforced the distance to the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. Jan Tore Sanner has praised Carl I. Hagen because in his demands he did not touch his points of pain at the government party. In this case, that's going to be 100 million. kr in reduced brandy fee is not a pain point for the Christian People's Party, a rather 100 million. In addition, there is no lack of ability to fill local authorities, nor the need for unemployed and sick people to pay for the poverty package. The Christian People's Party seems to be very happy with tax bills for those who are paying more than NOK 320,000, even though they know who is going through this. They give green light to the newspaper Our country calls '10 steps towards a more private society'. It also means green light for Kristin Clement's many proposals for undermining the common ball – in sharp contrast to Jon Lilletun's inexorable commitment to a good public school, with life-vision balls as a complement. According to Sanner, the budget that is approved tonight has not been touched by the pain of the Christian People's Party by Carl I. Hagen. I ask again, where has it been of the Christian People's Party's soul?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1012	Taking care of the soul is probably important both for the party and for individuals. But when it comes to this budget, I didn't quite recognize myself in the misery description, because we have actually added an extra billion into the budget agreement to the municipalities, so that the municipalities have a total of 3.6 billion kroner, and free income of 1.3. The budget agreement added an additional 150 million. NOK 30 million for road-goals. NOK for reimbursement of the diesel charge for express buses, etc. So I thought there was a little bit of a bomb on the target. I also did a little to follow the reasoning when it was said that ‘the unemployed and the sick have to pay for the poverty package’. I tried in a previous reply to explain just how one has got to the three elements when it comes to expenditure on medicine, etc. – i.e. a blue prescription scheme that provides free medicine to the minimum pensioners, a self-employed person who has not increased, and a roof 2 scheme that includes the large costs of other health services that have not been covered in the past. So the profile here is in our opinion -- and I believe the perception of many more than us -- very good. All in all: the draft budget as it is led has a good profile that the Christian People's Party can well stand in for, without having to like, I believe, any kind of damage to the soul saying of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1022	Jumping from bed to bed is not a simple exercise. And when it comes to the Christian People's Party, it doesn't seem very credible. What we're witnessing now is that Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa is a bit contaminated because they've left her. And Siv Jensen is a little repulsive to the same Christian People's Party when they come to her. So it's not that easy to be a Christian People's Party. We've seen that in the fall, we've screwed this from the outside, that they don't have it that easy. We have experienced, most of us, that the Christian People's Party has been busy with the weakest – they should have, they always have been. I don't want to blackmail everything that has to do with the budget, because I don't have a reason for that. But when they cut off the unemployed, those who have it hard, when they cut off the plaintiffs, when they introduce peculiarities to the blue recipe for the disabled and for pensioners, and when they take the tomb help, people start to react – of course – because it is so unusual that it is the Christian People's Party that does this. Instead, one thing is to say yes to more tax relief for the wealthiest, and by the nose, they say yes to easy alcohol charges. It is clear that one has chosen a line, and I believe that the representative Sørfonn must stand upright and defend this budget more than 100 pst. One line has been selected where there will be a base for the Storing with support from the Progress Party. Then one has to find himself in all those who are concerned that the Christian People's Party is now leaving the weakest and going over to say, "No, what's important to us now is that we get to sit in government." Even if we cut among others. In resources for the districts and for those who are weak, it is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1029	I just need to know that jumping from bed to bed I don't have that much experience in it. In earlier times I have jumped into bed, but I have the impression that what we're facing now is an attempt to make us jump into a new bed. Otherwise, it is nice to hear that the representative of Frøiland has also registered that the Christian People's Party has been busy with the weakest, and I can delight her that we are so absolutely still. If you look a little bit sober in this budget, put the rhetoric aside, you'll also see that this has a clear profile directed at the weakest in society, whether it is aid, which has increased by over 850 million. kr, or it relates to the poverty package, drug pack, that we have domestically. We can also look at the tax arrangements. Not only is the minimum deduction raised, but the percentage has been raised, and it hits them with the low income, which does not come to the ceiling when it comes to the minimum deduction. To take other groupings: in the case of the right to transitional allowances for single dependants in education, the amount increased by 35 million. kr, so factually there is no reason to claim that this budget is an estimate of the weak, rather the opposite. When it comes to the unemployed, we have a challenge – I have no doubt about it. The best thing we can do there is to take care of existing jobs and create new ones. There we also believe that the business profile, both a tight budget and the arrangements for corporate tax that this budget has, is helping to strengthen the ability to take care of and create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1041	The president was for a moment afraid that this would develop into a debate about which bed was best to lie in, but we did not. The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1046	The additional position says that four parties have agreed that Bondevik will hold the new year this year and as long as the Progress Party has a major and increasing influence over policy. There must be a script with the pen held – hopefully without an approval round among the County Leaders of the Progress Party. The setting does not contain a single sentence on the common policy. The Progress Party promises to vote in favour of a wide range of proposals promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left on reduced brandy fees, reduced appropriations for districts, for environmental measures and for the same child care. Together with a long list of measures for faster privatisation, this is similar to those of the Progress Party and the Right alone. The discussion following the conciliation between the conciliators has revealed considerable disagreement. The Party of Advancement gives the Christian People's Party responsibility for evil contractions, but does not want to know that the Christian People's Party takes credit for a single improvement. Carl I. Hagen has given lectures that he has given up getting a Christian People's Party on future teams together with the Right. "Buddsjett negotiations two years in a row have shown that this is going to be impossible," he said, according to NTB, to the Shipping Club. This must well be called government on notice. I have also looked at the original financial position after describing the common policies of the budgetary partners. I found only two joint comments of importance, one on increased privatisation and one on lower housing taxes. In the financial position, there are also not many common comments between the government parties and other parties in the opposition. Quite rightly, the government's draft budget for a lot of cooperation was not invited, but the lack of joint comments in areas where there is a great deal of consensus is striking. It must be because the parties behind the Government disagree on who they will cooperate with, and on what. The cooperation parties invite to the opposition, not to cooperate. That's my conclusion. On the other hand, the position shows convergence in political views between the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. These three batches constitute the largest fraction of the main observations. In particular, there is a description of common resistance to the social development that results from allowing such influence on the Right and the Advance Party. Common budgetary procedures are described which would provide more for school and care for the elderly, improvements for business including transport, the creation of unsocial changes in ownership, daily allowances and taxes. All three will reintroduce taxes on dividends and tax them more in order to preserve the safety net for the unemployed, disabled and people with poor advice. In my view, these notes are an important contribution to closer and extended cooperation. Budgetary work has shown that the Government stands for a completely different social development than the central government would have. It is also directed in a different direction from what the voters were promised in the election campaign. Lower taxes to those with good advice have become one overall objective. There is an increase in private consumption of NOK 26 billion, while public consumption can increase by only NOK 1.6 billion. It is a scheme for increasing municipal poverty and poorer schooling and care for the elderly. It is a scheme for the resource forces to ask for user-paid offers and for municipalities to ask for aggregation. The motto of the Central Party's alternative budget is «Increased value creation for better well-being throughout the country». We believe in all those who say that competitive business has major problems, and we spend a total of NOK 3.7 billion extra to contribute to more jobs instead of more unemployed people. We want Norway's Bank to take employment and cut interest now. We want: maintain the reimbursement scheme and the net pay system for seafarers’ rejection of the Government’s proposal to six-fold the employer’s pay obligation in the case of leave increases the depreciation rate for machinery and equips up to 20 p.s. a traffic billion to remove bottlenecks and provide job-free workers with all the inheritance taxes on food SND the same appropriations as before Bondevik II allocated half a billion DKK for broadband development throughout the country to start new registration of the company in Brønnøysund free of charge new development programmes for furniture, offshore, marine sector and agriculture with a total of 225 million. to maintain the agreed effort on forest culture and on Norway as a destination. The central party sees the crisis in the municipal sector and grants SEK 5.5 billion more than the government for school and care for the elderly. We want those chosen for the harvest to be able to offer the services that Storting has decided. If not, there will be a crisis for the local People's Government as well. We believe in the rapporteurs of the Romesdal Regional Council, who wrote: ‘Most municipalities in the Romesdal Regional Council are forced to reduce the provision of services in several areas’. The centre party will not wait until closer elections and after schools have ceased to grant more money. We are sure that a good enough community economy is good prevention, including: by giving young people a good start. The centre party will contribute to a fairer distribution, primarily by more emphasis being placed on the principle of taxation according to its capacity. We raise the peak tax entry point less than the government. All our tax credits are given to them with wages less than DKr 180 000, a total of DKr 1.9 billion – among others. DKr 1000 in tax deductions to the lone and top minimum deductions to more than before. The credit card limit is raised to NOK 40 000, and we want revenues of less than DKK 30 000 from small jobs in the voluntary sector to be tax-free. We want tax-free gifts to non-governmental organisations to be given also for local purposes and to more organisations. The profits of NOK 1250 million of reintroducing the dividend tax go in full to remove the social distortions in prostheses and social security benefits proposed by the Government. The centre part will also raise the fishermen's and seafarers' deduction from 70 000 to 100 000 kroner. The centre lot spends DKK 1 billion on faster treatment and prevention in the health sector. We grant more to healthcare companies in order to avoid hospitalisation or poorer supply. And that is – to inform the Progress Party – the same thing that we have done in previous years. We allocate more to the psychiatry and to the training institutions, and 100 million. extra to the social security offices for the accelerated treatment of the sick. Our health billion is financed by maintaining the ‘pre-Bondevik II level’ of alcohol taxes and by increasing the fees on smoking tobacco, sugary drinks and imported animal food. This will also help to reduce the rapidly growing loss of society due to lifestyle diseases. We'll give you $15 million. kr to a campaign for young people not to start smoking. The Central Party will grant 410 million. kr more than the Government of scholarships and travel batteries for students, and we will also keep the childcare supplement and today's grant to the SFO. The party's additional consumption of oil money in relation to the government's is NOK 3.8 billion. 1.5 of these go to infrastructure investments, i.e.: road, rail and broadband. SEK 2.1 billion to cover additional pension costs in municipalities is covered outside the framework – just as it was when Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance. Our proposal for a more flexible rules of action for the use of oil money means that more money can be spent when this reduces the pressure on the economy by exploiting available capacity, removing costly bottlenecks and reducing public expenditure in the long term. We believe that it is expensive and harmful to hide bills, to postpone completely necessary maintenance, or not to remove cows on the roads and at the hospitals. Most parties are curious to use more than what is allowed. The centre party has waived the budgetary lines that both the Workers' Party and the Government's Parties are using to use oil money without granting them. The money laundering via equity from Posten and NSB is NOK 2.2 billion. Appropriations for non-residents’ scholarships, health enterprises and the local government sector postponed for further elections will probably amount to more than DKK 4 billion. The centre party has already granted DKK 7 billion for these purposes. The yard aid shall be reintroduced without a krone in the budget. While the Government in its reference to monetary policy refers only to the first part of the purpose of the interest rate instruction, it has now been demonstrated by everyone in the Committee, except the Progress Party, that some of its objectives are ‘to contribute to stabilising the development of production and employment’. And it was just going to be missing, when so much of the business is warning about big problems because of high dollar rates and interest rates. But to take part in a decision on a clarification of the interest rate instruction, as the Central Party has proposed, would have become too strong. Also, based on a one-sided focus on inflation, interest rates must now be able to be reduced. The twelve-month growth rate in the consumer price index has been below 2 pst. for more than a year. We are now lower than the Euro area, which is in line with an inflation target of 0.5 pst. lower than with us. The national budget shall comprise the following: ‘The price of imported consumer goods is currently much weaker than the krona increase in recent years’. But you just want to wait for prices to go down again. In a newspaper chronicle, a reporter – one of the many chief economists – wrote the following: ‘Should, for example, the car importers [...] have benefited customers from the full crowning process, this would in itself lead to a fall in the consumer price index of a total of 1 percentage point.’ Then it has to be possible to do something, for example. use the same apparatus that follows the prices of Norwegian-produced food. There is reason to believe that market players are prospering with their billion-dollar gains. But the government is on the side of business and Norwegian customers, right? Then Foss must be able to tell Gedrem what the Great and the people will. Finally, I will be able to put forward the proposals that the Central Party has alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1137	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1142	The Labour Party and the Centre agree very much on the budget for next year. But the non-agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre is that it is possible to use more oil money without any negative effect, because the interest rate is still high and the price of the crown is not falling, which will give even more unemployed people by laying down jobs or flagging out companies. The working party therefore believes that it is wrong to use more oil money. The Labour Party and the Center Party agree that the municipalities need more money than the government parties and the Progress Party are adopting today. The Labour Party will give NOK 3 billion more to the municipalities, the Center Party even more. We also agree that an escalation plan is needed to enable municipalities to solve their problems. They can't do that today. The Labour Party believes that the school offer to our children should not be reduced. We believe that it should not be cut off on offers to the elderly. The day-care centre shall continue to be an offer for the elderly. We believe that the offer of home help should be there. The elderly will get laid anytime they want, and shower anytime they want. All this and more to the Government and the Advance Party believe that the municipalities should be able to cut in. The working party agrees that pensioners and cohabitants will increase their pensions, but if the different services do not exist there, it will not help with more money. The Labour Party and the Centre also agree that hospitals need more funding and will be in favour of it. The Labour Party is therefore shocked by the Progress Party, which did not find a single crown for hospitals in the budget agreement. Then suddenly cheaper alcohol and taxes on caravans were much more important than the health service. No, the credibility of the Progress Party must be significantly impaired in this budgetary procedure. Then I would like to ask the Center Party: does the Center Party agree with the Workers' Party that hospitals cannot continue without this affecting patients if this budget is adopted tonight?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1155	The centre party and the Workers' Party are very similar to each other. The difference between us is that we want to give money now to the municipalities, to the hospitals, to get roadwork done, when people are free. We want to make those decisions now when the Stortinge deals with the budget for next year. We don't want to defer those bills. I believe that it is not enough to believe that more is needed for the municipalities. You have to give money, and I understand that the Workers' Party wants to postpone that allocation to spring. It is right now that the municipal elected representatives are dealing with their budgets, and it may be now that it is decided that some schools should be laid down. It's probably the same for hospitals. I know at least that many places around are now being discussed whether to lay down a small hospital, because they are not sure if there is any more money. We think it is completely irresponsible not to give real signals from Stortinget that the level of service available in the hospital should be maintained, and that professionals should not be cancelled. Today, health companies have been granted an operating credit of NOK 4 billion. Then we read in the newspapers that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health says that you assume that that operational credit is used if the option is to reduce services and cancel people. It has nothing to say to the pressure of the economy whether there is money from the operating credit account used or whether it is an ordinary allocation. I imagine all the extra meetings that are now held at all levels in municipalities and in healthcare companies, because we do not decide to budget, but say that we will return to that. I'm glad the Workers' Party and the Center Party think the same. I think it is a pity that the Workers' Party does not want to grant the money now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1165	Can I correct an obvious misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1172	Can't you take it in a three-minute post a little later tonight, or can you take it between you? Be good – Svein Braid to line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1177	There is no doubt that Norwegian industry is struggling with high wage levels, high interest rates, strong exchange rates and not least excessive levels of taxation and charges. The budget that will be adopted will also have a tightness and a number of measures that can contribute to a general improvement in the conditions for Norwegian industry. Not least, one settles some of the matters that Morten Lund himself has said. But the picture is nuanced, and also in vulnerable industries, there are examples of initial investment and optimism. When the representative Lund describes the situation of Norwegian industry and industry, in particular in the so-called District Norway, there is a long time between the lighting points, but correspondingly closer between the targeted, selective aid measures, both industry and geographically, proposed. The word ‘nutritional neutrality’ is almost elevated to the ultimate fy-word. The support measures described by the Centre in its budget are intended to provide capital to selected industries in selected areas. But at the same time, the Centre wants to double-tax private investment capital by reintroducing the dividend tax. There is also a desire to increase the taxation of average labour income. My question to the representative Lund is as follows: Why is increased taxes on labour and increased taxes on Norwegian investment capital the right medicine in the situation we are living in in Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1186	Let me first correct the misunderstanding of the previous line round. The working party allocates more money to health businesses, more than 500 million. kr, which came in the last round. So to the line from the Right and the question of nutrition neutrality: how good and how healthy is that now? The centre party believes that we need to invest heavily in those areas from which we are already strong, and we want to have a long-term policy. During the previous period, the Stortinget adopted a stepping-up plan to market Norway as a destination. We agreed that this is where the state should contribute money. Then it is taken away by the current government in the name of business neutrality, because there are tax incentives to help the small businesses around Norway! We have introduced research fees on fish, involving money from industry to research. The state now removes its share to match this. It has been decided to invest in forest culture. In the name of nutrition neutrality, it is removed. We don't think that makes sense. We think we should continue to invest in those areas where we are strong from before. So to the question of the tax policy that the Central Party is pursuing is destructive to business. We don't think so. We think it's right that those who have a lot of time already contribute something more to keep society going. When we compare the level of taxation in Norway with other countries, it is not that bad. I think that a proper comparison, which we hope will be made when the Skauge Committee comes up with its report, will show it. Taxes on dividends from shares are in most countries. Now Finland is discussing introducing it, with exactly the same rate as that in the Central Party's alternative budget. In Finland, if the proposal is adopted, the dividend will be taxed by a total of 43 p.m., as in the Centre Party's alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1196	The SV and the Central Party are some about a lot in this budget. We're against the unsocial cutters that ram sick and old. We're increasing both transfers to the municipalities, SV something more than the Center Party. We are concerned about the situation of the rising unemployment rate. We are opposed to the tightening of the day-to-day arrangements and are in favour of strengthened labour market measures both for the ordinary unemployed and for the unemployed. We have a common housing policy and strengthen the framework for the House Bank. We are opposed to the extensive structural changes that the Government Party and the Progress Party have announced through the Budget Agreement, which will lead to the privatisation of schools, health and care, interventions that will clearly weaken public services and the ability to offer high-quality services to all, regardless of income. But there's a big difference between SV and the Center Party, and that's that SV redistributes within the budget framework, while the Center Party is well to distribute. The centre party spends over $3 billion more on the oil fund in this budget than SV does. So SV is clear what we're prioritizing away, and what we're saying no to. Didn't the Center Party also insist on being more clear about prioritizing and preferably telling us what they say no to?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1203	The centre batch is open to use more oil money than proposed by the Government. But then we also demonstrate that the Government and the Workers' Party and the majority on the Stortinget are using oil money and saying that they do not anyway. The addition of equity to the Post and NSB outside the framework, and then to take it back in extras to the State pension fund or as an extraordinary dividend from State Power, is to wash oil money. Not adding to the budget what is needed for the students to be covered next year is adding side bills. To say that municipalities will receive money and that health companies will receive money, but they will not get it until spring, is to cheat on the rule of action. The center party says we should be able to use something more oil money – we need to have limitations – but we need to spend some more oil money, for example. for road construction, because in that sector there is no capacity available. It doesn't increase the pressure in the economy that we spend extra $1 billion on road construction when there are unemployed people, and when we take away bottlenecks that are expensive for business. In connection with the transport plan that was treated well a year ago, it was estimated that by not investing 1 billion kroner in roads, we received extra costs in society of 1 billion kroner. We believe that in areas by area there are examples of how this can be done. By spending more money on social security agencies buying operations, so that sick people become workers again, we save public expenditure. We think that makes sense, and we want to get more on it. Otherwise, I definitely believe that there is a very small difference between SV's and the central party's thinking around exactly these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1210	When I hear the representative Morten Lund, I wonder if we live in the same country. I live in Norway, which is classified as the world's best country to live in, and next year it will be better! However, because there are still some that do not share in all prosperity, the government has launched a poverty and alcohol action package. 400 million. kr shall be used to get people out of their misery. And then we spend 3.6 billion dollars more on the municipalities, and that means a historic babysitting. In addition, we want to give NOK 657 more in cash support, and the single caregivers keep the baby supplement. We also spend more on pensioners and on health, and provide tax relief for the benefit of businesses and voluntary organisations. The party where the center is located is probably spending a lot more money. I don't think interest rates, exchange rates and business are that important. But why the Center Party should sneak in cash support, so that those who need a day mother or a trainee lose all support, I don't understand. The center party knows that we live in a piggy country, and it can be very far to the nearest kindergarten. Does the Central Party really think that they know best for all the families of children? Is it, therefore, that the Central Party withdraws the option, which is one of the main points with cash support? Has the Centre Party started taking away cash-stamped bits for pieces worth over $1 billion in 2003? In this case, the families of children should know. Then it is certainly a problem for the Center Party that the Christian People's Party cooperates with the Progress Party and the Right. It's strange, because the point of the Christian People's Party has always been what we work together on! A good deal has been given to us this year, with NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities, more to pensioners, to seafarers and health. Does the representative, Morten Lund, remember that the Senter party was involved in negotiations with the Progress Party and the Right in 1998? Then we cut almost $1 billion – $790 million. kr – to the municipalities. Isn't the Center Party afraid to meet herself in the swing door?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1219	That's exactly what we're critical of: what is the Christian People's Party with and about? I have allowed myself to draw up examples that Pole packages should still be able to be shipped around the country without cargo, while the grant to send medical packages is being removed – by the Christian People's Party in government. It's not a big amount, it's just $25 million. kr, but for some reason it will be removed. In the course of two years, the Christian People's Party has been involved in reducing the brandy fee by 25 pst. And those who understand it say that it has no significance whatsoever for the border trade. In that case, it had to be reduced by 30 pst. two years in a row. The only thing you can achieve with that is that the state is losing money. The center part uses no more oil money than the others, but we're not hiding the bills. If the Christian People's Party is to cover what the municipalities now need, and what the Christian People's Party rapporteurs say is needed – to cover what is needed for hospitals, what the outlaw costs, and what the yard support costs – it has to add 4-5 billion kroner to this budget. And it's not going to happen until next year. The center part has already deposited that money, and we've financed it by means of large cuts. We have financed it by some more tax for those who have more from before, and we have financed it by reintroducing taxes on dividends. Last year we have real figures, 30 billion kroner were paid tax-free in dividends to people in Norway. It's as much as the gross turnover in fish and aquaculture. I think that's a lot of money. We have wanted to postpone the issue of taxation of capital income until we have received a proper investigation. The Christian People's Party and the Government went in to remove the tax that we agreed to introduce before we got that investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1230	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1233	The 2003 state budget has a good left profile. It's a tight budget, which helps create and secure jobs. It's a budget that's forward-looking and is investing in innovation by investing in higher education and research. It is a social budget aimed at eliminating poverty both in poor countries and at home, and it is a budget that takes environmental challenges seriously — in other words, a budget with environmental, small businesses and social responsibility. The environment is a high priority. The budget contains a historical commitment to public transport. Never has so much been allowed for collective action, especially in the big cities. Railways are being upgraded, and young people and students are getting cheaper tickets. The government will also follow the efforts to save energy and alternative energy with increased permissions. There will be more to environmental research, biological deficiency and safe food. Prior to the budget, there was one main demand from the entire Norwegian industry: a tight budget to secure jobs. We've delivered that. Budgetary negotiations have provided a budget that is as tight as the government's proposal, and the reactions of industry are clear and positive. It may always be tempting to spend more money for a number of good purposes, but the costs of increasing interest rates and job losses are an expensive price to pay. No curtailment seems more unsocial than high interest rates, which frame both private individuals, municipalities, businesses and not least young people to establish themselves for the first time. A tight budget that is involved and prevents further strengthening of the krone price is also the most important measure to secure jobs in District Norway, yes, a strong and competitive business in Norway as a whole. In the negotiations on the 2001 budget, the Left closed down in order to eliminate the investment levy, and this year it is finally gone for good. This makes it easier for business to spend $6 billion a year and is especially important for the many small, innovative businesses. The removal of the complex fee is also an important contribution to reducing the form field and to a simpler Norway. There are also a number of other improvements in the budget that benefit business and innovation. The research will be strengthened by 600 million. SEK, in addition to three new billion for the Research Fund. New district funds are created, and in addition, the tax relief scheme for business research is extended to cover all enterprises, resulting in an additional EUR 400 million. kr. This budget has thus become a force for small businesses and for innovation. Taking social responsibility is setting up for those who have the least. The 2003 budget has a better social profile than any socialist government has managed to deliver: combating poverty at home and abroad, measures to improve everyday life for our drug addicts, measures to combat violence in society, measures to combat trafficking in women and children and a strong growth for psychiatry — to mention some measures. On this background, the claims of an unsocial budget are becoming strange, and they are no longer correct if they are repeated infinitely. The left and government win over 850 million. More to the world's poor through increased assistance, more labour market measures for social assistance recipients and immigrants, increased bus pay and better responses for drug users and homeless people. There is a historical focus on kindergartens, more on hospitals, cancer care and the elderly, and the introduction of a roof 2 to cover them with high disease costs. Instead of spreading measures thinly beyond targets, the government is making a real effort for those who need it the most. It's anything but unsocial. It's taking social responsibility. I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party, which has taken responsibility for the budget negotiations and helped to provide us with a budget that can facilitate interest-rate cuts and secure jobs and business. The Budget Agreement wins the main priorities of the Left and Government, while increasing the permissions of the Government. municipalities, culture, collective investment, transport, and tax relief for those with the lowest income. This is a good government budget with a profile that Left is very much satisfied with. Here it is a good environmental profile, a social profile and an offensive industrial policy. It is a budget of concern for the environment and small businesses – and with social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1275	The representative Vihovde said that the budget had a "good left profile" and that it was a social budget. Of course, there is a government budget scheme that is good social, but this budget also means that from 1 January, 625,000 elderly and non-pensioners will have to start paying a proportion for medicines on blue prescription, which they have released from 1 October this year. This means that from 1 August, families with children under three years of age lose over 650 kroner a month in child care because the baby supplement is removed. This means that parents with children in school leisure schemes have to expect to pay a good deal more for the place from the New Year. This means that the unemployed can lose up to NOK 20 000 per year in unemployment benefits. This means that single mothers get less support for child care, and that means that from 1 January, support for funerals is over – all because the government parties and Carl I. Hagen’s Progress Party seems to be more important to give more tax relief to those who earn well than to give a handshake to elderly, disabled and families with children. The representative Vihovde also said that this was a budget that had a good environmental profile with a focus on the environment. In an interview with Bergen's Official Journal, the representative said that at least she had not experienced that the party in the negotiations had made demands that caused Left pain. So the social cuts don't hurt. Now maybe the Left has gradually developed a high pain threshold. So for a party that wants to be an environmental party, it is not painful that the agreement with the Progress Party involves 70 million. kr for environmental research has disappeared from the budget and, in addition, under the agreement, no restrictions are to be imposed on activities that increase the availability of our national parks through so-called eco-friendly industrial activities. In Norwegian, more motorised traffic in national parks means. What's it all about for the Left to feel pain?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1286	When it comes to this budget and the social profile, the most important thing is to give people work. The most important contribution I see in this draft budget is to put in place measures that will make the most people get to work faster. When one knows that today there are 10,000 who have been on social welfare for over three years, the most important contribution to giving them better opportunities to manage themselves needs to be to secure them. Some budgetary constraints have been mentioned earlier, including with the support of the Labour Party. There will always be actions that frame some, and that may be unfortunate. But overall, the situation is that we live in the richest country in the world. We have some social arrangements that are lubricated beyond, which are good for most people, but which are less targeted at those who have really little. So you're talking about these 625,000 who now have to pay for their assets. Not all elderly and disabled people have bad finances. If you look at the statistics, you'll see that there are a lot of our older people who actually have more wealth than they do. many of the young people who are injured. Then it's important to target the efforts against them. Then to the environmental bite. The left is very satisfied with this budget when it applies to the environmental bit. There is a record of increasing research funds, and there is a historical commitment to collective action. Then you can go inside and see that there is a reversal in some areas, but even if there has been a reversal in environmental research, we have actually seen more resources than the Labour Party itself proposed in its budget for 2002. So I'm actually quite satisfied with the environmental effort as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1297	In the past, Left tried to profile itself as an environmental party, it was the small and medium-sized enterprises that were at the centre. What the left is trying to profile, I haven't quite got along, but I've seen that they're at least happy to sit in government. My question concerns the introduction of environmental taxes. The Progress Party has argued on several occasions that some of the environmental taxes do not work in relation to the objective of improving the environment. The government is now proposing a new environmental tax on HFC and PFC gases. That the Government's arrangements do not include a reimbursement scheme for collected gas, we believe will undermine the collection scheme. What, in the view of the Progress Party, is the worst with the whole proposal is that gas used in closed fire-fighting systems is now subject to an environmental tax which will increase the price of these plants by 300-400 pst. These facilities have no effective alternatives for some uses, including: in the fishing fleet. When they become economically impossible to finance for users, they could put life and health at risk to many who have risky jobs at sea. Does the Left consider it reasonable that gas used in closed installations, which therefore does not pollute anything, is subject to a so-called environmental tax, so high that it could endanger life and health?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1307	The representative Monsen wondered if the left was still occupied by the small businesses. I used very large parts of my post to point out how important this budget is for small businesses. Investing in research and education, removing investment taxes and some other tax havens will actually enable our small and medium-sized enterprises to develop and participate and contribute to the creation of new jobs. When it comes to environmental taxes, the Left is concerned about the imposition of environmental taxes to regulate people's behaviour. When it comes to this specific charge, I believe that taxes that make people think about the environment, think about energy use and think about security are important. There is a discussion – and there will be a case for Stortinget – about car charges, where the Left also focuses on the promotion of cars that are as environmentally friendly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1314	I noticed that the representative Vihövde boasted of the Left profile in the budget. I expect that it is not the money for booze and caravans she is looking for, but something else, which I am not quite able to get hold of. I would like to ask something about the verbal proposals that are in line with the Progress Party. SV and Left do not agree with regard to the view on privatisation. I have often seen Left as a party with a pragmatic relationship to that type of instrument; one has been in favour of it sometimes when one has thought that it would be reasonable, and went against it the other time when one has thought that some services are not suitable for being put out to competition or put away to private. In the agreement, there is a proposal for a so-called right of challenge, which shall give any company the right to challenge different municipal service providers and producers. Although it is not a proposal that is finally adopted in this round, there is much pointing towards the fact that there will be a reality in Norwegian legislation gradually, with the support of the Left. This is just an example of a dogmatic approach to privatisation. It is suggested that all those who work in municipal services will have to be able to be challenged by private actors – a systematic suspicion of those who work in this sector, where it is thought that it would be good always to be able to open up to that kind of challenge and offer from private actors. I wonder what the Left really thinks about this, whether it is illustrative of the Left's view of the privatisation issue, or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1325	The most important thing for the Left when it comes to the public services is the quality requirement. It doesn't matter so much who delivers the service, whether it's a public added or an added to a private enterprise – it's the quality that matters. Then it will be up to our municipal politicians and up to us as big-time politicians to make quality demands, set us goals for public driving. For those who perform the task, it does not matter what assignment conditions they have. When it comes to Commune-Noreg, we in Left are over-informed that one can outsource some tasks to private ones, but it must be up to us to set the right quality requirements. There will always be a discussion about health services and about social services. But also within that area, I believe that if we think about the quality, the user, what makes the individual person feel like – instead of being so busy with the addition relationship to the service provider – we will be able to make better use of the resources we make available today. We also want to be more able to influence the quality of the services provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1332	In the middle of the disagreement, there is one thing we can agree on, and it is that the border trade does not stop by an attempt to bully those who trade – it has not happened. It is that border trade is increasing if it becomes more profitable to take the trip. I feel like that's what the government is now trying to do by cancelling the allowances for how much one can carry – and sometimes increasing the quotas on how much one can carry with him of meat. In the so-called luggage regulations, it is suggested that it can be taken with you, which was previously 3 kg, now will be 10 kg. The consequences of these changes have not been investigated, but representatives of agriculture and the meat industry have helped us with a few figures. They say that this will lead to what is being introduced today, so-called private import, which is 4 pst. of our meat consumption, is going to increase to 15 pst. – what each one takes. This will result in the loss of 1000 jobs in the meat industry and 1500 other jobs in agriculture, as well as quite a number of jobs in trade and transport. There are some thousand jobs that it says – and the consequences are not established. At the same time, we know that within the EU the rules are tightening up. Now the Swedes are only allowed to take 1 kg of meat from Norway. There is reason to be afraid of animal health and to bring in products that are not good enough. Then there will be a rapid selection, on the initiative of the Progress Party, which will look at what creates border trade and what will be the consequences. The centre lot wants this sample to also look at the consequences of private meat imports. We think it's completely wrong to increase the quotas here. Hordaland is one of the countries that currently lose most in annual work and in the number of farms. The question is: why will the Left not help to ensure that we get such an impact assessment through the sample that is now to be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1339	Now the proposal and any amendment to the aforementioned regulation are out of the question. There is nothing in Stortinget yet. For the Left, it is important to ensure that we have an agricultural policy that produces good food and safe food, and that we take care of both the cultural landscape and the district of Norway. I think, and the left believes, that agriculture in Norway has a future. Being able to further develop food and market our nature and our ability to deliver safe and clean food is something that is important. The representative Lund was in the border trade. Now, when we're going to evaluate border trade, that piece is probably also going to be part of an assessment. But that was not exactly what was in the agreement between the government party and the Progress Party – it was more to see the border trade tied to alcohol, and the connection between alcohol damage and increased consumption if you do something with that charge. So I think most people in Norway don't travel across borders to shop food. Most of us may travel across borders to get a nice ride. In many parts of the Kingdom, there are few possibilities to cross borders to get cheap food. I think most people are busy getting good food. They will have the food at the local store at home and will support him. There are studies that show that most people are concerned about having an agricultural holding in Norway and that they are going to shop for the food that this agriculture gives us. I believe that border trade is a rather exaggerated issue, which is an exaggerated belief in one's being able to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1350	After today, there is little doubt that the Government has its parliamentary basis in a majority with the Progress Party, not only because they have actually cooperated on this budget, but because it is clear to everyone that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have given far more to the demands of the Progress Party than to what they were in the vicinity of the Labour Party's demands. It also applies to the environment. Although the Verbal Proposal for Protection and Sustainable Use has been wrapped in many fine words and a lot of wool, it is clear here that the Government is being asked to facilitate the increased tourist use of sites established under the Nature Conservation Act. The Government shall file a case on this matter before 1 October. I have to say that I am excited and very worried about what this will mean. For good reason, many people would argue that this could mean a severe setback for the law on nature protection, that it could mean that we have to change the law. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Vihovde, very specifically, the representative who has been sitting at meetings and participating in this: what does this mean, what does it mean? Does that mean that the Left will change the law, or can the Left say today that they will not change the law on nature protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1357	Changes in laws may occur, but changes may not make you more accessible to the areas that may be important to screen. What we see today is that we have increased tourism into the mountain home, into the pristine nature. So taking an overall evaluation and looking at the impact of use, for example. in the mountains I think is important. One has to look at the wear and tear on some mountain tops because one has increased access, on motorized travel inside the Hardanger range, and on our demands – as users of nature – to have a comfortable and good time when traveling in the mountain home – maybe we want a shower when we arrive, maybe we want three dishes for dinner. So we're increasingly demanding what we're going to achieve on a mountain trip. Then I think it's important to take a full review of this and look at the areas that today have a peace stamp, look at the way we use these. This can work both ways; some places may be possible that we can increase access and ease the requirements, but other places may be possible for us to tighten up the requirements that are there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1362	So this line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1365	I hope the Government is prepared for the extra appropriations that will secure the coast and the fishing grounds against the consequences of the breakdowns that may occur. Although ‘Gudrun Gisladottir’ does not represent a disaster similar to that affecting Spain, it has to be cleaned up. With oil tankers along the coast, we have to prepare for a much higher preparedness than today. I refer to the questions I asked in the previous period, and to Document No. 8 proposals on the king crab, but I'll come back to it when we're dealing with energy and the environment. The tightness of the budget reflects political governance, the phase-out of the outdoor and home competitive industries, maritime industries and the dramatic decline of primary industries. The price will be reduced export income, deprived communities, urban densities, declining environmental quality and increasing social problems. Without the value of districts, we lose long-term opportunities to maintain well-being in this country. The market for profitable services is being reduced. The need for publicly paid services is increasing, whether public or private, to provide the service. The coastal party has a different vision. We want to develop – do not liquidate. We have a vision of investing in modern infrastructure that makes it possible to live and operate traditional and new businesses throughout the country. We will provide competitive industries with the same framework as foreign competitors. It provides profits to strengthen municipalities, secure children's growth conditions and provide them with theoretical and practical training, depending on a knowledge-based society. We want to secure values, secure the conditions of old and sick, and ensure that the pensions keep the level that we were promised at the time of the establishment of popular peace in 1967. We will increase research efforts to develop new industries based on natural resources and modern technology. This will increase the growth of the mainland economy, even when oil revenues decline. This is the Coastal Party's vision, and it requires larger investments domestically and correspondingly smaller equity investments in an uncertain world economy. It is a vision that presupposes the willingness to prioritize value-generating investments rather than luxury investments in the capital. It is not possible to build an opera in a traffic machine. The Opera Decision is about building a new city in Oslo east, and it's about a hundred billion investments. Who's going to do that job? The rule of action for the use of oil money is based on a negative vision, and on the fact that growth in the Norwegian economy is to be derived from the return on other countries’ economic development — not from our own value creation. This is the Coastal Party's disagreement. The Coastal Party will strengthen domestic value creation as much as possible with oil money. The Coastal Party will have a rule of action in which the consideration of unemployment and production is better taken into account. In 1904 we had a foreign fund of 50 million. kr. It was dissolved in 1923, and then it was halved. I'm afraid we're on our way the same way. The Coastal Party believes that fiscal policy must support monetary policy, so that we keep unemployment down and production up. With the right investment in domestic projects, oil money will provide secure jobs, well-being and a safer future than foreign investment will provide. The Government and the Workers' Party talk about both the krone price and the interest level, because the tightness of the budget is defined in relation to winding-up rather than development. Now a few thousand jobs are completed each month. We're about to have 100,000 unemployed, and it's going to get worse. The entry-blocking of young people and end-of-life benefits in active fishing will eliminate Norwegian fishermen and end the basis for coastal settlement. Similarly, poor framework conditions for the fleet group providing training for seafarers will eventually eradicate the Norwegian seafarer. The resolution strategy is clear to anyone who wants to see it. It is not obvious that the Foreign Affairs Act should not apply to vessels flying a foreign flag and with foreign ratings from port to port in Norway. The law must apply to everyone, and you are required to have a work permit and a residence permit in order to be able to work in Norwegian ports at all. We don't take advantage of the labour force we have. Nevertheless, the government is talking about the pressure in the economy and about the tight labour market. Should long-term high unemployment create international competitiveness? In which fields are we going to compete? President! I'll draw myself here and now to a new three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1384	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative has made proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1387	I'm taking some extra time, but I'm dealing with the suggestions that we've been making on our own, and the suggestions that we're making with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1393	Steinar Bastesen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1396	Politics is about choosing. In the Labour Party's proposal for a State budget, we have made choices. We give less in tax relief than the government parties and the Progress Party do, but in return we can give more to work for everyone and more to welfare, so that everyone has equal opportunities. We are doing more to secure jobs and industry, and we are doing more to ensure basic welfare benefits, such as good health care, good care for the elderly and good schools in municipalities. We have presented a draft budget based on the basic values we stand for as a political party, the values that have been crucial to the design of the Norwegian welfare society after the war. It is a policy to create and share the Workers' Party's proposal for a State budget. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have also made choices in the budgetary agreement they vote for later this evening. Those who have the most, get more. In return, there are many of them that have little, that get even less. Too little is done to ensure jobs, and several social cuts are implemented in schemes that are important to many of those who have difficulties in the Norwegian community. It's a different course, a different policy, than what the Workers' Party stands for. This is a follow-up to what happened last year. Then the country was given a new government with the declared purpose of giving social development a different course from that of the Workers' Party. A government was formed with the support of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has said that this is the government's parliamentary basis. It was therefore the government parties and the Progress Party that announced last autumn that a policy should be implemented that goes in a different direction from that of the Workers' Party. And so it was not unexpected that it was these parties that agreed on the budget last year, and that this harvest is the same batches that agreed on the budget for next year. It is not new that the Progress Party participates in budgetary conciliation and is therefore responsible for government budgets. Of the state budgets for the last six years, the Progress Party has voted in favour of four. What is special is not that the Progress Party votes in favour of a State budget. What is unusual is that the Progress Party is trying so intensively – and more now than in previous years – to waive responsibility for the budget for which they have actually voted. Without the votes of the Progress Party, the budget would not have been adopted, and therefore the Progress Party must acknowledge the consequences of the budget for which they actually vote. It is not possible to vote in favour of a budget you are opposed to. The number of unemployed is increasing. According to the government's own figures, we can approach 100,000 unemployed during the winter. The Labour Party believes that it needs offensive industrial policies and increased efforts to provide the unemployed with training and skills so that they can more easily defraud the job vacancies. But what are the answers of the Party of Advancement and Government Parties? In fact, at a time when unemployment is increasing more than a long time, substantial cuts are proposed in the daily allowance of the unemployed. Not only are there to be more unemployed, but the unemployed will be less paid for the day. The Norwegian daily allowance rates are not particularly high at international level. Nevertheless, a comprehensive cut is proposed. For the unemployed, it may be up to NOK 20 000 less per year during the day. It means less to some of those who initially have the most difficulty in Norwegian society. Last year, a unanimous decision was taken to remove excesses on the blue prescription for disabled and old-age pensioners. All the parties thought it was a proper reform and in line with other social arrangements we have. For example, disabled persons and old-age pensioners have own arrangements in the tax system. The Labour Party believes that the arrangements for which the parties voted last year should continue this year. This does not mean the Party of Advancement and Government Parties. Tonight, they decide to reintroduce excesses on the blue prescription for the vast majority of the unsatisfied and the vast majority of old-age pensioners. More than 625,000 disabled and old-age pensioners will have to pay, from New Year's Eve again, excesses on blue prescriptions as a direct result of the budgetary agreement The Progress Party and the government parties vote for later this evening. Today, we have an arrangement with a baby supplement in child care. It helps children's families with the smallest children to have an extra handshake from society. The working party believes that we should keep the infant supplement. The Government Parties and the Advance Party shall ensure that it is removed. It is the same parties that ensure that it is cut into the system of child care for lone dependants and that the draft budget for which the Progress Party has been an active defender is removed. One of the clearest and greatest differences between the draft budget for the Workers' Party and what is now adopted is the commitment to our common welfare assets in the municipalities. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the main welfare schemes — school and care for the elderly. The situation in the municipalities of the country varies, but it is not possible to get past the fact that in many municipalities the situation is serious. While efforts should be made to make better use of the money — more efficient, better organisation of municipal activities — more money is also needed if we are to ensure a good school and good care for the elderly. Nearly half of the country's municipalities have announced that they will spend less on school next year. It means more students in the classes, and that means less special education. Today, we have also been informed by the Municipality of Oslo that because the majority in this room will halve the grant to the school leisure scheme, the cost of the school leisure scheme in Oslo is nearly NOK 5000. If we are to ensure a good school and a fair and good school leisure system, the municipalities must have more money. That's why we're proposing an extra NOK 3 billion to the municipalities, just to ensure good care for the elderly and a good school. The most important thing in our draft budget, in addition to well-being, is to remove the unsocial cuts that government parties and the Progress Party are now being adopted, and to do more to secure jobs. That is why we are proposing increased efforts for research and development, we are proposing more focus on measures that can lead to new start-ups and innovation, through SND and other government instruments, and we agree that a tight budget should be available to help reduce the pressure on the dollar and interest rates. Our budget line contributes to less use of oil money than the government's budget line and is thus a better contribution to bringing down the dollar and interest rates. It is really quite alarming that the largest opposition party, the Workers' Party, is also in opposition to present budget proposals that are more responsible and put up for less money use than the government party is doing. We did so both for the current year and now for the 2003 budget. This weekend I saw a news release in a newspaper about Saudi Arabia, which also deals with the state budget these days. There are simpler situations where – what we can call a majority rule – and less need for budgetary negotiations. But in return, they also have to contend with the budget, in the sense that although Saudi Arabia has much of what Norway has in oil revenues, and has significantly higher gas revenues than Norway, they now have a significant deficit in the government budget. They've had that for a long time. It shows that even high oil revenues are not a guarantee of a solid and good economy. On the contrary, constant proposals for lower taxes and constant proposals for increased public expenditure in Saudi Arabia over many years have led to increasing economic problems in spite of increased oil revenues. In fact, they have in common with the vast majority of countries that have large revenues from natural resources. It's going well for a while, but then the problems get big. One destroys the traditional part of the economy by spending too much of the oil wealth too quickly internally in the economy. We've seen that in Norway in the 1980s. We've seen it in the Netherlands in the 1960s and 1970s, and we've seen it in a wide range of Arab oil producing countries, which have major economic problems precisely because of the large revenues from oil and gas business. Although there are considerable differences between Norway and Saudi Arabia, it is at least the common feature that we both have a challenge in managing large revenues from natural resources. The most important thing we can do now is to contribute to the sound management of those revenues. The Labour Party has submitted this in its proposal for a State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1443	The government put forward a tight budget. Most of them agreed on the need to secure jobs in this country. And a tight budget in this context – precisely to ensure value creation – is also a social budget. It's actually the economic value creation in Business Norway that we're going to live on, and that also provides the basis for the well-being we're going to distribute. The representative, Stoltenberg, said something about offensive industrial policy. Yeah, we put it on. We have brought considerable relief to the business community. We have also provided incentives for individuals to improve the efficiency of the economy. We believe that this is precisely necessary to ensure the values that we are going to have, in order to distribute the well-being at the next moment. So what does the Workers' Party do? Well, they're going to drop by $4 billion in tax increases. It means a rage. It simply means that business – small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway – is getting much more difficult. And that also means the loss of jobs in the long term. Now I believe that the representative Stoltenberg and the undersigned barely agree on the description with the black paint of the Norwegian economy presented by the representative. But perhaps it is possible to ask the representative of Stoltenberg about the following: when the NHO, the Land Association of the Process Industry, Abelia, the Land Association of the Construction Industry, the Land Association of the Travel Businesses, the Land Association of the Service Companies, the Land Association of the Technology Companies and the General Organisation of Trade and Service Industries all say that this is a good budget, what are they not understanding, as the representative Jens Stoltenberg can explain them?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1454	First of all, the question of a tight budget, to which the Government is committed to stress that the draft budget is adding up. Yes, it depends on who you're talking about. For those who have the most, this and the last year's budget is not at all tight. There are significant tax reliefs for those with the largest assets, the most expensive dwellings and the highest share income. For them, the budget is not at all tight. It's actually so that we haven't seen a slacker budget in very many years. On the other hand, the budget is tight for those who have little – for those unemployed who get up to NOK 20 000 less per person. in the case of disability and old-age pensioners who receive an increased percentage, for those with children in the school leisure system who receive a more expensive school leave scheme, and for single dependants who are dependent on supervision and childcare and who are cut off from the social security schemes in place. Whether the budget is tight or not depends on who you're talking about. It's hard for many of those who already have it the hardest. So to the question of taxes. It is not that the Workers' Party increases taxes. What the Workers' Party is doing is reducing the tax relief that the Government puts up to, simply because we think it's more important to bet on, for example. economic development through grants, support for research, development and start-ups, because we believe it is more important to ensure that the unemployed do not get drastic cut in the daily allowance, and because we believe it is more important to be able to have a commitment to care for the elderly and school in the municipalities instead of giving extra relief to those who have the most from the past. And it is also very typical that every time the Right sits in government offices – whether it was in the 1980s or the 1990s – it is bad for Norwegian industry. What is also typical is that while the Right is in the government offices, everyone other than the Right is responsible for the bad for the Norwegian industry. It's always the opposition that's to blame. It's time for the government itself to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1461	I think Jens Stoltenberg now drove with a lot of murmuring. Maybe he could become a little more offensive in his own policy rather than just criticizing others. I would like to stress that what he is talking about when it comes to the Progress Party is not our primary budget. Unfortunately, our primary budget is downplayed, but then we usually vote for the second best instead of resigning, as Jens Stoltenberg does. Today's newspaper says, "This is what will happen to Jens. There are four points mentioned. Point 1: ‘Ap must be in the first place in the fight against increasing unemployment.’ Why does the Workers’ Party go in to aggravate the divisional model for small and medium-sized enterprises? Is Jens Stoltenberg also aware that he was opposed to income policy cooperation in winter, which could have prevented the costly wage making that led to the companies becoming less competitive, and that all the same standard of living could have been ensured by offering tax relief instead of high gross wage increases? It would be a better policy. Jens Stoltenberg said no. Is he willing to admit that the Progress Party has made significant improvements here? We have taken it seriously in terms of trade union movement and have prevented the deterioration of the system of leave. We have also listened to the companies, and we have increased the depreciation rates for machines – the two most important things. There we were better than the Workers' Party, which didn't get anything. Then it's point 2. The working party shall ‘ensure that pensions increase in line with wage developments’. The Labour Party has not contributed to this. They have voted in favour of a general rule, but during the social security settlement, the Progress Party proposed to do exactly what Jens Stoltenberg says he will return with the Workers' Party. Then the Labour Party voted against. They are not to be trusted in terms of pensioners, and have never been interested in increasing pensions for people most and minimum pensioners; I can mention, for example, Our battle, now crowned with a certain victory, to stop some of the theft from married pensioners. So well-being: Stoltenberg will focus on heavy welfare tasks such as school and care for the elderly. Why does the Workers' Party not want to say that the State must have a financial responsibility for school and care for the elderly, instead of just giving the municipalities more money so that they can build more town halls and more cultural houses? He now boasts that he is increasing the municipal budgets by one poor percentage. Is there a difference between poverty in the whole care of the elderly in Norway and that there are no problems at all? Jens Stoltenberg agrees that 1 pst. difference is not the difference between heaven and hell?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1474	The President has previously stated that the implementation of Storting's decisions as theft is not parliamentary, but it does not seem to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1477	What I did in my speech was to point out the differences between the policies that the Workers' Party stands for and the one that the Advance Party is now actually voting in favour of with the government parties. I hear the Progress Party says they voted for the second best. Now I had not expected the Progress Party to vote in favour of our budget, but it is nevertheless such that if they had voted in favour of our budget, all ill-satisfied and all old-age pensioners would have been exempted from propensity on blue prescription. If they had voted in favour of our budget, there would still have been subsidies for the school leisure system. And if they had voted in favour of our budget, the unemployed would not have been deprived of considerable money in cash, and we would have retained for example. the scheme of childcare allowances. It is therefore not that it is second best in the sense that by voting for the agreement you will have less social cuts than you would have had with the Labour Party. There are these unsocial cuts removed. But the Progress Party still chooses to reconcile with the government parties, because there they get something they would not get with the Labour Party arrangement, namely, lower taxes to those who have the most from before. That's what's the big difference. If you had voted in favour of the Workers' Party's arrangements, you would have had a much more social arrangement, more for the care of the elderly and the removal of the social cuts, but you wouldn't have had a lower tax for those who have the most from before. Then the Progress Party chooses lower taxes for those who have the most in the past, rather than correcting the unsocial cuts that could be made through what is in the Workers' Party's arrangement. With regard to the basic amount, we made an agreement with the pensioners' organisations every year when we were in the government position in the 1990s. We believe that what happened in ours is very serious, and that the government did not do its job. Therefore, we will propose that the guidelines be tightened so that we do not receive under-regulation of the basic amount in the course of the process. What is serious is that the Progress Party did not take the opportunity to rectify this when we dealt with the revised national budget in ours, but also then voted in favour of the budget without extra money in the basic amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1486	Jens Stoltenberg and I were at the EL & IT meeting a few days ago. As we are well known, we now work confidently, and that means, of course, that SV's leader listens carefully when Jens Stoltenberg speaks. In this context, I was told that this man is not just for Norwegian EU membership; he loves the EU, because it is not any glow he shows when the EU debate comes up. And it's also not possible to get under the chair that this is one of the difficult policy areas if you're going to be able to get to a center-left collaboration, which can prevent just such a project and such a vision. That is why I would like to ask Jens Stoltenberg: is there nothing about the EU that Jens Stoltenberg dislikes? For example, it is true that quite a number of citizens in EU countries are deeply dissimilar to the EU, and that very many of the current EU countries might have problems with their own population if they put the question of EU membership to a referendum. And the next question is: how significant will a Norwegian EU membership be compared to what is a sensible project to manage Norway? Because if this is really a matter of enormous heart failure at Jens Stoltenberg, it is the Right Party, and perhaps in part the Advance Party, that will be the nearest ally of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1499	It's true, as the representative Halvorsen says, that we are now travelling around and doing reliable work. In my youth, I called it something completely different. But if it is that you can have a love relationship with an institution, I do have it in relation to the European Union, in the sense that I believe the European Union is very important for peace, for development and for many other important values that I advocate in my political work – the European Union is crucial for it in relation to Europe. At the same time, I see that there are features and characteristics of the European Union that I do not appreciate and that I believe are negative. But the paradox is that the vast majority of the negative aspects of EU cooperation are already a part of us, because those are the things that relate to the commercial aspects, the purely economic aspects of EU cooperation. I also see negative sides there. It is Norway part of the EEA Agreement, while the parts of EU cooperation I believe are the most positive, the political cooperation, the work for peace, for security, for eastward enlargement, we do not fully participate in, or are actually excluded from. If you're going to have a relationship with someone first, most people have both good and bad sides, and then it's nice that you just have a relationship with the bad sides and not with the good sides. I would like to have a firm follow-up, a full and complete relationship and thus contribute to our participation in EU cooperation, both in relation to what is good, and to what is more problematic, in which we also participate to a large extent through EEA cooperation. I believe that the EU case is so important that the Labour Party cannot dissociate itself from the possibility of resuming that question. We have decided that we will have freedom of action in this period, and I expect that we will also decide that we will have freedom of action in the next period. It's a freedom of action The Labour Party believes it's right that we have, and it could also have consequences for what kind of cooperation we can have with other parties. But that problem we'll have to deal with whenever it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1513	I understand that the representative Halvorsen was concerned about Stoltenberg's relationship with the European Union. I have to admit that I was more worried when he started talking about Saudi Arabia, because then it sounded like a moment when he was about to want to go back to the good old days when democracy could be practiced on old-fashioned workers' parties. But luckily it's been a while. I would still like to start with a little praise to the representative Stoltenberg. They were willing to negotiate a budget, even if they didn't go that far. And the second is that they are still on the principle of tight frames – that they are actually responsible. I thought there was reason to praise the largest opposition party for that. But when the representative Stoltenberg talks about business, he has forgotten what they said earlier about the dividend tax – that there was a problem with Norwegian ownership. They have also forgotten what they said in the electoral guarantee with regard to the top tax. They have gone away from that, and I think that should be a problem for the representative Stoltenberg in relation to Norwegian ownership. So for distribution, which the representative Stoltenberg is concerned about, and he will. Where cash support is involved, all distributions have shown that there is a good distribution policy. That's what the representative Stoltenberg thinks is too wrong. Therefore, cash support must be halved – NOK 18 000 in losses for young children’s parents in the year following the opinion of the representative Stoltenberg. And as if that wasn't enough, they're also going to go free of what the government is doing for voluntary organizations. 6 000 in tax deductions — in fact, it would be serious for tax revenue to begin to attract private items to voluntary organisations. What kind of trust is there in voluntary organisations? I find it very regrettable that the representative Stoltenberg is in favour of it. And then I forgot that when it comes to kindergartens, one is willing to give up – according to Today's Business – 38 000 kroner in tax bills to those who charge more than 800000 kroner. Now, the business of the day is not always counted correctly, so there may be a mistake there. But I did not find the redistribution project of the representative Stoltenberg hanging together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1528	First, I would like to commend the representative Lilletun for a very tidy and proper behaviour throughout the budgetary process, and because he emphasises that we have a responsible budget. I am also quite sure that Lilletun has always been concerned that we should have a budget with a good social profile and bet on the municipalities. I believe that more had been achieved in that direction if one had gone further in the direction of the Workers' Party and got a deal with the Labour Party, but so one chose to go far in the direction of the Progress Party, and then one got a budgetary settlement with the Advance Party where there was not enough money spent on municipalities, and thus on elderly care and school, and where it was not done enough to remove unsocial cuts in the budget. It is true that, together with the Christian People's Party last year, we went in to reintroduce the dividend tax, because the tax reform of 1992, and in particular the so-called sharing model, was so eroded that very many people who would have a higher tax rate than 28, managed to circumvent it, among other things. using the tax-free dividend and all the gaps in the sharing model and the tax system. Therefore, together with the Christian People's Party, we wanted to have a temporary dividend tax until we got a new and better tax system of corporations and capital. We are actually at the point of agreement, but I understand that the Christian People's Party has changed its mind and is now opposed to the temporary dividend tax they were following a short time ago. With regard to top taxes, we have carried out an increase there from 2001 to 2002 — from just over 280 000, where the top tax started before, to 320,000 kroner, and the Labour Party proposes to increase it further to 325 000 kroner. So we first took the initiative to increase from 280 000 to 320 000 kroner and then a further increase. But it's true that we don't follow the government parties all the way up to three hundred and some and forty thousand, simply because we think there are other things that are more important. We propose greater tax relief for the lower incomes than the government parties, and we have more for disability and old age pensioners. And we think that's more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1537	The Labour Party and the Centre Party are in this budget together in important areas. We are both for a more offensive district policy, including measures for competitive business. We are in favour of a fairer distribution, which means lifting from below, which means turning back the government's unsocial cut, and which means that we are supporting the Government's poverty package. But we don't accept that there are weak groups that have to pay this package. We are also both for a strengthened community economy, which is now the most necessary to ensure a more dignified care and a good school. Last year the centre party proposed a stepping-up plan for a better local economy – a plan to go over several years – and we are very pleased that both the Labour Party and SV have joined him. But then KS has shown that there is a need for $5 billion for municipalities next year. If they don't get it, it'll be cut both in school and care. Then we wonder that the Labour Party can no longer take action when it comes to the local economy. One important piece of the $5 billion is $2.1 billion to cover an increase in pension expenditure. In our view, it's a transfer from funds to funds that won't create pressure in the economy. Then the municipalities have a new problem. There are letters from the Minister of Finance that there is a smaller tax increase of DKK 1 billion this year compared to what is budgeted. Will the Labour Party engage to cover that billion? It would be very safe if Jens Stoltenberg could give positive support to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1546	The Workers' Party is very committed to strengthening the ability of municipalities to provide good welfare services to the inhabitants of this country, including care for the elderly, schools or other important welfare services provided by municipalities. Then we believe that there are at least two things we have to do. One is that we have to organize the municipalities better, that's what I want to call the systemic crisis in Kommune-Norway, and we need to review the way we organize and finance the municipalities. We have also taken part in our decision at the national meeting to look at either locally at the possibilities for closer cooperation between municipalities or to carry out investigations and assessments of the benefits of community mergers. We believe that a better use of the money in the municipalities is important. Public sector renewal also applies to Municipality-Norway. Without it it will be impossible in the long run to make sure that we have a good and well-functioning welfare society here in the country. Yes to renewal, and yes to better organisation of the municipal sector is an important part of the Workers' Party's message. But the other part of the Workers' Party's message is that precisely because we agree to spend the money better, we also believe that it is necessary to spend more money. That's where we distinguish ourselves from the Right, which obviously believes that the best way to get renewed is to almost strangle the municipalities and then through drastic cuts get a renewal. We don't believe it. We think it's necessary to spend more money. There's a fundamental and important difference. We think it's wrong, as the government now says, that in the next year you're going to spend almost 12 billion dollars in lower taxes, so there's going to be two to three billion extra kroner for the care of the elderly and the school in the municipalities. It is choosing private consumption rather than common goods, and it is contrary to what the Workers' Party stands for. I just notice that the Center Party has more money in opposition than they had in position, and it's good to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1555	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1558	The Progress Party has provided in its alternative budget for far higher tax reductions and significantly greater cuts in public expenditure than the Government has proposed, because high taxes and the high and progressive taxation of labour income have exactly the same unfortunate socio-economic impact. The charges make goods and services more expensive than necessary, and increased labour or capital spending does not pay out in the form of a corresponding increase in purchasing power for the individual. The party to the progress will therefore be in favour of tax reductions on goods and services currently subject to high excise duties in addition to normal VAT. It is important to distinguish between tax and tax rates and revenue, because while a reduction in tax and tax rates in the short term leads to a reduction in income, the long-term effect on the economy is the opposite. This is because lower taxes and taxes have a dynamic effect on the economy, so that the tax base is extended. This will in the long term increase the country’s income even at lower tax rates. So there are several good reasons to reduce tax rates, not least the fact that many charges have an unfortunate social profile because they all hit equally hard, regardless of their ability to pay. The electricity charge is a typical example of that. It hits the pensioners who are struggling to keep the heat in old drafty houses, just as hard as those who have large luxury homes with heated swimming pool. The families with large consumption of hot water and a lot of laundry are also hit hard by this fee. Of course, this is particularly serious right now, where we are moving towards a historically high price level. The fact that the country will then have increased tax revenue while many older people cannot afford to keep a reasonable indoor temperature in their homes is unreasonable. The Progress Party has proposed in its alternative budget a reduction in the electricity charge of 55 p.m., which would help many through the coldest months of this winter. The many and high taxes on cars and car use also give unreasonable results. The car is no longer a luxury reserved for them with good advice, but a necessity for most of us, simply because society has changed so that the mobility that the car provides is absolutely necessary both in work and leisure time. That is why it is wrong when the Norwegian one-time fee is not only among the highest in the world, but also has a progression that makes very many in this country unable to afford to buy the car they really need. Often it gets too small, or too old and insecure, or both. The Norwegian car park is among the oldest in Europe, with an average age of over 10 years. And when we know that newer cars are significantly more roadworthy and in addition pollute significantly less than old cars, it is difficult to understand that it is impossible to get a majority for measures to renew the Norwegian car park. It should not be the case that Norwegian drivers have to drive more dangerous cars than drivers in other countries due to high taxes. Despite the fact that we in Norway have some of the oldest and worst cars in Europe, the Norwegian average family spends more than 60,000 kroner a year on a car, most of them in terms of taxes to the state. It is claimed that, in addition to being purely fiscal, car charges will also contribute to reducing the social costs of road traffic and that these costs will be borne by users. In my view, this is a questionable principle, because an accounting is made that only has a cost side and does not take into account the enormous value the car contributes to. Had these accounts also included the car’s contribution to the economic development of society, it would clearly have shown that road traffic is making a significant net contribution to the social economy, especially in a country as long-term and sparsely populated as Norway. Therefore, in its alternative arrangement, the Progress Party proposes significant reductions in the one-off, annual, re-registration and fuel charges. Another significant and tax-induced problem is the large and growing border trade and smuggling. This is a problem that we as a nation have to deal with gradually. As our neighbouring countries receive ever lower prices of goods such as food, tobacco and alcohol, the pressure on Norwegian taxes will increase, and then it must be reasonable to start adapting Norwegian taxes to Swedish levels before the Swedishs reduce their taxes further. The Progress Party does not want to stand in the sand and play ostrich, but proposes to lower both tobacco and alcohol charges to Swedish level, as a step on the way towards a European level of charges, because it is the only measure that really works against both smuggling and increased border trade. 10 pst. Of course, the reduction in alcohol levies is pleasant for those living far from the Swedish border, but will hardly be enough to dampen either the smuggling or the border trade. The progress party wants to do something about a wide range of charges. Some of us want to reduce, others that are poorly justified, have little economic significance, create increased bureaucracy and are largely irritating to most people, we want to remove.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1571	Many have focused on how the government of Bondevik increases the differences in Norwegian society. There are social and class differences, differences between sick and healthy and differences between the different parts of the country. What has received little attention is how the Government is increasing the generation gap in our society. The vast majority of young people are among those who win at least on a policy of taxation. To all intents and purposes, young people with the majority's draft budget have to pay their solid share of the bill for the same taxes. In the personal tax field, the main changes made by the Government have now been to eliminate the tax on dividends and to increase the point of entry for the top tax. In addition, the Government has indicated that reductions in the tax on wealth will be a high priority in the future. Tax returns in these three areas are very unevenly age-related. Young people have low incomes, do not own shares and do not have wealth. The vast majority of young people are completely unaffected by the rise in the peak tax entry point. All 80 pst. the population below the age of 31 serves less than what is needed to benefit from this, according to the latest tax returns statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics. Almost everyone who receives dividends in Norway is a middle-aged person. Young people between the ages of 17 and 24 have an average dividend of NOK 1000, which is very different from most other age groups, and in particular between 45 and 54, where the average figure is NOK 15 800. Young people most of them naturally get zero, since dividends of a certain size are reserved for the few. Dividends are largely collected on the hands of a few middle-aged men from Oslo and Akershus. They may be warmed by the heart as they think today of the concern shown to them by the Bondevik government and the Advancement Party. Young people are also the age group that has the least to gain from the relief of taxes on wealth. On average, young people owe large amounts of student loans, mortgages and all the other entrance tickets they have to pay to establish themselves. A large-scale effort on tax breaks affects young people twice. First, most young people get no pleasure from the tax havens. Secondly, the cost of tax relief must be borne by the cost of public services. Increased excesses further strengthen the generation gap, because very many of these come to services of which young people are users. There are several serious examples of this in the draft budget submitted. Lower scholarships make it more expensive for students to study, and high school students now have to pay for all their school books. SV will take up the fight against this side of Difference Norway as well. So in our alternative state budget, we're adding a youth package of NOK 1.7 billion. It contains both tax letters directly aimed at improving the economy of many young people and the various appropriations that will improve the situation of young people in relation to the studies, on the housing market and in the everyday life of others. Last year nine members of the Young Right came into the Stortinget. They promised to put young people on the agenda and put their mark on Norwegian policy. After one year and two government budgets, it is time to prepare accounts for the Young High Representative for the Year, and the result is welcome. Only one of the key electoral commitments of the Young Right is met, namely the removal of VAT on driving licences. For young people in Norway, the outcome of the Right-wing Policy has been a number of serious cuts. The student discount on long-distance travel has been cut down, the free school books have been removed, there is almost full stop in the construction of youth rental homes, and now students' loans and scholarships are not being priced. The result for young people that the Right People under 30 have had an influence on the State budget is just as bad as when there are Right People over 50 making budgets. The budgetary agreement recommended by the Government Parties and the Advance Party contains clear priorities. The majority in this room shows which side they're on. When the budget was presented in the autumn, it was clear that we have a government that will give priority to the rich, healthy and childless. The Progress Party, which, in its comments on the budget, produced itself as a defender of the interests of small crews, old and sick, has also prioritised money for spirits and caravans in the budget agreement. There is a pattern in the government's priorities that clearly points forward towards the Right Society. In the Right Society, the welfare state is being built down, class divisions are not considered a problem, and private solutions are preferred. Not least are the verbal proposals included in the conciliation document clearly visible. The right society is a society in which large tax havens reduce public revenue and have to be compensated by increased self-esteem, a society in which there is no longer any aim to combat economic differences but rather to grant some charity to the poorest. From 2002 to 2003, there is an increase in private consumption which is seven times as high as in public consumption. It is only in relation to the school and hospital this budget is tight, it should not be tightened in relation to new shops or hotels. The poor public economy makes it easier to win with proposals for privatisation. The budget proposes large amounts in support of private schools and routes are to be offered. SV will go a completely different way. Our alternative budget line contains the priorities that should have been set in Norway. The budget that SV is presenting today puts people and the environment first. It's a budget for justice, sustainability and popular rule. It's a paradox that one of the parties behind the majority proposal here today has'most people' as slogans. If one is a drunken shareholder with a caravan, it is possible to get a certain benefit from the efforts of the Progress Party, but for most of the people the Progress Party is trying to show up as champions, the budget will only help them get on the wrong side of rapidly growing class divisions in our society, and that they get a weaker social security network around them. And for that of the parties that have "warmer societies" as slogans, there is reason to ask who in the world is warming up from a budget that makes the liquor cheaper, while losing the job becomes more expensive. The guiding principles of the SV's draft budget are governance and justice. By building a strong welfare state and by taking back control of market forces, we can also stop the development of a society with greater injustice and less security. The choice is between privatisation and group power or democratic governance and democracy. Once upon a time, it was just such a goal that was at the heart of Norwegian policy. In 1947, when Minister of Finance Erik Brofoss presented the first national budget, he said from this pulpit: ‘It would be a step towards increased freedom to be able to free ourselves from the blind submission of the coincidences of economic life, which to individuals seem to be natural forces. We must seek to be masters of the economic forces, instead of being mastered by them." Today's government will bring the same market forces under control and, in partnership with the Progress Party, will give them ever greater freedom, for example. in the form of the proposal on the right to challenge contained in the budget agreement. The blind submission to the randomness of economic life, which seems to the individual to act as natural forces, as Brofoss said, can be a good picture of how today's globalisation process works for many people. In reality, of course, it is governed by political and economic elites who, through decisions on deregulation and privatisation, shift power to the randomness of the free market. Today, many of the leaders of the international network «Our world is not for sale» are gathered to meet in Oslo. They are representatives of social movements representing millions of poor people, trade unions and peasants in the Third World. They urge Norway to use its unique position in Europe — as one of the few yet autonomous countries — to counter the EU and the USA’s raw materials in the expansion of the international free trade agreements. But the majority here today are turning the deaf ear to this prayer for help. The proposal states that the Norwegian Government will work actively to expand WTO agreements with new themes such as investment and so-called transparency in public procurement. Many developing countries and the social movements in the south require, in all modesty, that the existing agreements be evaluated before that happens. The same proposal has been promoted by SV in the position, but without the support of the majority in this Chamber. Although there is a joyful increase in budget assistance, it is sad that the majority is not even willing to address an evaluation of whether free trade policy has contributed to the fight against poverty in the world. Supporting the richest and most powerful countries in the world to maintain structures that create poverty and marginalisation is of little help. In all areas of policy, the budget is the majority of the budget today and what SV is presenting is counter-polar. It represents the choice between those who will give the most to those who have the best from before, and those who will give the most to those who need it the most. It represents the choice between those who will let the decisions in our country be taken by the blind market, and those who will build an enlarged and strengthened democracy. It represents the choice between those who will stand on the international side of the rich and powerful, and those who will fight for the environment and stand united with the oppressed world. It's a sad fact that it's the former group that has a majority here today, but we're going to promise to do everything we can to create the protest and mobilisation that is needed to make the lifetime of this unsolidar and unfair majority as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1608	The next speaker is Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss. The President makes it clear that we are going to continue the meeting beyond noon. 15 in order to complete the line change following the statements of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1611	I am pleased that there is now a majority in the Grand Duchy of Budgetary Frameworks and a content that is broadly in line with the Government's proposals. There is also reason to give honor to the parties that have set up. The Party has taken responsibility and has had an influence on the design of the final settlement. It comes from taking responsibility. The budget is tight. The underlying expenditure growth remains half a percent in relation to estimates on accounts, the rule of action is followed, and the so-called structural budget deficit remains unchanged from the Government's proposals. So that means that we don't spend any more billions of oil on the budget deal. The national budget prioritises tax relief rather than increased expenditure growth. With a real underlying growth in public expenditure of half a percent, the budget is, as I said, tight. Together, this dampens the pressure on monetary policy. Economic policy guidelines mean that if the economic cycle is weakened and the estimated price rise is not in conflict with the inflation target, the Bank of Norway will reduce interest rates. This could also contribute to the weakening of the krone price in order to improve working conditions for competitive business. With a tight budget, low growth in public spending, labour demand is also subdued. The very pressure in the labour market was the industry's most frequently stated cause of the overpriced wage-fixing that they themselves carried out this year. The economic policy guidelines are also in line with the recommendations of Norway from the OECD and the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. In the OECD’s own ‘Economic Outlook’ for November of this year, which provides the OECD’s estimates of the Norwegian economy, these are fully in line with the Treasury’s assessments in the national budget currently under consideration by the Stortinget. The OECD stresses, for its part, the importance of compliance with the Financial Policy Code and that the budget submitted should allow for lower interest rates. Norway’s Bank kept its interest rate unchanged at 7 p.m. at the Bank's interest rate meeting on 30 October. Monetary market prices currently indicate that market participants expect a fall in interest rates at a point between half and three quarters of a percentage point during the first half of 2003. During the autumn, there have been some signs of lower activity in the Norwegian economy. The registered unemployment rate has increased. On the other hand, AKU unemployment has remained fairly stable. The increase in registered unemployment has been concentrated on services sectors, in particular the IT industry, and in central strata in the East. In recent times, there has also been a slight increase in the number of job vacancies in industry. But this development can be reversed. Politically, all demands of social organisations are now met. Before presenting the budget, they asked for a tight budget, increased tax incentives for research and development and improved depreciation rules. Everything has been followed up by the budget and the budgetary agreement. Now the companies also have to follow up themselves. Moderate wage settlements are expected to help mitigate the pressure on the price of the crown, and we expect, through the new arrangements that have been put in place, increased investment in conversion, research and development. The debate has turned so far, among other things. about tightness. To interpret the posts of the Workers' Party – the largest opposition party – at least the posts have not been marked by political rigour. The government is accused of cutting too much, and there is a call for increased investment in several public areas. It is not difficult to agree individually with many of the points about the need for increased investment, but to get tighter in the overall economy of the budget – and that is what counts for interest – one must also be willing to carry through a few cuts. Higher expenditure increases the pressure on interest rates and interest rates. Higher expenditure growth is the result of the Alternative State Budget of the Workers Party, as it has now been presented in three versions. But also in the final version you have a twice as high expenditure growth as the government. There is also no reduction in the demand for labour when public expenditure is thus increased more strongly. On the other hand, keeping such expenditure growth is a major problem for competitive business. The billion bill of labour on increased taxes on industry also has the same negative effect. Industry has not asked for the reintroduction of double taxation of dividends. The comparison with other countries as part of the debate is limp, because it cannot be seen that the Norwegian tax base is significantly wider than, for example, the Norwegian tax base. the Finnish language, which was highlighted in the debate. Increased taxes on wealth for small and medium-sized enterprises do not help to strengthen their economy and survival in difficult times. The sharp split model goes in the same negative direction. Nor does it help in the moderation, not least in the run-up to a salary settlement next year, to increase the tax on average income through the top tax, as the Labour Party does. The Labour Party's fiscal spokesperson, Hill-Marta Solberg, said earlier in the debate: we have increased the top tax entry point. It's an original statement, because the top-tax entry point has not increased in line with wage developments, as the Workers' Party itself has defined in its so-called securities. For all practical purposes, it means that the point of entry has been lowered. This also means that more and more people are going to pay top taxes: 240 000 new ones. This is contrary to the Workers' Party's own securities, and it is contrary to the budgetary assumption that tax rates should follow wage and price developments. It must be said that the Workers' Party's securities, which are relatively fresh, have had a greater fall than the average stock exchange drop in Norway and the world. The Labour Party has also launched the concept of majority rule, and it has been interesting to follow this debate so far. The debate has been essentially a settlement between the parties that consider themselves fit to govern together, parties that have had a lasting settlement on monetary policy and do not agree on any definition of the country's monetary policy. These are parties that think they should rule together. There will be an exciting seminar. But it can be expensive, terribly expensive, if you want to have a public seminar between government parties on something as serious as the country's monetary policy. But when this is said, I still have to pay tribute to the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party's spokesmen were very clear that the party stands firm and consistent in monetary policy. It is important for responsible batches. But the parties also disagree on other pieces, on important parts of economic policy. The centre party has launched a version of the action rule, which simply states that the action rule applies as long as new billions of needs are not identified. Then there is no rule of action. The parties disagree on both objectives and rates of taxation policy. I am not going to continue into the security and foreign policy for the sake of sociability. This is going to be a very exciting project to see developments in the future debate. Many have spent time painting the situation of the Norwegian industry. Perhaps then a recent information from the Statistical Central Agency can contribute to a somewhat more nuanced debate. Today’s published figures show that we have high investment in Industry-Norway, in fact the highest in relation to four to five years ago in the current year. So we have to go back to the period 1996-98 to find correspondingly high investments. The high investment will also continue into next year. It also belongs in the picture. For any interest it may have, these figures are still consistent with the forecasts in the national budget. There hasn't been so much talk about the exact national budget today, so I just thought I should contribute to it. This does not mean that there is a basis for opening up the debate on industrial problems. But it shows that the picture is more nuanced, and that we have opportunities to reverse negative developments for the country. Overall, this budget means that we are able to combine rigour with tax relief and investment in key welfare areas. The government's budget is in many areas a record effort in health, in psychiatry, in kindergarten, in research and higher education, and in particular a poverty effort that also takes an initiative globally, where something important is being done in addition to the universal benefits that are widely agreed here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1640	It was peculiar to sit and listen to the Minister of Finance rallies over parties on the Stortinget saying that one has the intention to cooperate despite the fact that one actually disagrees in some areas. It becomes particularly peculiar when the Government, where the Minister of Finance has one of the most important positions, has turned around in the Storting for weeks. They started at the Progress Party, then a round to the Workers' Party, and even a trip into SV to see if it was possible, and then again to land at the Advance Party. With such a story behind me in the budgetary process, I think it's a good idea to go to the pulpit and raddle over the fact that the opposition parties at Stortinget are talking about possible cooperation in the future. That's what I think the Minister of Finance should be. I would also like to say that I think the Minister of Finance has to decide what argument he is going to use in terms of budgetary rigour. In spring, the Minister of Finance came to Stortinget with a budget with a historic increase in expenditure growth of 2 and 1/2 pst. When we asked questions about it, there was no problem, because the tightness of the budget was linked to the rule of action and the use of oil money. Then it was the most important thing. But a finance minister cannot choose the most appropriate argument at the moment. And I noticed that the Minister of Finance didn't say in one word that the Labour Party, which he actually spent a little time on, uses less oil crowns than what the Government does, and less than what is adopted today. My question is: what is the Minister of Finance really doing when assessing the rigour of the budget? Is it so that it matters how much oil money is used, or is it such that you choose the argument that best fits at the moment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1650	It must be better with a government that actually goes around to all parties and seeks support where it might be found. I have to admit that in the preliminary budgetary negotiations in Stortinget, I was also in doubt whether there was any interest in participating in creating a budget at all. And never has Stortinget waited so long to see the parties' alternative state budgets like this harvest – in fact, it has never been later than this autumn. It may have something to do with the fact that most people thought it was nice to present the schedules to the budget, but less pleasant to present the discovery. It's not that surprising. My point was just to talk a little about the opposition's alternative and, point 1, take it seriously – I have understood that this is perceived as an insult – and then point out the seriousness of the parties' disagreement about something as profound as the country's monetary policy and the alignment of the entire economic policy, referred to as the rule of action. I've been using the same measure of tightness all along, the underlying expenditure growth. The underlying expenditure growth should be sought sustained during the growth of GDP for mainland Norway. It is the same for the two budgets in 2002 and 2003. I hope we can keep that. As regards the working party's tightness in the budget for the revised national budget in 2002, if the term ‘harry-money’ were to be used, the term ‘harry-money’ would be a tribute. For what the Workers' Party really did, was just withdrawing $1 billion of the defense agreement that they had just been on, and saying that it was going to come back to next year. Next year -- it's now. The money's gone. The working party owes NOK 1 billion to the defence agreement they have entered into. And it's not even a budget line, it's just double accounting, the first year you actually had to meet the defense agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1659	The regulatory time for the morning meeting is out, but the president assumes that he has the room with him when he suggests that we continue until we finish the line change. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1662	That was nice! The Minister of Finance and the Government have been very concerned about repeating the need for a tight budget throughout the budget. It has seemed like it's been the most important thing for the Government. In the budget negotiations, the government parties showed a complete lack of real coverage – a crown for crowns, of which the Minister of Finance himself on repeated occasions has been very concerned. Reality has therefore become creative bookkeeping, to say it in fine Norwegian. That's why I want to refresh the finance minister's memory. During the debate in Stortinget before the adoption of the 1999 budget, Inge Wohnning, the Right-wing Representative, said: ‘I am grateful that the Council of State acted in its delay and did not count on the Right in the Collection Heat charged with using ‘harry-money’’. In the 1998 budget position, the Court’s own budgetary observations are as follows: ‘These members note that the cut-off proposals which appear to cover this part of budgetary understanding do not fully involve real, activity-reduction measures. Taking into account some such ‘aircraft’ means the budgetary understanding that has been achieved to reduce rigour’. Furthermore, they have written in their comments on the 2001 budget position: «Alongside this comes a budget line.» And in the Newspaper, in 1998, the current Minister of Finance, the then Financial Policy spokesman for the Right, Per-Cristian Foss, is referred to: 'That means the cuts aren't real,' said Foss. Other terms for harry money are ‘paper cut’ or ‘aircut’.’» The example of such a rough cut is that ‘the sale of shares covers expenditure in the year of sale, but the following year you are equally long, it is tricked in other words with budget lines so that it looks good on paper and gives the impression of a violent tightening instrument’. How does this relate to the argument that the Government is now leading?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1694	Well, it's so good to hear that it's in line with all the budgetary guidelines, as has been done under this government and previous governments. I think it is so good that the Progress Party is voting for it! [[Laughter]] It also depends so well on the fact that the Workers' Party is also voting for it. But it's nice first to get it peeled out, then to vote for it. Then you'll get the best of two worlds! I get that. In terms of one-off income, I have to say that it is not entirely alien from previous budgetary procedures. I have agreed to vote in favour of the dissolution of the Fund for both the Postbank and the Municipal Bank, as far as I can remember, under changing governments and finance ministers – several of them are still in the Chamber. The advantage now is in many ways that we have some one-off incomes, but we also have some cuts that have more impact, yes, actually multiplied more impact in 2004 and years to come compared to what has been included in the 2003 budget. It supports the Progress Party. I'm glad. The working party is against it. It had given them a major containment problem in the 2004 budget. But they probably had only dealt with that in line with the defense agreement, so there had been no problem. I appreciate the fact that the Progress Party is involved in actually supporting it. In the case of activity-reduction measures, it is only possible to look at the reaction of those who have been cut. I haven't experienced a single cut where those who put them on have said that it has no effect on the economy. In fact, I've experienced one in part dramatization of the effects, whether it's a billionaire or a $10 million cut. kr, which has led to a number of large newspaper headlines about the dramatism that comes with it. So there are effects in the real economy of cut that are done in the equation. Of course, any finance minister would have added that there had been a slight increase in the value of the 2004 and 2005 budget. That's what I'm talking about. I still think so, but in fact this time we have the situation that the bonds are somewhat more balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1710	President! To a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1715	It must be obvious – so obvious that even the President understands it! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1718	I'll make a try, President! It's not that the Progress Party wants to vote against the cuts. The point has always been the debate on whether or not this money can be called money. Our point is that it would have been more pure-haired by the Government to admit that this figureing really means spending more of the oil money. Because that's the de facto reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1725	Just that point, the President thinks the Minister of Finance understood, but failed to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1728	More for the President than for the Replicant: It is true that any number production now shows that we have exactly the same structural budget deficit as in the proposal. So we're going to spend the same amount of oil money, depending on what kind of eyes you see.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1735	The President hopes that we will not set up a separate investigation commission related to the use of cannabis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1738	I think I can reassure the president that it's not going to happen. And of course, the reason is completely obvious. A finance minister and a government always have certain opportunities and certain freedoms that a large majority of people can never afford – it would be called irresponsible, it would be called harry money. If I don't take a lot of mistakes, it was the finance minister himself who invented this term a few years ago. That means that we will live with this under different governments. Harry Money will probably exist in Norwegian politics regardless of who is in government. But let me drop it. There are two things that I think are striking in the statements of the Minister of Finance. The first is that he owes to anyone other than the government. He owes it to the social partners, he owes it to the former governments, and he owes it to other parties in the Great Britain. He says that now we've just delivered the item, so if unemployment doesn't go down and the industry goes well, it's the other one's fault, and not ours. We have delivered, we have done everything you have asked for. The husband of a disclaimer is very rare to hear from a finance minister from the Stockholm pulpit. The other striking thing is that he uses large parts of his post to roll over, or try to ridicule, the opposition in Stortinget and what might eventually become. That he chooses to use parts of his contribution to the financial debate, which is the Minister of Finance's debate on the national and state budget, on the opposition, is quite pleasant. He tried to pretend that this was ahonor, although of course from his point of view it was the opposite. It does say something about the fact that the Minister of Finance may be pressured on what he has been given here, is uncertain or does not think it is particularly brilliant, because I have not felt that a finance minister chooses not to defend offensively what the Government has done in the Storting, but instead uses speaking time – a measured speaking time – to gloat over the opposition. How this should be interpreted, others can decide, and not just me, but I think it's more than striking. I fear what can happen during the winter, because if the government continues to blame others and does not take responsibility for its own actions, it will mean that when unemployment increases, when the municipalities get more and more trouble, this government will say: This is not our responsibility, it has everyone but the government – perhaps it is even the opposition!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1748	I started my post – Djupedal was also present in the hall – by saying me very pleased with the budget decision for which it is expected to be a majority. I have praised the budget, both on the tax side and on the expenditure side, not least through the important priorities of health, psychiatry, kindergartens, poverty reduction, etc. But I have actually allowed myself to comment on some of what has been the opposition's alternative, because it has been the topic of today's debate. I'll keep doing that. If it can be called ridicule, may be up to the eyes that see, but I find a deep disagreement about the central aspects of economic policy. Nevertheless, I note a broad consensus between the Government and the Labour Party on monetary policy, and that is important for the country. As Minister of Finance, I do not owe it to others, but it is important that there is an interaction in economic policy between three main elements: monetary policy, financial policy – I have talked a lot about that – and wage policy between the social partners. If the settlements become too expensive within the limits set by the economy, they contribute to the price pressure against the krone and against interest that damages competitiveness. This is a very good relationship for the social partners. We are in good dialogue with the big organizations about this, and I think they see their responsibility to a significant extent. Let me say this: I experience a completely different debate in debate with LO's management, with the leadership of the Education Groups, with the management of YS, etc. on precisely this, because they see their responsibility to help save jobs, not least in the competitive industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1755	The high interest rate and the dollar create huge problems for a lot of our business. The centre party sent out an invitation to an industrial policy settlement in the summer. One of the points was to clarify the consideration of employment in the Norwegian Bank's interest rate instructions. Another point was to improve income policy cooperation with the social partners. A third point was to give tax relief to the companies, less to the private. A fourth point was increased contributions to job creation and development. We received relatively little response, and we therefore submitted a proposal to clarify in the interest rate instructions that more attention should be paid to employment considerations. Then came the draft budget. It did not refer in one word to part 2 of the interest rate guide, to take account of stable production and employment. Only the inflation target was emphasised in the statement made in the national budget. Through our proposal and in the debate that has taken place, we have achieved that the government parties and the Labour Party are quoting the whole point of purpose in the vote. SV supports the proposal of the Centre Party. This is what I believe the Minister of Finance has to pass on to the Bank of Norway: the entire interest rate instructions apply. We have had a very low price increase, lower than in the euro area, and we could have had a much lower price increase if the imports went down as much as the strong dollar price would suggest. I have quoted even a chief economist earlier today, who says that if car prices had fallen as much as they should have done, the consumer price index would have fallen one percentage point. The market actors are choosing. The authorities are satisfied to produce in a curve such that it is. What is done to make the imports cheaper at the store too, so that the interest rate can be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1766	I just have to admit that I had some problems understanding the context of the questions in the post, but I'm going to try to answer the questions that I perceived were asked. What is done to bring prices down – where does the exchange rate contribute to lower import prices? Heavier competition, more use of tenders! But significant things have already happened. I can say that behind the inflation figures that Norway's Bank regularly expects, we actually have a long way to go from imported negative price increases. So it would have been completely different if we hadn't had that situation. What we've produced by price rise, we've done pretty much at home. There are no changes to the instructions of the Bank of Norway. I don't have to repeat it. It has been repeated in a relatively recently discontinued word exchange here in this room, on the basis of an initiative from SV. There was a broad consensus to stand firm on the instructions that apply. It is also true that efforts to reduce the pressure on the economy through the interest rate instruments are actually in the best interests of employment. It is Norway’s Bank’s reasoning, and it is Norway’s Bank who are to exercise it. Otherwise, the Centre Party is well aware of the desire for income policy cooperation. It's in its beginning. Then we'll hope it continues, not least through two samples that are now appointed and are good at work. There should be no doubt that tax relief is targeted at businesses. But then it's pretty important that you don't take back from the same businesses, because it should be a net relief for the companies and their owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1777	After the exchange of views between the Minister of Finance and the chairperson of the Committee on Finance, the concept of money has been given a whole new content, so I do not find it necessary to re-examine that challenge in relation to the Minister of Finance. But I want to go back to what was my first line, and to which I think the Minister of Finance failed to respond. For when the Minister of Finance in his statement seeks to undermine the impact of the Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party as a tight budget, he refers to the increase in expenditure. So the expenditure growth in the Labour Party budget is about 1 pst. Per-Kristian Foss and the Government write to the National Budget Stortinget that the underlying expenditure growth should be lower than the growth of the real estate in mainland Norway. The last – the value creation in mainland Norway – is estimated to be 1.8 pst. until next year. So our alternative is well below that. I hope the Minister of Finance can confirm that there is a correct understanding of what he has written in the National Budget of Stortinget. But if it is the case that the increase in the expenditure of the Workers' Party's alternative budget is a problem in relation to the dollar and interest rates, the Minister of Finance must answer the following question: Could it be that the high interest rate we now have, among other things. is a consequence of the government and the finance minister coming to the Stortinget in May with a revision of the state budget, which was based on an expenditure increase of 2.5 pst.? It was then thought to be responsible. Can it be that it has helped us to have the high interest rate that we actually have? And finally, I expect the Minister of Finance still won't answer if a budget that spends 2.2 billion dollars less is tighter than the alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1788	What is the reason why there is a need for a tight budget? It is that the pressure in the labour market has become so strong that the parties to the wage settlement negotiate to more expensive settlement than they can really afford. Then you have to do something about the pressure in the labour market. As public demand increases, the pressure will increase. Now we have seen the need for public authorities to reduce their demand for labour, and thus also dampen the pressure, which works negatively for industry. It will have effects on wage-setting, and it will also have more direct effects on the economy. What affects the price of the crown is a more complex picture. But there is no doubt that fiscal policy also contributes to keeping a high level of the krone price. In the national budget, we have stated that we believe that the krone price is higher today than it is real economic coverage for. This has also been stated relatively recently by Norway’s Bank’s chief executive. It is such that there must be an interaction between financial policy and income policy. In this way, the mechanism of the budget we are now providing by reducing taxes on people most — low incomes, medium incomes — and mitigating the tax burden on businesses, in total, should contribute to a more moderate wage settlement. It is an essential part of the rationale for the device of the State budget. It is good that the Workers' Party is also fighting for a tight budget, and it is clear that an expenditure increase of 1 pst. is better than a triple cost increase. But that also depends a little on what you spend the money for. When you go to the industry with tax increases of 4 billion kroner, it hurts worse. When the industry has actually asked for relief, it has asked for net relief, not to pay back the same money over other accounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02.ana.ud1470e1799	The cord shift is over. That's the end of the morning meeting. The President hopes that we have not created too many problems for the representatives and the referees by keeping on for so long.
