ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e65	Four permit applications are available: an application, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Jørgen Kosmo, is submitted from the nominated Grand Delegation to Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. The application concerns the period from 7 May to 14 May of the President of the United Kingdom Jørgen Kosmo and the representative of Per Ove Width, and on 7 and 8 May of the representatives of Haakon Blankenborg, Julie Christiansen and Bjørn Jacobsen from the representatives of Trond Giske, May Hansen and Sonja Irene Sjøli on leave in the days 7 and 8 May – all to take part in the Norwegian delegation to the UN Special Session on Children in New York On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Mette Korsrud and Anette M. Solli.For Møre and Romsdal County: Ingrid I. Opedal.For Uppland County: Reidun Gravedahl.For South Trondelag County: Ola Røtvej.For Westfold County: Dag Terje Andersen and Vidar Andersen.For Eastfold County: Linn Laupsa.3. Anette M. Solli, Ingrid I. Opedal, Dag Terje Andersen and Vidar Andersen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Julie Christiansen, Bjørn Jacobsen, Jørgen Kosmo and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e140	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e143	I will, on behalf of myself, propose that a permanent unconditional prison sentence be imposed if someone uses weapons when committing a criminal act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e148	The representative of Ola D. Glötvold will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e151	On behalf of Mr Inger S. Enger and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen animal protection through stronger popular participation and co-responsibility where conflict arises due to damage and loss caused by peaceful predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e156	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e172	In the Sem Declaration, we state that the Co-operation Government will strengthen regional policy to ensure the settlement, value creation and viable communities throughout the country. The government will pursue a forward-looking and potential-oriented regional and regional policy. We will facilitate the creation of sustainable and profitable jobs, and it will be good to live and live throughout the country. Norway itself is a fringe of the world. We need to establish general framework conditions that provide the basis for developing internationally competitive enterprises and industries. This is particularly important for our export-oriented industries, which are largely located in the districts. We want to facilitate more of the great value creation potential that is currently untapped – not least in District Norway. The values created in business are the basis for well-being, employment and housing across the country. Ensuring the existence and development of new profitable jobs requires strengthening our capacity for innovation – our innovative capacity. Regional and regional policy instruments must be designed to help bring more projects from the idea stage and into profitable commercial activities. The role of the state must be based on the fact that growth is always coming from below. I would like to stress that it is not only about providing jobs in the districts, but also about creating attractive places with good living and living conditions. District and regional policies should contribute to the further development of the quality of residence. At the same time, the district authorities themselves need to be better placed on the market to promote their place of residence to individuals and businesses. Norway is a country with great diversity and diversity. Throughout history, we have developed different lifestyles, cultures, dialects, languages and cultural landscapes that represent significant self-esteem. Through regional and regional policies, the Government will take care of and further develop this diversity. For the sake of the nation's total value creation, we must operate in all parts of the country. Raw materials withdrawals and primary production in districts form the basis for much of this value creation, but there are too many opportunities. Belief in your own opportunities is important to trigger innovation and growth. The government will support the optimism and the belief in the future that characterises large parts of District Norway. The state doesn't build the country. The State shall facilitate the development of the capacity of individuals, businesses and institutions to create values for themselves and society. The government puts the individual in the center. This also applies in regional and regional policy. Each of us chooses where we want to live and work. The task of the State is to pursue a policy that makes this freedom of choice real. We emphasise the individual's right to make decisions about his or her own everyday life. Political decisions shall be taken as closely as possible. Therefore, we will delegate more power downwards in central government and decentralise greater responsibilities and tasks to the local government sector. Competition at national level triggers the individual's creativity and capacity to act, while at the same time presupposes the country's international competitiveness. Competition is exacerbating and is an important driving force for development and change. Through stronger targeting of the instruments, the Government will compensate for market failures and contribute to giving all parts of the country opportunities for positive development and equivalent conditions for participation in competition. However, the primary responsibility for value creation in Norway lies with the individual, in the individual enterprise and in the individual region. Local communities faced with major and unmanageable challenges in the form of nutrient failures and large relocations shall have the security of the community's active contribution during a conversion period until the primary responsibility for its development can be re-established locally. Independently of the place of residence, each of us shall experience the security and predictability of basic public services. In the last decades, there have been significant changes in the pattern of residence in Norway. Developments have been marked by centralisation at all levels. While the population has largely declined in scattered areas and less urban centres, there has been some population growth in urban areas and slightly greater growth in small urban areas. At the same time, the strongest population growth has come in metropolitan areas. Moving to the center is not an Eastern phenomenon. The majority of those who move from the village and settle in an urban area move to their district centre. The growth is, however, the largest in the Oslofjord region. The increasing demand for labour in central strata is partly met by moving in, but also by commuting from the rest of the world. Around the high-growth cities therefore grow the commuting area. Improved transport possibilities, the acceptance of longer commuting distances and more flexible working conditions have made this development possible. However, there are exceptions to the trend of centralisation. Over the last twenty years, the municipality of Austevoll, with 4 500 inhabitants, has grown by more than 14 pst. Vik, which is an even smaller municipality, grew by nearly 11 pst. Growth power is not only dependent on size. The movement flow continues mainly from the periphery to the centre. But it is worth noting that the move from the districts has not increased in the last 10 to 20 years. On the contrary, the domestic movement has decreased in strength. When the population returns in many outlying municipalities, it is no longer just a result of dislocation, but of so many demographic conditions. Women in District Norway have fewer children than before. This, together with the uneven age structure, means that many district municipalities now have a birth deficit. Necessary structural changes have led to a decline in employment in several traditional district industries. At the same time, typical urban industries such as personal and business services have grown. All over the world, we see the same trend. In the transition to the knowledge society, people and businesses tend to gather in cities, even though technological development itself facilitates people to live more than in the past where they want to. The proximity and diversity of cities seem to provide the best framework for interaction and dynamics. Norway’s population does not have a long tradition of living in the city. But our requests for residence are becoming more and more urban. Several young people grow up in urban areas. At the same time, more and more young people are moving into cities to go to school and gain work experience. However, a majority of us place emphasis on the quality of residence other than that of the city when we come to the establishment phase. Many will live in smaller places with good growth conditions, an active and good local environment, closeness to family and reasonable housing costs. The trends are mutually reinforcing, making it more difficult for them to turn around. Centralisation is also not a new phenomenon or a strange phenomenon. About half of the population growth in Norway is due to migration from abroad. Since the immigrants mainly settle in central strata, this centralizing effect also works. Much indicates that centralisation will continue, but we will not passively encounter such developments. We want to facilitate growth in different parts of the country, so that everyone has a real freedom of choice with regard to their place of residence and work. Growth can be created, in large and small communities. Growing societies are characterised by entrepreneurial culture, cooperation and capacity for innovation. The basis for growth is found primarily in the community itself, in individuals, economic operators and local authorities, and in their ability to cooperate and think new things. This is important for policy formulation and targeting of State instruments. The government will facilitate that the individual has real freedom to settle where she or he wants to. We will work to make better use of the nutritional potential that we know exists in different parts of the country, and provide the basis for equivalent living conditions. However, the government has no means of stopping any centralisation. There is a consequence of structural changes taking place in business and of changes in residence preferences among the majority of people. For decades, changing governments have maintained the goal of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern. At the same time, centralization has gone its way, at all levels. So it's time to ask ourselves where we want to be when new 20 years have passed. For the Government, it is a goal to curb a development in which the Oslo region continues to grow much faster than — and at the expense of — the rest of the country. We will help to further develop high-growth regions in all parts of the country and maintain the main features of the housing pattern, so that we are still able to take advantage of the potential for value creation. Our housing target for the next 20 years is a more balanced development in which all parts of the country have population growth. In district and regional policy, the government will work on four main lines: We want to ensure the basis for good living conditions in all parts of the country.We want to establish framework conditions that are so good that businesses, capital and labour remain in Norway and that we are attractive to foreign investment.We want to prioritise instruments that help to strengthen our capacity for innovation and start-up in all parts of the country.We want to focus more on regions and centres that have growth potential. We want to strengthen the growth force where it already exists. The government will facilitate the efficient use of the resources we have, wherever in the country they are. We want to stimulate change, innovation and start-up, and we want to help young people and women make greater use of their resources. Immigrants should also be able to exploit their potential better than today. Potential innovators and entrepreneurs will be the main target group for business-oriented efforts. For districts it will be important to attract young people in the start-up phase. In this group, mobility is high, and relatively many are motivated to live outside the larger cities. Not all communities will have population growth. But also places of population decline should be safe and good communities to live in. The government will ensure the basis for equivalent living conditions, and then primarily through the municipal income system. Throughout the country, people must be able to feel the security of basic services in education, health, care, law and order, etc. Economic growth in the country as a whole is central to regional development. It is therefore important, even from a regional policy perspective, that economic policy should be designed in such a way as to promote value creation and efficiency in general. Good business framework conditions are necessary to produce profitable and competitive enterprises that can contribute to increased value creation. Throughout the country, business is increasingly operating in a global market. Not least for important rural growth industries, it is essential that we avoid excessive wage and cost increases. Further reductions in the competitive sector will particularly affect districts. In the Sem Declaration, the government has announced a reduction in taxes and taxes that hamper innovation and weaken the competitiveness of businesses. The temporary double taxation of dividends and the charge on the flight of passengers has already been abolished. The investment fee has been removed from 1 October 2002. The government will implement additional tax reliefs to improve the framework conditions for value creation in Norway. The government has announced a reform of the taxes on income and wealth. A selection of experts shall carry out a broad assessment of the tax system and deliver its recommendation by the end of 2002. The selection will also assess the division of labour between the different components of fiscal policy, and between fiscal policy and other policy areas – such as district and regional policy. In many sectors and areas, there is a shortage of labour. The growth of many district municipalities is prevented by the lack of qualified staff. Therefore, an important part of the Government’s regional and district policies is to increase access to labour. We want to free up public sector labour, stimulate more and more of us to work, and make it easier for people outside the EEA to obtain work permits in Norway. Among other things, we are now making it easier for Russians in the Barents region to get to work in North Norway. In recent years, the importance of entrepreneurship and innovation in the renewal of the economy and in value creation has been increasingly recognised, both nationally and internationally. There are few establishments in Norway compared to other countries, and in particular there is a need for innovation in the districts. The government is therefore working on the development of a comprehensive and offensive innovation policy. The development of a good culture of entrepreneurship and the commitment to entrepreneurship in education are fundamental to such a commitment. The Government will: stimulate research-oriented and development-organisation for interaction between business, competence environments and public sectorfocusing the instrument against innovation efforts in entrepreneurship in the education system furtherdevelop resource-based industries Research and development is an important source of innovation and growth. In relation to other OECD countries, not least our neighbouring countries, Norwegian industry invests relatively little in research and development. In addition, there is a greater geographical variation in R & D activity. It is the largest enterprises in the east that receive most of the Research Council's funding for nutrient research. Among other things in Northern Norway and the hinterland, business is less knowledge-intensive, with few enterprises as customers in the Norwegian Research Council. In order to provide an additional incentive for nutrient research in District Norway, we are working on the design of tax incentives schemes for R & D, which relate in particular to enterprises in district municipalities. The government will also help to break down barriers between the knowledge environment and smaller businesses in order to facilitate interaction between actors. Ideas, development and commercialisation phases are the most critical and risky in the development of an enterprise. In these stages it is often most difficult to obtain the necessary skills and investment capacity. Experience suggests that it takes five to ten years for an idea to be commercialised. The government believes it is important that the public contributes to facilitating the transition from idea to market, and will, among other things, facilitate the transition from idea to market. facilitate the creation of several knowledge and research parks, business areas and ‘rug-boxes’, incubators, including advisory and risk capital environments. We want to facilitate regional interaction. Knowledge parks shall act as a hub in larger regional value creation environments. In cooperation with these, we in the districts will invest in business areas with incubators to bring together more small and creative companies of competence. The government decided in January this year to review the operational instruments and apparatus around it. Among other things, we will focus on areas where private markets do not function properly. The use of the active substance shall focus more on the development of commercial opportunities at an early stage, knowledge-building and re-establishment. This will require a more out-of-office and flexible instrumentation, not least targeting actors and opportunities in rural areas. The conclusions will be drawn during the year. In all areas of public industry development, the Government will impose greater requirements on target and result management. If we are to create a better culture for entrepreneurship and increase the rate of establishment, we must address young people. We need to make children and young people aware of the business environment in the local environment. They also need to develop their own interest in creating something new. In addition to providing them with knowledge of establishing a business, we need to develop their creativity, self-confidence and willingness to take risks. Local business needs to become more visible in school and contribute knowledge and experience. It will provide young people with insights that may otherwise be difficult to access. The government will invest more strongly in entrepreneurship in the education system. Several ministries have now joined forces to give Young Entrepreneurship a real boost in the development of entrepreneurship and youth businesses both in primary, secondary and higher education. An increasing number of students and students will be offered the opportunity to develop skills in setting up a business in the coming period. The government will assess how entrepreneurship can be integrated into the education system on a broad basis. Agriculture, forestry and reindeer farming are of major importance for industrial activity and housing in districts and for national tasks related to biodiversity, cultural landscapes and recreation, culture and identity. Industries face major challenges related to change and structural change. At the same time, opportunities are great. The government will work towards a viable agricultural and reprocessing industry that exploits new technologies and market opportunities and that provides consumers with quality products at competitive prices. Our geographical and climatic conditions are important advantages that need to be exploited in the production of clean and safe food, and we need to increase the production of organic products. The food value creation programme is to be continued, and we are working on an action plan to make it easier for entrepreneurs to work on new concepts in the food sector. Agriculture also has the potential for increased value creation in services, travel and care. The government proposes significant simplifications in agricultural policy. We want to provide greater room for action for the individual business operator with a focus on users with the main income from the farm. As part of a more offensive climate policy and in order to strengthen the nutrient base in districts, the Government will also contribute to increased use of bioenergy in Norway. In recent years, the fisheries and aquaculture industries have undergone significant developments. Exports have increased dramatically. There is potential for further value creation based on marine resources, not only in traditional fisheries, farming and industry, but also in new industries such as marine biotechnology, bio-prospecting, better use of by-products and the exploitation of hitherto unused resources. For coastal regions in particular, it is important that we use marine resources. The industry operates in an increasingly globalised market with strong competition. Market access, environmental adaptation, innovation and flexibility are key prerequisites for the competitiveness of Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industries in the future. Through sustainable management of natural resources, increased focus on profitability and good industry framework conditions, the Government will facilitate increased value creation. The tourism industry is important in order to maintain residence and contribute to value creation, among other things. in many scattered areas. In the follow-up to the Travel Life Communication, the brand construction of Norway as a destination is a priority task. This work is carried out by the Norwegian Tourism Council in cooperation with the tourism industry itself. Important areas of action include product and travel destination development, international profiling and promotion of Norway as a travel destination. Initiatives have also been taken to investigate models of how joint actions in the tourism industry can be financed. The travel industry must itself assess whether such models should be used. It is assumed that the tourism industry itself must manage and finance any such scheme. Business environments with many actors in the same geographical area can often indicate a high degree of competitiveness and growth. Within such regional value creation environments, labour, capital, information and ideas flow more easily. Improvements usually occur in an interaction between the enterprise itself, suppliers, customers, educational and research institutions and the public sector in general. In all parts of the country, such high-growth regions with high levels of competence and industrialisation exist. By cultivating one’s own advantage and developing what is already good, many regions in Norway will have good prospects for the future. In order to achieve our overall housing objective, we will facilitate growth-intensive regions and strengthen the role of regional centres, among others. by: maintain a more active urban and regional policy linking each region further together the communication skills environment through training and researching an offensive governmental localisation policy strength within the municipality as a regional development actor. The city is the centre of power in major interlinked areas of work, housing and service. Close interaction with the rest of the world, both in terms of industrial relations and commuting, enhances urban growth. This interaction will be supported by the Government. We will support the central role of cities as an engine in regional development. We're working on a big city message that will address the big cities' special challenges and roles. Not only are we concerned about how big cities can deal with their social problems and create better child-growth conditions, we are also concerned about how cities can best interact with their local communities and the rest of the country. The metropolitan message will be submitted early next year. Functional and efficient transport solutions are essential for inter-regional and inter-regional interactions, thus triggering the growth potential around the country. Norwegian businesses, in particular districts, have a longer distance from European markets than many competitors. The government will therefore ensure good transport solutions throughout the country and in relation to the rest of the world. District and regional policies will be among the key priorities of the next national transport plan in 2004. The Government will ensure a good framework for aviation in Norway. The whole country must have a good flight offer at the lowest price possible. It's not least important in North Norway. The government will maintain well-functioning regional airports but assess some sites with low socio-economic profitability. The Ministry of Transport has asked the Swedish Aviation Agency to look at the possibilities for a more flexible charging system for aviation. This will allow several companies to establish routes in Norway and stimulate increased competition and lower prices. In order to maintain socially important – but economically unprofitable – transport services, we will continue to purchase services, not only in aviation but also by the NSB. The new structure of the Post Office is an offensive investment in increased availability and improved service provision, among others. through the establishment of several postal points. A much larger scope of postal services – driven by, inter alia, The post itself, shops and public service offices – will provide a more flexible and better postal service. The State will continue to ensure good access to postal services throughout the country through the requirements of the concession to the Post and state purchases of business-unprofitable postal services. The telecommunications sector has experienced a downward trend that has benefited not least from District Norway through better services and lower prices. On the other hand, many municipalities have experienced job losses as a result of conversion and market adaptation. The development of broadband is now central. A better organised public demand shall provide dragon support, but otherwise development will be based on profitability and competition. In order to ensure accessibility in areas where competition and public demand do not extend, we will consider introducing exceptional measures. More and more training and education, information and communication are taking place using data and the Internet. Online offers are used in continuing education and small schools connect to larger ones in order to provide a fuller range of services. The government proposes that adults should be able to take training at or near their home location to a greater extent than in the past. In order to promote high-growth regions and business environments, education and research policies need to support under regional structures and advantages. The changes in the Law on Universities and Universities we are now presenting will extend autonomy to the institutions. This will increase their ability to adapt to regional assumptions and needs. The new legal text stimulates active interaction between the institutions and regional economic and social interests and underlines the responsibility of the institutions for continuing training in their fields of competence. The government provides for a much more offensive policy of locating government tasks, including state supervision, than the previous governments. With today’s communications and the expertise available in Norway, there are few government tasks that now need to be located in the capital. In some cases, in order to strengthen the independence of supervision, this may be an advantage away from central authorities. Other government tasks could also over time benefit from a location outside Oslo in both operations and investments. Moreover, by geographically allocating the tasks of the State, we want to strengthen the already existing areas of competence and provide the basis for increased regional growth. The government, through state localisation policy, will contribute to the development of regional growth centres throughout the country. A large proportion of public service production in hospitals, police, courts, equality authorities and employment offices is targeting user groups locally and regionally. In the conversion of such businesses, we will focus on the availability of users. Public service offices and electronic management shall act as user-oriented gateways across departments and levels of administration. It's set at $30 million. for further efforts to establish public service offices. With these means, we want to contribute to the development of a variety of models and solutions adapted to local circumstances and the needs of different user groups. An important principle of the Government is that decisions should be taken as close as possible to those relating to them. Therefore, the Government will to a far greater extent decentralise decisions relating to the use of regional and regional policy instruments at regional level. In order to strengthen the regional partnership, we will also consider increased delegation to different government sectors. From 2003, the county councils, together with the regional partnership, will give priority to the use of resources for different purposes. We believe it is right that the elected regional level should be given responsibility for using the money in line with political objectives set out in the County Plan. This level will then be responsible for the results achieved. In order to be a good developer, the county must be an active organiser, partner and promoter of new solutions. Municipalities must give full emphasis to user-friendliness and participation. The county councils are to develop regional development programmes in committed partnerships with businesses, medium-sized enterprises, private organisations and municipalities. Not least, they must work closely with the business community, where business also contributes. With its broad strategic responsibility and organisational function, the county councils must also work closely against the industrial tool. Even if we succeed in an active regional policy, there will still be a need for specific measures aimed at local communities, regions and parts of countries with weaker growth rates. On the basis of this type of action, we will establish a total cost principle which provides us with a broader assessment basis and which clarifies whether individual actions produce the desired societal impact. In order to strengthen the framework conditions in some areas, several schemes are geographically differentiated. The geographically differentiated employer’s fee is of the utmost importance. The government attaches great importance to maintaining this scheme. We will also assess whether there are several general schemes that should be differentiated geographically. Currently, a selection of experts is working to assess the regional and regional policy impacts of different actions. When results are available, it will be appropriate to follow up with a politically complex district commission. Such a Commission may be further updated if it is difficult to continue the differentiated employer fee to an adequate extent. Northern Norway has long been a priority in regional and regional policy. Overall, the national population has been slightly weaker than the rest of Norway, and the framework for economic development is in many ways more difficult, with widespread population and long distances to the market. The government will continue to deploy additional resources in North Norway and strengthen the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone. We are now reviewing the use of the instrument. A strategic analysis of the action zone will be completed in the summer. It will then be assessed and followed up in the state budget for next year. We have received the connection of Stortinget to the development of the Snow White field. The Government has reviewed the project in order to ensure important environmental and fisheries considerations and, with this development, will set an environmental standard for the use of petroleum reserves in vulnerable Arctic regions. The Snow White project is the largest industrial effort in North Norway over time, with total investment estimated at 40 billion in 2001. Not only during the deployment phase, but also during the operational phase, the project will involve many interesting tasks, and the interest in getting work here is very high. In addition, there are significant subcontracting activities, which are in the position of the Nordic business community to compete. The importance of snow-white development for creating regional activity and optimism, not least for the development of Finnmark and North Norway, can hardly be overestimated. For Northern Norwegian suppliers, the project will also be able to open the way into a growing market as Russians expand their activity in the Barents Sea. However, the Snow White tax package has been filed with ESA, which has created new uncertainties about the project. The government will facilitate the development of Sami business. This is particularly true for Sami culture-based businesses or contributing to the development of traditional Sami areas. The government will stimulate adaptive, economically and ecologically sustainable activities, which are based to a lesser extent on public support, through increased freedom for nutritionists. Through the reindeer management agreement and a dedicated value creation programme, we will facilitate increased value creation in reindeer management. Sustainable industries are necessary for continued cultural development. We will also help to ensure that Sami nutritionists do not encounter structural barriers in the meeting between legislation and Sami traditions, culture, customs and languages. The pooling should be part of the regional partnership where it is natural. The government will pay special attention to outlying municipalities and small communities with a high distance from regional centres, with a problematic economic structure and a decline in the population. In such areas, it is particularly important to ensure access to services, to exploit local opportunities and to take care of the values associated with society. Through its own small-scale community initiative, the Government will contribute to ensuring welfare and service provision, to designing educational provision, to stimulating action in agricultural policy and to addressing specific efforts against young people. As mentioned, there are also smaller communities that are viable. These will continue to be of high priority through the use of selective measures. We will be able to continue to deal with specific measures in municipalities and regions affected by large and unforeseen closures. In connection with the structural changes and closures in the defence, the size of the deposit for the conversion period has increased to 250 million. kr in means of conversion to municipalities affected separately. My department is implementing and monitoring this conversion effort. Municipalities will be given a central role in the priority of the means of conversion. The choice of place of residence is not just a question of job offers. Studies show that people place considerable emphasis on the quality of residence when choosing their place of residence and that residence preferences change over the course of their lives. Municipalities are responsible for overall planning at local level and for providing the population with adequate services in the fields of culture and leisure, growth, school, health and care. In the competition for attracting and holding people of different ages, the quality of such offers could be crucial. Not least, it is important that municipalities try to meet the young people’s wishes and dreams of a good life. Districts do not have the same diversity of cultural and leisure services as cities. But by listening to the youth and letting them into matters that affect them, the municipality can help to give them a connection to the home that lasts into adult life. The government will strengthen municipal autonomy. By decentralising responsibilities and tasks, municipalities shall be given greater freedom to choose for themselves how to organise and design their own services, dispose of transfers from the country and work to increase their revenues. We will reduce the earmarking of state resources and reduce and simplify state legislation towards the local government sector. The government also proposes that municipalities retain more of the gains achieved by improving efficiency. Through the Sem Declaration, the Government has committed itself to strengthening the municipal economy and continuing to increase the income of municipalities. In the coming years, we will make several important changes to the municipal income system. A share of the corporation tax must again be due to the municipalities. It is necessary to establish criteria for the distribution of corporation tax which gives a fairer distribution of corporation tax than previous arrangements. We're currently investigating different models of this. The Government will stress that municipalities have a primary responsibility not only for service production and other primary tasks but also for their own development. The basis for growth and development is local. Municipalities with high economic growth are characterised by entrepreneurial culture, cooperation and capacity for innovation, while being integrated into larger regional business environments. Municipalities that are concerned with their own future need to address these challenges themselves. Together with business, they need to find out what can make the municipality more entrepreneurial, what regional alliances and structures should be built and how innovation and entrepreneurship can be stimulated. They must also assess whether cooperation or, where appropriate, association with other municipalities can be an appropriate strategy. Norway has a rich potential for success. The country is characterized by optimism. I meet many communities with faith in my own ability to create a good future. The regional and regional policies of the Government shall underpin this optimism. The conditions for growth and development shall be improved. Individuals, enterprises, municipalities and counties must be given greater freedom to shape their own future. The government will provide good conditions for those who want to create something new, we will connect cities and countries more closely, and we will support under the regional growth force that exists in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e400	The President will propose that the presentation by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e414	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Labour Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e423	There has been disagreement as to whether the State would take over the hospitals. However, the majority of the population said yes to this through the treatment of Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001 on the Health Enterprises Act, etc. , cf. Inner. O. No 118 for 2000-2001. The majority of the population also adopted the procedures for taking over the hospitals, and the government must, of course, comply with the law. I would like to remind you that the Christian People's Party was involved in proposing that negotiations be conducted individually with each municipality, which has been rejected. I would also like to remind you that both the previous government and the current government have had as their main principle the settlement of the county councils having sufficient financial capacity to handle their remaining tasks after the hospitals have been transferred to the state. In Document No: 8:26 it is proposed that the Government submit final settlement proposals between the State and the counties as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget. This is then also announced by the Government, and in this way it could in many ways look as if the proposal turned into open doors. But Document No. 8:26 refers to many requests from county councils and points to possible unfortunate rashes. Discussions as a background for final settlement are necessary. Some of the proposers should perhaps be involved in supporting the proposal for negotiations with each municipality. The Committee points out that the Government has stated that particular consideration will be given to whether the economic settlement has given particular negative results in relation to certain municipalities. I would like to point out in particular that the host states of the old regional hospitals may seem to have come out poorly. In my own home state, Troms, the model that was built on the basis of the previous government, and which was adopted by the majority of the population, has turned negative. The stencil extract does not match the reality described in the county. In the health region of Nord, Hålogaland health companies have been asked to save 40 million. kr. The proposal to close the maternity ward in this company has raised violent protests, including from the users. Proposals have also been made for the closure of the Psychiatric Centre in South Troms. It will have enormous negative consequences, mainly for patients, but also for the professional community. Such things cannot be accepted in the wake of the reform. In the context of the economic settlement, the entire Committee stresses that the county must have a basis for fulfilling its tasks in an acceptable way. This assumption must form the basis for a fair final settlement for the specialist health service between the State and the county municipalities. The right, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party will await the treatment of the revised national budget, but points to the need for a fair and fair settlement with the county council. The Committee also refers to the private non-profit organisations that have been part of public health plans. I'm glad that the entire committee concludes that there has to be an equivalent treatment of these. Document No The 8 proposal and the settlement are also about property transfers, and far on the way, they have found their practical solution. However, the Committee has been concerned that there should be no legal dispute on the part of the State, and stresses that it would be particularly unfortunate if different levels of administration should be brought into legal dispute. It has been central to the Committee to underline what has been said in the past about the need to show liberality. An overall committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes, and that is also the recommendation of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e446	From the beginning of the new year, the government assumed responsibility for most of the specialist services, including: the county hospitals. That would normally not have resulted in any new case in Stortinget. When Document No: 8:26 for 2001-2002 however, there is a strong factual basis for this. In fact, many county councils have accumulated deficits that are largely due to the operation of hospitals and other specialist health services for which the state now has sole responsibility. It has never been the intention of the county councils to suffer financially when the state assumed responsibility for most of the specialist services. Therefore, the issues we are now discussing are a testament to whether there should be a reliable relationship between the state and the regional level of government. The Labour Party believes that even in this matter one must build trust between levels, not create unnecessary tensions and sips of conflict. The case has two main elements: an economical provider and a transfer of property. Some roadside transfers of property from the county councils to the state have found their solution. But there is still some dissatisfaction between the state and a majority of the county councils about parts of the property mass. The contradictions are clear both in terms of legal understanding and in terms of the assessment of the negotiating situation. A majority in the Grand Duchy have previously stressed the need for the State to show a liberal attitude to the negotiations with the county councils on the transfer of property. A collective municipal committee reminds us of this and encourages the government to extend far in order to reach agreement with the county councils. In writing to the Municipal Committee, the Central Association of Municipalities has expressed its views on the matter and has expressed its views on the matter.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is KS’s view that the Ministry of Health in its interpretation of the Health Business Act goes beyond the framework for which the law provides instructions.’ In the same letter of 18 March 2002, one concludes: ‘However, all proposals for concrete solutions from county councils have been rejected by the State and the Ministry of Health, in its opinion, has not shown much interest in reducing the number of cases and county councils under consideration.’ In the light of the sharp reactions of the Municipal Councils and the Municipal Committee, I would like to challenge the Minister of Health, possibly the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, to comment on the matter. Are members of the Government dissenting in the leadership that a majority of the Storting has previously given, cf. Inner. S. No 326 for 2000-2001, and the assessment expressed by the municipal committee in the vote we are now discussing? The main question in this case is the financial statement between the State and the county councils. The accounts of the counties for 2001 have now been closed. The undercarriage varies a lot, but the main thing is that last year the hospital operations carried out by the county municipalities should be a great economic one. The central association of municipalities, in writing to the municipal committee, states that the State has to compensate for DKK 1.8 billion, which is the additional consumption in 2001. The accounts deficit in the counties has arisen in the specialist services in 2001. It's the clear message from the Municipality's Central Association. The large additional consumption leads to a larger debt or deficit, thus increasing future interest and debit costs for county municipalities. The consequences of this are reduced operational levels from 2002. Sickness is not just a county phenomenon. It is a fact that state hospitals have had significant excesses in the same way as the county authorities in recent years. The state hospitals have been subdued by the state through extraordinary vows. The deficits in county hospitals have not been fully compensated. This actual ratio must now be of great importance in determining the final decision. The majority of the municipal committee notes that there will be considerable negative consequences for the quality and scale of county services if a fair final decision is not given after the state has now taken over the specialist services. Fortunately, in our country we have a statutory right to further training for young people. In addition, the scope of this training is required in the different counties. In addition, the Storting has a statutory right to further training for adults. This also has implications for the dimensioning of training provision. From the new year, the training sector is clearly the largest in the counties. Consequently, continuing training is particularly damaging if county municipalities have to bear full financial responsibility for the deficit in their accounts in 2001. The Labour Party cannot accept that deficits in hospital operations last year will lead to the closure of educational provision in the counties in 2002 and later years. It will particularly affect professional services, which are the most expensive to operate. These include equipment which is significantly higher than in the general education provision. We know that part of our working life is struggling to provide skilled labour. The problem is particularly serious in some professions. It would therefore be very unfortunate if the State were to contribute directly or indirectly to the weakening of the recruitment of young skilled labour. The Labour Party will not participate in such a policy. If training provision is now removed due to economic constraints in the state, our districts will be particularly affected. The centralization will be enhanced. Youth in education must move from home to obtain further training to a greater extent than at present. It's a clear step back. This weakens the provision of welfare. In several countries it is now being worked to cut down on the number of classes in further training. Economics are forcing such a solution. My objections to such a policy have already been given far in the way. I would like to add the following: this will reduce the freedom of choice for young people to choose from. It is a step backwards – both for those seeking education and for society. In turn, this may increase the cost of training and retraining later in life. This is short-term policy. Research shows that the interest and motivation for an education have a great deal to say for the effort and the dividends. Pressing young people into education for which they are not motivated is unfortunate and unacceptable. The majority of the municipal committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party also point to the responsibility of the county councils for local and regional public transport. We are thinking about the construction and maintenance of county roads, county road ferries and school pillows. The transport system for disabled persons also falls within the scope of this activity. There is every reason to believe that collective provision can be a strong framework if the county authorities have to take responsibility for the deficits of the specialist services. Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are not included in comments that underline the value of county provision in education, culture and culture. It's not a good idea. It's not a good idea. The main object of these three parties is to wait on the Government. There is no evidence of much involvement in the matter. The municipal and regional ministers have expressed doubts about the willingness to achieve a fair final settlement for hospital operations. This happened when she spoke to the top state politicians at the government's contact conference at the end of February. Perhaps the Council of State can clear up the turbulence and doubt during the debate in the Storting today? The Labour Party argues that the Government is bringing an action for final settlement between the State and the county councils on the hospital operations in the revised national budget in May. Together with the majority of the municipal committee, we believe that former government deficits from the specialist services should not be included in the county budget from 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e499	Proposal to be made in Document No 8:26. on the final settlement between the State and the county councils as a result of the state's acquisition of the hospitals, might remind you a little about kicking in open doors. Already in the context of the treatment of the 2002 municipal budget, the Government announced that, in the context of the revised national budget, an assessment of the financial settlement will be made as a result of the state acquisition of the specialist health service. Here it will be assessed whether the economic settlement has given negative results in relation to some county municipalities. The issue will clearly also have to be a theme in the 2003 municipalproposition. There is no need to underestimate the fact that the economic settlement between the former and current hospital owners has been complicated. In particular, most county municipalities find it problematic that deficits they had in hospital operations in 2001 have to be included in 2002. It will have to have implications for the ability to solve remaining county tasks, such as: secondary education. I note that, in its opinion in this case, the Municipal Councils are positive that the Government has notified that, in the context of the revised national budget in 2002, it will provide a comprehensive review of the settlement between the State and the county municipalities. KS is also very concerned that the overall principle in the implementation of the State acquisition of the specialist health service was that the county municipalities, after the transfer, should have financial capacity to perform their remaining tasks. An overall municipal committee has also underlined that county councils must have a financial basis for doing their tasks in an acceptable way. This assumption must also provide the basis for a fair final settlement for the specialist health service between the State and the county municipalities. The right-wing members of the Committee, together with the members of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, have found it appropriate to await the examination of the revised national budget, and will return to the economic settlement between the State and the county municipalities during the discussion. However, we point to the need for a fair and fair settlement with the county councils, so that the objective of these municipalities being able to solve their remaining tasks becomes a reality. I am pleased to say that agreement has been reached between the State and the county councils in the case of nearly 95 pst. of the property subject to the acquisition of the specialist health service. Therefore, there is an overall committee that encourages the Ministry of Health to place considerable emphasis in its discretionary exercise on the previously expressed wish of the Storting to show liberality in the settlement of the county municipalities. I see that this has been and is a very demanding race, with a great disagreement in principle and a partly high level of conflict, and a process of heavy interests and different assessments of many properties, even though most of them have been agreed upon. Of course, it is important for the State as a hospital owner to clarify all the essential property issues related to hospital operations in a way that takes care of the functional needs and interests of the specialist healthcare service. User focus is a very good starting point, even when management levels disagree. In addition, an overall committee also points out that, in particular, different levels of administration are in legal dispute with each other. For the right, it is important in this situation to focus on the importance that the public at all times get the best possible hospital services, where the first priority is to save lives. The hospital reform is primarily an organisational change, which, hopefully, will provide better opportunities for residents throughout Norway. The consequence must not be that, at the same time, we are reducing the provision of higher education around the country. That is why hospitalization is important. And I actually have the full confidence that the Government has it quite clearly when the revised national budget is presented in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e516	The large and substantial difference between the majority of the Committee, consisting of the SV, the Workers’ Party and the Centre, and the minority, representing a majority in the Grand Duchy, is the fact that the majority of the Committee considers that previous hospital deficits should not be included in the county budget for 2002 and beyond. So there is still a large debt in county councils after state hospitalization, and that debt is largely settled in hospitals, which has been allowed to cancel the entire debt when they set up the new state enterprises. What kind of consequences are we going to see of this if we don't fix it? We're not going to see any consequences in health care. It is not that SV wants it, but the point is that this is a matter that is essentially about the secondary school. Only in my state, which is Hedmark, this is 140 million. kr remaining in debt. When we know that a class costs between 850 000 and 1.3 million. kr, it would mean 100 classes in high school if you were to remove all of this. Is there anyone who can imagine that? I have to say that I have called for the Education Council in this matter, because I wonder a little bit about where the educational policy visions of the Government are, when they see the whole of the policy they are now running, and when they have not yet managed to take a position that this debt that the hospitals have actually worked out has to be paid by someone other than students in high school. Because that's what's going to happen. SV is a serious school party, and for us it is a matter of course that the state should pay the bill and not send it to the youth around the country. We want the high school in the new millennium to be forward-looking, more modern, more diverse, more flexible, and also have room for adults who now have a right to education. So it won't be like this if the government doesn't choose a different solution than the one we've seen so far that they've been willing to do. There are many schools that need equipment for modern construction; there are very many parts of high school that need upgrading. If this deficit is not covered, the result will be a massive class cut and an investment drought in high school in the foreseeable future. It's not exactly an impressive strategy for those who call themselves school-friendly and business-friendly, because good school policy is also good business policy. It can’t be that you’re so cold that you’re going to sit still and see that high school gets such a serious break, and that so many young people in the future are being furious, just because you want to break the county council! I'm afraid so. Why has this debt now become as it has become? If you look at the management of hospitals that have now accumulated this debt, the government has not been particularly different in county hospitals than it has been in state hospitals. Every year, state hospitals, which have the same funding system, which have the same problems of keeping their operating budgets, receive additional appropriations in the Storting because they treat more patients and receive deficits. The counties have not been treated in the same way. The same applies to wage-earning schemes, which also have their balls on them and become expensive, because they need good pay settlements in the health sector. But the bill has to be paid, and neither the government has been willing to do it. In addition, SV has received a letter from the Minister of Health dated 22 March 2002 which shows that the Minister of Health is behind the increase in the treatment of patients in county hospitals that have been in place, and he also recommends that the new state enterprises should remain at such a high level of treatment in the future. This must mean that once patients have been treated in the county municipalities as well, they have had full political backing. It will also mean having both a moral and a political commitment to follow-up on this with funding, when it is believed that these health services have been necessary, and if you do not want the secondary school to enter the new millennium much worse equipped than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e529	There is an unusually strong signal from the Municipal Committee to the Government in this matter. We are so far not satisfied with the government's work in the declared between the state and the county councils when the government takes over the specialist services. First to the transfer of property. There's a collective committee saying: ‘The Committee is concerned that the level of conflict between the State and some county municipalities appears to be relatively high and urges the State of the Ministry of Health to try to resolve the disputes prior to or through consideration.’; In addition, the Committee comes with a multi-quote from Innst. S. No 236 for 2000-2001: ‘The majority would point out here that in the forthcoming negotiations with the county councils on the transfer of property, the State was called upon to show liberality in order to avoid future disputes in the judiciary.’ According to the Committee: ‘In the light of the above-mentioned Ministry of Health, the Committee calls on the Ministry of Health, in its discretionary exercise, to place considerable emphasis on the Stortinge’s desire to show liberality in the settlement of county municipalities. In the negotiations on the transfer of property, the Committee considers that the Ministry of Health should extend far in order to meet the counties. In this context, the Committee would again point out, in particular, that different levels of administration would be in dispute with each other in legal proceedings.’.» So to the bottom of the drift. The central party thinks of both the concern of what the Great Government has said before, and the concern for the future economy of the county councils in relation to the tasks that they have left to solve, suggesting that the Government has one choice: to sue for a clean and fair giver. In order to achieve this, the Government, which has committed itself both to the composition and the conditions of the individual county council and to secure resources for the remaining tasks and as part of the deletion of the debts that have now arisen. Unfortunately, the government seems to have contributed so far to building up the trust that should exist between the county and the government, instead of the strength that is most necessary. The municipal minister has repeatedly expressed doubts about the legitimacy of the county council and the ability of the county council to solve tasks. According to the letter from the KS of 18 March, the Minister of Health throughout the process has had the impression that the health care system for which to take over covers more assets than the KS mein laws provide guidance. According to the letter from KS of 2 April, the accounts deficit in the counties has been recorded in the specialist services of the counties. There can be no doubt about it now! The centre party cannot accept that the inhabitants of the county should now suffer in order for the county authorities to weaken their ability to solve their important remaining tasks, while at the same time allowing the state hospitals to cover their debts. It is now crucial that a good and decentralised secondary school is provided. We have to do with the government party that went to the elections to strengthen the quality of the school. It is also crucial that there is a provision of further training for adults around the country. There is a strong need to strengthen collective provision, to refurbish county roads, to provide a good and decent school-skying system and to strengthen the transport system for people with disabilities. It is unnecessary to recall both the responsibilities of the county councils when it comes to culture, regional development and, in particular, the remaining tasks relating to drug use and child protection. There is a multiple in the committee that goes under this stronger than the minority. The majority consists of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, but I also perceive that the minority is occupied by a good respondent. One must now be both blind and deaf if one does not understand that it is crucial to clear the debt and allow the county councils to solve their problems without having to pay for old debts. A clean and fair giver is now the only way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e560	I thought almost the previous speaker, the representative Meltveit Kleppa, had already started the debate on the presentation we had earlier today. It sounded kind of like that for a little while. But what Mr Kleppa concluded with, I think the whole committee is concerned about, namely that it is now going to be a fair and liberal settlement. You're also saying that in the setting, so I don't think there's any disagreement about that. The intention of this proposal was that the State should finalise its final settlement with the county municipalities and that it should be based on the 2001 financial statements. I also don't see any contradiction between the majority and the minority in the committee here. The only thing that can be said to be the difference is that the majority in the Chamber wants to take this settlement in relation to the revised national budget, because then it comes anyway. Of course, such a large area as this also requires a little time and space, and the majority in the Chamber would like that debate to be taken as a whole when it is revised. It is quite right that the representative from the Workers' Party says that the deficit in the county hospitals has not been covered 100 pst. - In close proximity. We can go back years to get confirmed. It is for this reason that the Progress Party has proposed in a number of contexts that the State should cover the deficit for each year. We've suggested that a number of times, without getting to it. The Party of Progress has not in any way reached a conclusion during the examination of this Document No. The 8th proposal. We will do that when it comes to the revised national budget. What is problematic here is whether we should go back further than in 2001. If a deficit arises from previous years, it is difficult to demonstrate whether it belongs to the specialist health service. But that some county councils have come out terribly crooked, we can prove that. It has multiple pages. It has to do with both the deficit in the specialist health service and the withdrawal in relation to future revenues. I think it's important that the Storting now looks at it. I also think that part of the debate should deal with the general economy of county councils, which is completely governed by the state. The income tax revenue of county councils is far from sufficient to cover the expenditure of county councils. It's always been like that, and it's probably going to be like that in the future. In practice, the state is agening the county budgets with State subsidies. The income levels of counties are therefore determined by budgetary decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. And this is where the Progress Party is trying to approximate this Document No. The 8 proposal and what's going to happen in revision, because the Progress Party is now the only party left that says in pure words that we want to put down the County Municipality. Then, of course, there will also be a basis for addressing this question. Firstly, we have a majority to get specialist health services to the state, but we also want to share the remaining tasks of the county municipalities between the primary municipalities and the state. It will be taken into account by the Progress Party in its further assessment. In conclusion, I would like to conclude in the debate today that the Progress Party has concluded in a way, it is going to be totally wrong. We will do that when the Government comes with the revised national budget, and when the actual figures and conditions are on the table, so that we have a greater opportunity to assess whether the Stortinget or the State will go in and cover the deficits back than 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e577	In the budget for the current year, presented in the autumn, the Government announced that it would return to the final settlement and the deficits in the county municipalities in the context of the revised national budget for 2002. Document No The 8 proposal envisages that we should come back to this at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2002. And we'll get back to this in the revised national budget for 2002. Therefore, I think that those who are standing here complaining that the government has not come back, have created hopes or have not been on the road in these areas, should consider that we are coming at the time we have notified them. We haven't created expectations that we'll be coming in earlier. One of the reasons is that the deficits and the accounts were not clear until March, and you need time to process these numbers. So I think some of the speeches in the debate so far are kind of based on the expectation that the answers would come at a time when it has never been said that the answers would come. We have always said that we are following the usual order of budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy. In the Storting, there is budgetary procedure once a year, in the autumn, and then a revision of the budget in the spring. Here it is about money, and it is related to the budgetary procedure. But there are seven days until the revised national budget comes, so I'm sure we'll have another opportunity to take the debate on the real content of it. I want to say that I agree with the objective of a fair and fair settlement for the county councils, and I think it is very important that they should be able to solve their remaining tasks. It is important for us to avoid that the supply of advanced education, culture, transport or other things in 2002 or later needs to be cut significantly due to hospital deficits in 2001. It also serves as a starting point for the work we are now doing in relation to the revised national budget. I want to remind you that the Stoltenberg government made some choices regarding mechanisms to deal with this settlement. One of the choices was to allow deficits to be converted into long-term debt, and to be transparent in relation to the various grants that have been granted, among others. for holiday pay, in order to be able to use this as a relief over time. This means that there are more possibilities and means of achieving the objective of fair and fair settlement with county municipalities. One of the instruments is a one-off commitment to cancel debts. The second is a framework increase that enables county councils to serve the increased debt as a result of the deficit, so that it does not affect the activities – since the county councils have already allowed this to be converted into long-term debt. We will carry out in the revised national budget an assessment of both the size of the deficit situation, what is relevant to the hospital sector, and the necessary measures to ensure that the county municipality's services are not affected. There are some things that it's important to say. KS has not yet presented final accounts figures. They're preliminary, and they've been adjusted downwards since the first numbers were presented. It is true that the specialist health service has the primary responsibility for the poor performance in 2001, but in many counties child protection has greater exceedances relative to the share of the specialist health service and exceedances vary between counties. What I said at the meeting to which the representative Sandal referred was that it is a cross of thought that those who have really run the last year, should possibly come worse out of a settlement than those who have failed to rule. Some of the county councils have failed to rule in the last year. I think it is important that in the case of transitional arrangements of this kind, where tasks have been moved – and not least because we are ahead of moving other tasks – we are also clear in the transitional year that those responsible should actually manage the service they are responsible for during that period. Based on the mechanism introduced by the Stoltenberg government for the treatment of deficits, I think it is important to see what the real effect is, for example. for secondary schools. So with the deficits that now seem to be SEK 1.5 billion, it's going to cost 100 million annually. kr for the sector. It's equal to 0.6 pst. of the operational costs of secondary education. So the drama should perhaps be downplayed, while I emphasize what I've said before: we're busy getting a fair settlement. In the case of property transfers, it is such that some of these matters would be dealt with by consideration, that was in the arrangement that had been dealt with. The government wants the least degree of conflict. The government is working to get as many cases as possible for non-treatment. However, some cases, after the system outlined in the hospital transfer, will go to consideration, and there may be disputes at the end. For the government, it is important that we provide the least possible of these, but that does not mean that we should not treat the county councils in terms of equality. Some county municipalities have conflicts in areas in which other county municipalities have granted the State the right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e595	It seems to me that it was hard for the government to come to Stortinget to contribute to a clean-up in the economic part of the acquisition of the hospitals. After all, it is the deciduous largest single establishment in the public sector that is now being transferred from county level to state level. Then the State cannot leave an unpaid bill to the county. I think that should be obvious. My point and the Labour Party point is to ensure that the part of the business remaining in the counties can be carried on properly. In the proposal, we made it clear that the accounting figures were important to have on the table, but it was quite clear early that there were significant amounts in the deficit. I think the Council of State minimized the impact of this deficit on the current county municipality. Is the Council not concerned about drawing a billion-dollar deficit into the 2002 budget? The county councils have to deal with today. This means that if they are to have a balanced economy, they will have to do something about their operations related to higher education, adult education, road construction and maintenance, county holidays, local and regional public transport and culture. And what kind of message is the Council of State giving the county councils today in the situation they're actually in?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e605	It is not the least heavy for the government to come back to what the government has promised, at the time when the government has promised to come back to the matter. And it's in the revised national budget. As I have said, the accounting figures are not quite clear yet. We have indications of the size of the deficit, and that is SEK 1.5 billion. So the question of involving this in 2002. We have said that we do not want this deficit to affect the activity in 2002 or later years in the county municipalities. So we want to figure out a way to get a solution. I would also like to remind you that the solution to this settlement, generally taken into account by the Stoltenberg government, was that the deficit of this type could be converted into debt over 15 years. So it's not $1.5 billion to be cut in the 2002 budget, that's the financial cost of this amount. It amounts to approx. One hundred million. kr. I find it strange in many ways when the Workers' Party itself now does not take on the fact that the choice they made of mechanisms, in fact, does not make the meaning as big as the deficits are supposed to be. But once again, I stress that the Government's intention is to ensure that we still have a good high school system, that we can continue to bet on public transport – we have just submitted a new collective message, we want to bet more on public transport – and we will take this into account in relation to what activity should be in county municipalities. We are also concerned about taking into account the steering signals we give in relation to changes in the division of tasks, including: because we have a discussion about drugs, and we have a discussion about child protection. Should this change, it is important to say that it is not free for all counties to release during the transitional period. Then we give a very unfortunate signal, especially to the very tidy county councils that have now actually run the last year, and therefore have made sure that the deficits haven't become so big there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e619	The council says that someone has run, and someone has not run. I kind of want to turn the problem around and look at those who have run, but who have exactly the same big problems. So without mentioning the counties, we can't just discuss what's going on about deficits in relation to the operation of the specialist health service. In fact, some states have used large amounts of their own resources from power companies or whatever they may be, and put them into the specialist health service, with the result that when the State takes over the specialist health service, it uses the budgets that the county authorities themselves have had when withdrawing funds. This means that some counties have received significantly greater resources than they have previously received from the country to use in the specialist health service. Then my question is: will the Council of State and the Government of the Revised National Budget also consider the issue and, if necessary, find solutions for the municipalities that already this year are losing a lot of money on the acquisition made by the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e626	I believe that in order to go into detail in all areas, I have to go to the revised national budget and the municipal bill – because it also depends a little on how much money there is. I just want to remind you that in the agreement that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party had on the model of extraction, 200 million were added. Extra kroner. I remember that it was the two parties that were behind the extraction system that we have today, and the choice of methodology that was made in connection with hospitalization. There it was added 200 million. kr extra in the discretionary pot, as explained by the fact that a particular aspect of the extract should be considered. from Nord-Trøndelag, who works in an energy company. Now the problem is that there are quite a number of county municipalities that have energy resources inside their county economy. Initially, there were two states that had notified this as a theme in connection with the extraction. Oslo has large ownership income, and both Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane have power incomes that generally go into the county economy. It is difficult to change large-scale extraction methodology principles. Therefore, for us in any case, it would be a discretionary assessment of the situation because there have been extraordinary revenues for some years, so it gives us the basis for having to go in and for example. the discretion of the county councils provides additional support to some of them. I don't think we can now go in and do a complete conversion of what was a compromise between two parties that are then not in government, in relation to how the settlement was to be done and the deficit treatment was to be. We are not going to allow for a full new treatment of the economy of county municipalities over the next five years, based on how much is going to be spent on hospital reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e633	First, until the claim that some county councils have been tidy and others have obviously been immoderate and used too much money. Is it the case that the Council of State believes that some of these county hospitals have treated too many patients, and can the Council of State say what this is about? Can the Council of State also explain why it is that when state hospitals behave in exactly the same way, namely, do what is their job, treat patients, then they should be refunded their operating excess crowns for crowns, largely, while this principle has been completely invalidated in relation to patients who have needed treatment in county hospitals? So to the last point: the Council of State was in its last line on some principles for how this was going to happen. That's what I think was useful. Because that's the principles of what's going to be covered, it's interesting to say something about now. And it's true that it was a very bad setup, what the Progress Party and the Workers' Party went into last year. But the problem here is that the Right Party and the Christian Party had a different view. They are now in government, and what is the reason why no better and more correct principles can be drawn up, which could have given a security in this debate, which would have made it possible to sit around and not dare to invest in high school, not dare to plan the classes they really need, not dare to plan to give adults advanced education where they are in line? For example, why is this so? impossible to say that one should not have as a principle that one should not deduct with deficits from previous hospital operations into 2002? If so, what would be difficult or wrong with such a principle? At the contact conference with the county councils in ours, the councils thought about sharing the debt between the county councils and the one who had settled the debt. Is this a principle that the Government has completely abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e642	This gives me the opportunity here to clean up something that has been a misunderstanding after my lecture at the contact conference with the county councils. There I showed a plan for the sharing of the deficit – that was the division of the accumulated deficit from 2000 to 2001, which is part of what the Stortinget has agreed to in connection with the municipal proposition last year. It was an arrangement where the deficit that had been accumulated in 2000 was divided between the state and the county after the plan that was shown at the time. We have not yet taken a decision on how the sharing of the deficit should be now. I want to say in terms of management: it's not just about patient treatment. It's about, for example, that there has been quite a lot of equipment purchase at the end of the year, where many have said: it is fine, now the state takes over. Some have invested a lot in the purchase of new equipment at the end of the year, while others have not, because they have remained within the budget framework. The deficit has been raised on various issues, not just in relation to patient treatment. But as I said, we're coming back to these questions. When it comes to the question of why we did not go for what we agreed to before the summer, it is also answered in the context of the discussion and debate on the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs. There is something about time going on and you have come a long way in the treatment: a system that we in the other parties agreed on, which was about to have an arbitration solution – one was supposed to use arbitration as a solution in the distribution of the further economy – we thought that the time had passed when we had come four months longer and it was two and a half months before the budget for 2002. In that process, we did not have time to have uncertainty about the financial framework in the future. Now the uncertainty is in one element, and that uncertainty is therefore in relation to the budget of the year and a cost of capital of 100 million. kr. We will return to that in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e651	From the Right, today the expression «to kick open doors» has been used about the Document No. The 8 that we have to deal with. The Council of State has wondered why this proposal is being made. I thought that both the way in which the Minister of Local Affairs and the Minister of Health behaved in addition to the spring and the debate today makes it clear that it has been necessary to present this proposal. In connection with the budgetary work, the Central Party asked a question, question 154, to the Ministry of Finance, where we received an answer: «The Government will make an assessment of the financial settlement in the revised national budget for 2002 as a result of the state acquisition of the specialist health service, including an assessment of any undue impact on individual county councils.» My first question to the Council of State will be: What contact has it actually been with the municipalities? For there is also a question in the county councils in relation to the lack of contact which causes this Document No. The 8 proposal is on the agenda. So actually, as I see it, the situation in which the county councils today are, that KS has calculated a deficit of $1.5 billion, maybe $1.8 billion. She minimizes the cost of capital of 100 million. kr in year. My question will then be: does the Council see the difference between using the means to pay off debt rather than now being able to use the money to intensify efforts when it comes to continuing education, transportation and other tasks, which have suffered clearly in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e665	I perceive that the comments made by the head of the municipal committee related to my comments are not about the deficit situation, but that we have a discussion related to the division of tasks. I know there are many state politicians who don't like it. But I think it was also necessary anyway, in relation to the framework decisions that were taken last year, to have a new review of it, no matter how the conclusion had been. I have expressed my opinion little about the deficit situation, except at one time, where I stated quite clearly that the county councils should have a responsibility for the deficit, and that I would not give a blank mandate to cover it. It was in November last year, and there were still six weeks left in the budget year. To issue blank mandates from the state, where others are responsible and we take the bill, is very unwise. I have to say that one of the reasons why we should be more voting to give up deficits was the subsequent statements from the other parties, who then thought that we should give the blank mandate. Of course, there were no incentives for good management around the hospitals at the end of November and December. We are all actors in this, and the steering signals we send help to ensure that we do not always get good solutions. I think we should all take that responsibility inwards, including the opposition – also in relation to what was sent out of signals, as they were given at that time. I understand that someone needs to promote such a proposal in this regard, because the media had already issued the blank permit. When it comes to saying that I'm de minimis, I'm saying what's real. $1.5 billion in budget deficit means $100 million. kr in the 2002 economic activity limit, because this can be converted into long-term debt. It's not rhetoric, it's just the way the fact is. I'm busy with the 100 million. For example, there is no need to have an impact that will reduce activity in 2002. in the case of secondary or other good purposes for which the counties are responsible. But I think in one way that there are some people who have a significant crisis maximisation when it sounds in the posts here that you have to cut SEK 1.5 billion in the budget in 2002 because of the deficit. It is not the arrangement that has existed, either from the Stoltenberg government or from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e676	It surprises me that the Council of State expresses the fact that the county councils have almost failed to rule. I think that's a relatively eye-catching statement. The starting point for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV has been that the deficits accumulated may have a significant negative impact on the quality and extent of other county activities. Then I record that the Council of State refers to the possibility of converting this into a loan, and the effects for 2002. I also record that she forgot to explain that this is being converted into a loan, it also has effects for the following years – it is a natural consequence in that case. I have two questions anyway. Firstly, will the Government in the revised budget propose increased appropriations to counties to help maintain the activity and scope of the remaining county services? Secondly, if the Council of State states that this proposal opens doors, does that mean that the Council of State agrees with the proposal? And do the Council of State agree with the comments of the majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre? In this case, why is the government fraction not included in these comments? If there is anything in these remarks that the Council of State disagrees with, I ask her to explain it. To the extent that it should be something that she does not agree with, I assume that the open doors were not so open anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e691	As a former Minister of Finance would like to know, it is not common to publish the content of a budget proposal before the actual promotion of the budget proposal. With respect for my Minister of Finance, I will not publish the content of what is in the revised national budget until it has been through the Council of State and is finally the club of the Government. So to the question of governance. I have therefore said something much more nuanced than the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen said. I have said that some county councils have run well, and therefore they should not experience that they are not being rewarded for it, while others are being honoured even if they have not run well. In my opinion, it is county councils who, in this context, when you look at how and why the deficits have arisen, have not had good enough control in the final phase. So I think, as I said, that someone here in the hall should also include the effects of the incentives they gave in the last six weeks, which, of course, made it much more difficult for the county councils to govern in that period. So to the content of the setting. We agree on one thing. I perceive that both the minority and the majority believe it is important to ensure that the activity in county municipalities does not become harmful in the years to come in the case of secondary schools and others, because of the deficit in 2002. Then there are many other premises written into the setting that I do not want to take a decision on here. But we agree on the purpose, as I also said in my post instead, that the activity in secondary schools should not be drastically affected by the deficit situation in the county municipalities. The Government agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e703	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e721	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e730	One of the most difficult things has found a good and satisfying solution, in my view. The reactions to the new re-routing rules were massive. Long e-mails and letters to most of us showed that the individual responses could be untimely. Now there is a joint committee that asks the Government to pass on the transitional arrangements for all those who were in the process of being reinstated when the rule changes were implemented. It is not fair to change the gags in the middle of the game. And it's a struggle to start re-training/qualification when one has to stop working because of illness or injury. But society has an unmistakable benefit from the fact that most people are likely to get into work and out of a social security situation or disability, and so does the individual. If a scheme has been started with a given set-up, one should now be completed according to what was agreed. I guess that would just be missing. Two private suggestions will be processed together in this setting. Both proposals concern the new rules on readmission. But I want to make it clear that there was a broad majority that in the spring of 2000 changed the readmission rules. So this is a common responsibility for this hall. The background was the strong increase in the number of unemployees in recent years, and the desire and need for the highest possible participation in the labour market. The principle of the new rules is to a great extent good. Those who used to get at least, only 1 G, approx. $50,000 is going to get 1.6 G, which is going to be about $50,000. NOK 80000. But this led to the loss of support for others, for those who had received the most. However, it was a strong wish that the rules and rules on day-to-day pay under unemployment should be more co-ordinated. The proof of need for the care plug-in was discontinued. Instead, a children’s supplement — just as modest — and support for child care was introduced. Some of the problems, which in turn have led to massive protests, have been linked to practical difficulties at Aetat. Customs duties with registration cards and delays are the responsibility of the public. And we decided today that mistakes made by Aetat should be compensated when they have led to documented extra costs. Now the messages are that the problems are significantly reduced – fortunately. However, the Committee calls for an evaluation of the notification card system. Similarly, the Committee asks the Government to evaluate the legislation for enforcement in its own case. Special attention should be given to people who support children. The propellant is a message in any case, and has nothing to live in luxury. Therefore, the Committee is busy with the possibility of a certain amount of freedom. It is positive in the Committee's view, both because the individual can then influence his or her own financial situation, and because people in return can have some contact with the labour market. Of course, we see the danger that a lot of extra work will be able to go beyond the recycling process. But 1.6 G is not a lot to live on, so the Committee asks you to consider raising the minimum rate of output. The Committee also stresses that the new systems, such as: Use of the notification card, needs to be adapted to the user's situation. Exemption from the obligation to notify must be possible without the big discussion, if necessary. We humans are different. What for most of us is a trifle, like completing a form, can be insurmountable for others. Public legislation must also be flexible. It's useful. The aim of this is to maximise the functioning of society and the labour market. Rules and schemes exist for as far as possible to achieve that goal. One saves itself if the re-routing rules aren't enough for people to run, and think enough to make an extra effort to get through the tunnel and get into active work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e760	The working party supports mainly the Ot content. pp. No 48 for 1998-99. The aim then was that the benefits should be considered essentially as a benefit equal to unemployment benefits – i.e. a short-term benefit – and not as disability and old age benefits. When the rule change was announced in the media early last December, the Labour Party sent a letter to the Council of State asking for a postponement of the changes in the rules, because we saw clearly that the change in the rules would have an unfortunate impact on many groups. Such a postponement would not be accepted by the Council of States. After a few days, many and strong reactions came to the Storting about the unfortunate effects of the changes in the rules. The new rules, combined with the downsizing and new computer system in Aetat, led many who were undergoing rehabilitation and rehabilitation to experience a particularly difficult situation. Some said difficulties related to filling out the notification card, and others about major delays in payment. Many received great reductions in their performances. Several benefit recipients informed that they had now had such a major financial problem that they decided to cancel the recovery plan and also to apply for disability benefit. Several also had to go the heavy road to go to the social office to get help. Such feedback was absolutely necessary. Therefore, the Workers' Party shall produce a Document No. 8-proposals, so that you can get a quick review of the current unlucky rash. When the goal is to achieve a more inclusive working life, and that is the aim of all of us, we do not have to establish a regulatory framework that actually leaves some people out of work. If we are serious about investing in poverty prevention measures, we cannot weaken the means we have. The rule change and a new computer system in Aetat required considerable extra effort from the labour market. In addition, when the department's budget was weakened, with reorganization, efficiency and downsizing as a result, it is not difficult to understand that there was a problem in providing users with good help and guidance. Today, more than 70,000 people are reintroducing. It's over 10 pst. more than the situation a year ago. In addition, there is a trend towards increasing unemployment. This means that the users are waiting longer in line, the amount of growth and the workload for the case handlers is going to be enormous. More offices report large increases in the number of sick messages. I am pleased that there is now a great deal to do quickly. Governments should go through the legislation thoroughly as soon as they are advised, so that they can correct unlucky and unintended outcomes. Furthermore, it is important to continue the transitional arrangements for those who were on 1 January 2002 in the process of being reintroduced, and that those who are able to demonstrate additional costs due to shortcomings or errors on the part of Aetat will be compensated for these additional costs. This compensation should also apply to those registered for re-entry after 1 January 2002. The Labour Party also believes that it is important to have flexible arrangements for exemption from the obligation to notify. There may be many reasons why individuals should be exempted from the obligation to notify. In addition, the message cards must be designed in such a way that no one can misunderstand how the cards are to be filled. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the Government review this too quickly. In addition, payments must be made in a quality manner so that the beneficiaries are paid in good time. The consequences of the loss of household expenditure and the possibility of free income must also be assessed more closely. I'm not going to make it a habit to give praise to political opponents, but here I find reason to commend the case-speaker for bringing forward an attitude that has brought together the Committee in good and important comments and suggestions for decisions. This may cause more people to see a little more light in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e779	The admission is granted to persons who are unable to continue their work due to illness, injury or negligence but who, after re-training or qualification, will be able to take other work. There is a cross-political consensus that it is particularly important for those who have to leave their work due to illness to be offered and to carry out a rehabilitation scheme. Recruitment is positive for the individual who implements and manages to get back to work, and it is socio-economically profitable. Unfortunately, it is often forgotten. The size was decided upon in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 48 for 1998-99 to amend the rules on the calculation of rehabilitation and recovery benefits under the Law on Social Security. The two benefits were no longer to be calculated in accordance with the rules on disability pension. Instead, benefits should be calculated on the basis of pensionable income, as in the case of daily allowances. The main points were: The minimum annual benefit for rehabilitation and resettlement allowance is proposed to be set at 1,6 G. The current allowance is made up of spouse allowance and child supplement and is need-tested. The ‘household cost benefit’ is proposed to be liquidated. Instead, a separate benefit for children’s supervision is proposed for participants in rehabilitation measures.This is designed to enable the labour market seat to take over the calculation of rehabilitation benefits, a task which is now in the Social Security Agency. Transitional rules are laid down so that, at the time of entry into force, beneficiaries can expect to retain approximately the same benefit for a reasonable period of time. And not least: the conversion is assumed to result in large simplification of the procedure and the release of administrative resources. There was a broad political consensus on the conversion. The right and SV were opposed to removing access to retaining income of 0,5 G before re-routing. The new rules for the calculation of rehabilitation and refurbishment fees entered into force on 1 January 2002. In Ot.prp. No 48 for 1998-1999, provision was made for transitional rules to ensure that beneficiaries will not be able to reduce their benefits when the new rules enter into force, while at the same time aiming to ensure that the social security system and the labour market seat do not have to maintain two different calculation systems for a long time in the future. If the benefits were higher in accordance with new rules, the recipient should be able to choose to switch to new legislation. Transitional rules would apply beyond the recovery period. The government also considered in the 2002 budget that transitional rules should be designed in such a way that when the new rules enter into force, persons receiving reintroduction benefits should not be reduced to net benefits. However, recipients of re-routing money would not be able to choose a higher performance if this had been achieved in accordance with new legislation. The introduction of the new regime has resulted in a high level of noise. This is because some beneficiaries have experienced a fall in the income of living, and Aetat did not do a good enough job in the conversion. Since then, the government has decided to allocate Aetat 15 million. Extra kroner. The decision has been taken because of serious signals from users, in particular in the context of the introduction of new legislation on reintroduction. In view of the problems arising from the conversion, the Workers' Party and the SV have each promoted their Document No. Eight proposals. I will – and this will be no habit – praise the opposition that, together with the government parties, has come up with solutions that will provide the basis for remedying the problems and facilitating the situation of the people who are in the process of reintroduction, among others. by maintaining the transitional regime, which was restricted to one year in 2002, for all those who were in the process of reintroduction at the date of entry into force of the amendment. Now we have to give Aetat a calm and with that an opportunity to solve the problems that the department is set to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e826	I think the case rapporteur was initially concerned about a significant point, and that was that we have a common responsibility for this. I also think that the setting is characterized by the fact that we all take responsibility for it. The proposers have addressed a significant problem here. It turns out that it is also useful for the weak in society to reach their message through lobbying – it may not be much to call it that – but at least we have responded to the signals that have come from those groups that have come out badly. The Progress Party must assume its responsibilities, because we were also part of the majority. Like everyone else, we have received a number of enquiries from people who feel unfairly treated here. The government has also been advised to do something along the way. I hope that the circular, as has been said, has been sent out to the social offices, can provisionally remedy the situation for those who are worst off. We have not received any feedback on this, but it is a hope that it can at least relieve us until we have received the decisions that we are making here today. What is clear is that we understand that it is perceived as unworthy that recipients of rehabilitation and rehabilitating money must go to the social office to speculate on income. Now, to be considered by the social services, it is also considerably more stringent. But of course, the Progress Party stresses that the aim of the 1999 Stortinget intention was to get as much work done as possible. It's more important than ever. We believe that it is important to facilitate the conditions to take out the residual labour force that may be present. Those intentions must remain firm. Therefore, in my view, the following priority must be given to: 1st@item: inlistbox It shall be profitable to work.2. Re-training of workers is to be profitable.3. Combining work and social security is to be profitable.4. It shall be profitable to return partially or wholly to the disabled. So we know that the alternatives to these points are disapprove. Therefore, the Progress Party also believes that it is now important to evaluate the new scheme, of course for the purpose of making it more attractive and getting people into the alternative points that I mentioned instead. When we get there, the Progress Party wants us to have an evaluation, that the Stortinget should also consider whether the arrangements for rehabilitation, medical rehabilitation, unemployment benefits, disability benefits and economic social assistance should be seen in the context, with a view to possible coordination and aggregation. I think this will remove some of the unfortunate outcomes that some of these schemes can make, while at the same time it could provide easier and faster procedures. There I would like to draw attention to the welfare options of the Progress Party, which point very closely in these areas. I also consider it necessary to draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party does not support the arguments or the view that reduced appropriations for Aetat are part of these problems. I find it a little strange that the Labour Party representative uses it as an argument, for the budget changes that happened in the case of Aetat, so when the negative signals came out, they didn't cancel out. Already on 2 January the users were ill out here, and then, of course, had not reduced the appropriations for Aetat turned on. So this would have come anyway. Nor will the Progress Party use this case as an argument that in the future Aetat will in some way be strengthened in relation to the resources. I think it is more important that we look at Aetat in terms of reorganisation and restructuring, and clarify what tasks and mandate Aetat should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e858	SV is very pleased that the two Document No. The eight proposals that were promoted have found a solution like this, and that we have been able to move on with the case and deal with it differently from what we have done before. SV was almost alone when we dealt with the matter in 2000, and I was the case rapporteur for it. I'm not going to say so much more about the kind of "What did we say?" because in the process we've had now, you've been responsive to what's come in – you've listened to people. The exact same signals came when we dealt with the proposition, and I have recently been sitting and browsing through the papers that the committee received at the time. It is a desire that both magnification and government when we make proposals for change can look with greater seriousness at the input both from the users and from those who are going to practice this out in the streets. Because there was no need for warnings that this was going to have a negative impact on many people. But I want to say that the conversion also helped to give those who had the worst benefits a boost. It's a promise that SV wants to underline is important, so we don't want to go back to the old scheme altogether. So we want a better system in total, where you have the resources and opportunities in focus, and not the problems. What has happened now is that a lot of people who have gone back to rehab have had such a bad economy that they have no power to deal with anything other than their own financial problems. And it is quite demanding to overcome both ill health and illness, and then get back to work. Then we have to make sure that along the way you have things to do with the rehabilitation, and not the bill base, in focus. We are very pleased that the transitional arrangements should be reintroduced – it is about acting properly towards those with whom an agreement has been reached. So you're going to have a setup that's like this and so on, and then you should be able to implement it as agreed. The fact that you also have to cover the expenses you receive if the government fails to meet its obligations should be obvious. In this context, it is also the case that these agencies should be given powers so that they can pay emergency money in situations where computer systems or other things click. I just have to say that I did not listen to the local radio for Buskerud at the latest today, where there are again reports that people who go on a daily allowance have not been paid their money in more than a month, simply because there is a fault and mess in the systems. We can't have it like that. This has to be cleaned up. So for the review of the legislation, which is the most important thing now. SV will encourage the Government to turn every stone and to focus on the resources and on the achievement of its objectives, namely that it should be possible to get the most out of work. It's the most important thing. And there, the Council of State has launched a total cost principle, looking at the total cost – for all parties – of the different solutions. In that case, a long-term perspective must also be taken into account and see what it is that pays, not just for one budget, but for the long term. There's no doubt that if people come to work, it's got a lot of socio-economic benefits. But sail if people don't manage to support themselves entirely from their jobs, but have to have the assistance of the public in addition, there are still values associated with what I think it's hard to calculate. At least I think you should try to look at it in a slightly different way than what you've done today. Then I just want to say in the end: when people who go to rehab – or people else – have to go to the social office, there are some rules there that force you to pass values to get help. That's what's the main problem with this. For example, you'll be. asked to sell the car half a year before you have to finish the refurbishment – and we can imagine sail, maybe that car is absolutely necessary in order for you to be able to have a job in the future, or maybe you are asked to sell your house and have to enter the rental market – expensive and bad for many! So there are some bindings to the legislation that are very inappropriate for those who are trying to carry out a rehabilitation and a rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e873	In this case, I'll be out with the distribution of roses. The centre party realized in January that the new rules had had an unintended effect. We listen to individuals who had been given a more difficult everyday life instead of strengthened opportunities, and we listen to case handlers in Aetat who confirmed a worrying situation. And while we in our small group were working on proposals, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party were faster out there: All pay for quick reaction! All the honors also to the case spokesperson from the Christian People's Party who got into the case complex and did not give up before such a good and wide solution as the one that is currently in the lead was really in the box. The decisions taken today by the Storting are in line with signals given by several of us in the early March inter-pelling debates. Unfortunately, the new rules have led to dissent and pessimism rather than to new incentives for contact with the labour market. We in the Center Party are pleased that a co-consultant committee proposes to pass on the transitional arrangements to all those who were in the process of reinstatement when the rules came into force, and we are no less pleased that the Government is asked to ensure that all those who have been delayed payments due to errors made by Aetat are compensated for documented extra costs. The central party agrees that the report card scheme is being evaluated and that exemption from reporting obligations is being practised in accordance with the intention laid down both by the previous government and by the Stortinget. As pointed out in the settings, disability and social, mental and practical problems may make it difficult to fill out report cards. Otherwise, we're going to stress that the government is going to be carefully reviewing these rules. I know that this has been a review before, and that many calculations have been made, and there have been many examples of how the legislation could be simplified. I want to underline what has been said earlier today, that when you now see how these rules have turned off, you have to turn all the stones around. It is also important for the Government to come back with this as a matter of its own if it should prove necessary – and at least make proposals for regulatory changes as quickly as possible. In the Center Party, we were held back in relation to free income. We now see that it can have its perfectly clear advantages. It can, of course, affect the economic situation of individuals, but it can also, in fact, stimulate more people to have a connection with the world of work. So we're some in asking the government to evaluate a limit of 2 G. What is important to keep in mind is that, of course, it was an element of a better system for many in the legislation that was proposed and adopted. The government must now have an eye for it in its review. The idea is to give more opportunities to strengthen self-confidence, to cope better with everyday life, to overcome illness and to try and stay in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e894	The purpose of the new regulation oncontributions was, inter alia, to: to stress that the benefits for vocational retraining are to be short-term benefits and that the aim of the return to work is to return to work. At the same time, there was a need for administratively simpler legislation, which was also easier to understand for each beneficiary. I think, as I have also said in the past in the Stortinget, that the new legislation essentially takes good account of these considerations – I would like to stress in particular. But I think we're going to find in retrospect that the conversion of the system was a correct conversion, and that the broad political consensus it was about the main features of this system is a political consensus that the Storting can be proud of. In the context of the introduction of the new legislation, a new treatment system was also put in place in Aetat and new procedures both for Aetat’s employees and for the beneficiaries of reintroduction benefits. This included, inter alia: use of a notification card. Since this was a new regime for persons reintroducing, Aetat experienced an increase in the number of contacts with the establishment during the first period of familiarisation. This resulted in a greater pressure on the workforce, and this meant that some users in this period received late payments as a result of bottlenecks in the system. I would like to express my regret that Aetat's users experienced reduced service during this period, and I am extra sorry that someone received benefits late. These problems have been mitigated, and the share of the notification cards that are now being returned due to errors or inadequate filling-in has been greatly reduced. So the situation is stabilizing at a normal level. I am very pleased with the unanimous committee position. The unanimity gives both the weight and the width of a device of the back-up work to be carried out by Aetat in constructive cooperation with others. I have noticed that the Committee proposes that those who have received late payments as a result of errors committed in Aetat should be compensated for documented additional costs they have incurred as a result of such mispayments. I have already told Aetat to develop such a system. I have also recorded that the Committee is in favour of continuing the transitional arrangements for all those who were at the date of entry into force of the amendment. This is a good general principle, and it will be followed up in budgetary work. Furthermore, the Committee has several proposals and comments on the new legislation which, in my opinion, it is appropriate to look at. The Ministry is now evaluating the whole of the new legislation, and this review will focus on the same issues on which the Committee is concerned, for example: how different groups come under new legislation. In addition, the Ministry will evaluate the design of the notification card for recipients of reintroduction fees. In this respect, the Ministry will also assess the concrete views of the Committee in order to make the legislation more appropriate for returnees to work. The results of all these assessments will be taken into account by the Stortinget through the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget proposal for 2003. In order to ensure the future creation of value and the further development of our welfare systems, high levels of professional participation are important. The agreement on an inclusive working life is an important contribution here. I note that the Committee's position also emphasises high levels of professional participation by stressing that people who are out of the labour force for various reasons must have opportunities to participate in the labour market. In order to ensure the success of the work of re-entering the labour market, it is important that the legislation is properly designed. However, the legislation alone does not determine whether we will succeed in adding more disabled workers. Appropriate measures, good follow-up and good service from Aetat are also key elements which, in conjunction with legislation, can help to mobilise labour and exploit the potential of the workforce. It is therefore more important than ever to convert and reorganise Aetat into a user-oriented qualification and dissemination centre. And it's important that the establishment get both peace and political impetus on this great task. If we are to increase the number of people with disabilities in the labour market, we need to develop skills that the agency currently lacks. It has to change so that the work on qualification becomes more important, and it is important that we get as broad a political response to the changes that are necessary in Aetate, as is the happy broad upsurge we have about the committee position today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e911	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e914	First to the representative Sandberg, who said that I used the cut in the budget frame of Aetat as an argument for the situation that has arisen around the issue of regulation/attacking. I didn't mean to make it that way. What I meant was that since the New Year and until today, there has been a downfall in Aetat that makes it problematic for users of the department to get enough help and service. But then to the Council of State. Today I have to have a bad day, because I actually want to use this pulpit to decorate a little bit of the council. Nor shall I make it a habit! But I think he took a very positive and nice attitude to what is in the committee setting, and I am very happy about that. I believe that today we should be able to make good changes for the benefit of the users. My question to the Council of State is: does he now take into account the time factor around the evaluation? Can he now announce a time when he expects the evaluation to be carried out and that he can look at regulatory changes? And then there's a couple more areas that I'd like to ask the Council to look a little bit more closely at during the evaluation. It is the situation of users when the financial benefits are incurred during their holidays, and when they are absent because of illness when they are in recovery. Finally, the Council of State said that the procedures for payment are in good hands. Is it so to understand that this is no longer a problem, and that the payments are now under control and can eliminate the attention at least around that problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e926	At the outset, I believe that I can comfort the representative Upbeøen Hansen that it will be enough when it comes to the views of the Council of State! But otherwise, thank you for nice words. As far as the deadlines for evaluation are concerned, as I said in my speech, we hope to be able to go through most of this so that it can be mentioned in the 2003 budget proposal. I can't guarantee that it's finished at all points, but as much as possible of what we're going to look at, I think we should be able to mention in the budget proposal. I take note of the views expressed by Mr Hansen on the situation of the users, and we will look at that in more detail. When it comes to the payment problems, I say we're in a more normal crowd. I would like to remind you that Aetat is responsible for an unusually large number of payments throughout the year, and I cannot guarantee – and no one can guarantee – that every single payment in that system takes place spotlessly at any time. But what's about to happen is that we get into a normal situation with regard to people on vocational rehabilitation, that is. that we have about the same error rate as what we have for day money. This means that Aetat must, of course, work on further quality improvement all the time, but there is no longer any special situation in the case of recipients of funds for vocational rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e937	To the matter of when we are going to get this to Stortinget again: I want to make the council aware that on page 3 of the setting a unanimous committee actually asks that you come back to Stortinget with a separate case about this. I think I would like to stress that the Committee has said so. It is because we believe that this is such a major issue that we should focus on it in our own case and not in a budget proposal. The reason why we now have to do these penalty rounds is that it turned out that last time we did, sail if we had it as a separate case, we didn't quite manage to figure out what would be the consequences. So to what the Council of State says about us agreeing on the main features. Yes, if the benefits are to be pensionable – I think there is a very broad consensus – and if you want to increase the minimum income. And I hope that now you agree that it might be wise to have an economic incentive to be in contact with the world of work, and also that there should be a focus on goals, of course. But I think it's too early to conclude whether you agree on what other elements it is that it is necessary to have in place in such a system before you think it is appropriate. So finally, I need to ask the Council of State a little bit about what has happened in advance here. It is a fact that the matter was dealt with in Stortinget in the spring of 2000. So in addition to that, you've had a lot of conversions on the computer system, and you've had a downtime in Aetat. The Council of State is now asking for Aetat to settle down. Does that mean that the Council of State does not plan any changes in the Aetat the next year, or what does the Council of State really mean by that statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e946	To the specific issue of own case or reference in the budget proposal: in any case, adjustments in the legislation here are a budgetary matter, and it must be mentioned in the budget proposal. What I'm saying is that I'm expecting what we're going to review, the Storting will get involved through the budget proposal. Whether or not it can be natural with a review on its own matter, we will consider. But in any case, this is essentially a budgetary matter, and as such it belongs to it in the context of the budget proposal. When it comes to calming down in Aetat, I just want to repeat what I said: ‘It is therefore more important than ever to convert and reorganise Aetat into a user-oriented qualification and dissemination seat.’ Aetat has not been served calmly in the sense that nothing should happen, but Aetat has served to ensure that there is peace around the great and important work that needs to be done to make Aetat a good place of qualification and dissemination in the 21st century. Aetat has very strong traditions, but the transition to the tasks that Aetat is facing is a big and difficult process. The Council of State wants Aetat to relax in doing that job in a good way, and asks for a broad political uprising to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e953	Here's the deal, as I see it, but to some extent with regard to what might be the result of the review that's now going to be. First of all, there is a broad consensus that the rules, the outcomes we are talking about today, should stimulate a more inclusive working life. Secondly, there is also a broad consensus that the benefits should be pensionable and that there should be short-term benefits. But it is that, in relation to the stones that are to be turned, it is pointed to many elements, where it will also be important from the Committee's point of view to be able to go into the evaluations with which the Ministry will come back to the Storting. I am pleased that the Council of State is impatient about producing such a review for the Storting, and that he is already notifying that the changes that he may propose will result from the 2003 budget. But I would also like to ask the Council of State to note that it is actually a co-consultant committee that has asked for a separate case to just have this opportunity to go thoroughly into the case complex. When it's Aetat, we get back to it. For our part, we want a qualification seat, and a staff that's good at disseminating, but we actually didn't think the council's signal so far to emphasize primarily the tranquillity of Aetat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e960	I can't comment on how others see what I'm trying to figure out, but I've actually systematically tried to say from the first day that Aetat is a central and important entity that we want to use, and secondly that one has to continue and take on the great work that is involved not only in conveying people who are initially well qualified for work, but helping people who initially have a great need for qualifications, to arrive at the point where they can also be communicated to the labour market. We want to give priority to actions that are just helping people who need qualification, and Aetat must also be reorganized in line with this. I can't help but understand that, through it systematically from the first day, we have tried to give clear positive signals regarding the development of Aetate. Unfortunately, what I can see is that in the case of professional recruitment – where it was clearly both events and aspects of the regulatory system that were very unfortunate for some users, and with which the Committee now wants us to do something, and which we are going to follow up – it was probably also a desire to use this policy to create extra turbulence around Aetat. What I'm asking for is that we now deal with the legislation and, at the same time, all of us are trying to calm down on the question of what Aetat is going to be, because I have seen it there that the whole Storting is agreeing on the main features of the development line that Aetat should have. And if that's right -- yes, we should be able to express it together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e967	Several have not asked for the word for a line. In this debate, a lot of praise has been distributed, and it has been a pleasant tone – but now the debate is over. [[Fotation, see page 2533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e985	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e999	Fifty years ago – in this room – 10 million were granted. kr to the Fund for aid to underdeveloped countries. It may not have been a large amount – even at that time – but it was still a radical decision in a country that had just come out of war and that still received aid itself. The first allocation of the capital in June 1952 provided the basis for India's aid. This led to a large Norwegian involvement of developing countries. We'll mark this this year. There is every reason to take this opportunity to thank the many individuals and organisations, and employees in NORAD, who have made it possible for Norway to be at the forefront of solidarity with developing countries. During these fifty years, great progress has been made for the poor countries of the world. However, the challenges remain significant. One billion people continue to live in the deepest poverty. Several more have been deprived of their fundamental rights. And still ruining war and violent conflict the basis for growth and well-being in many countries. Last year, too, has been difficult for many developing countries. Economic growth has been weak, and weaker than what is needed to keep track of population growth. The prices of raw materials fell to a historic low. Deteriorating demand in developed countries helps explain the situation. The terrorist attacks on 11 September hit not only the American economy but the world economy. It is developing countries that are most vulnerable to rapid fluctuations, and it is the poorest that have to pay the bill. It is our joint responsibility to support the fight against poverty in developing countries. The UN declaration at the turn of the millennium marks a milestone in international development cooperation. World leaders have committed themselves to the principles of human dignity, equality and justice. Not only countries, but also key global actors such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have committed themselves in the Millennium Goals. The targets can be verified: the proportion living in extreme poverty and hunger shall be halved by 2015. The number of women who die during pregnancy and childbirth shall be reduced. The number of young children who die before they reach the age of five shall be reduced by two thirds. The spread of HIV/AIDS shall be reversed and schooling for all children, girls and boys shall be ensured. The Millennium Goals have one thing in common: They express the different faces of poverty — they describe the everyday life of over one billion people. The Millennium Goals center the human being. This must have consequences for how we deal with development issues. The objectives can only be achieved through enhanced efforts in several areas – through foreign investment, trade, debt and development cooperation, and, of course, primarily by developing countries themselves improving their policies. Discussions in Monterrey, Mexico, in March this year, showed that the rich countries have now understood that contributing to the fight against poverty is also a contribution to global security. The promises for more assistance of about 20-25 pst. between 2004 and 2006 and better market access, it is said that this is something the rich countries are willing to contribute to. The conference could mean a break with a long-term trend of falling aid volume. We welcome the announcement by the United States and the European Union of concrete escalation plans. We know that good help gives results. According to the World Bank, a doubling of international assistance from today's level of just over 50 billion US dollars will be needed annually to achieve the Millennium Goals, and we are far from there. During the process ahead of the Monterrey Conference, Norway has been a driving force to put the rich countries' aid commitments at the centre. We also follow up on the home track. The government aims to increase the aid budget to 1 pst. of gross national income by 2005. Aid can never alone lift a country out of poverty. The whole spectrum of instruments has to be put into use, and countries themselves have to take responsibility. In March, the government presented its Action Plan to combat poverty in the South. The action plan will be the basic document for development policy in the coming period and will provide the direction for our policy along a broad front. The main objective of the action plan is crystal clear. Our development policy is about combating poverty, so that we contribute to the achievement of the Millennium Goals. The Millennium Goals are ambitious. They require a global power cap. We're going to do our thing, and that's why the action plan is also very ambitious. It will take a lot to follow it up. So we need to make sure that we are as equipped and organized as possible to succeed. We are therefore now starting a broad evaluation and review of the entire aid management – including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NORAD here at home and the embassies in our partner country. This is the first time such an evaluation is carried out in Norway. The evaluation shall form the basis for the modernisation of management to ensure that Norway becomes the most efficient and results-oriented international development actor. We are already cutting high in international comparisons, but without the best management possible when we do not meet the objectives we have set in the action plan. This modernisation work will be carried out within the framework of the Government’s modernisation, decentralisation, efficiency and simplification projects in the public sector. I would like to point out some key initiatives and perspectives in the action plan. The action plan points out that a number of conditions affect the economy of developing countries and the situation of poor people in these countries. Something is beyond our control. We can meet other challenges. International and national framework conditions for trade in goods and services, debt and investment affect developing countries, often to a greater extent than assistance. We must therefore ensure that policies in these areas deliver in relation to poverty reduction. I'll come back to trade and investment. In the field of debt, the Government is now following up the expanded debt plan dealt with by the Storting. Norwegian policies, for example: energy, fisheries and agriculture shall be reviewed in order to ensure that they are as consistent as possible with the objectives of development policy. Such a review will look at different aspects of our policies in order to clarify how we can better contribute to reducing poverty in developing countries. This review shall be carried out by the end of the year. On this basis, we hope to contribute to a greater degree of coherence in policy. The action plan enumerates a target of at least 40 pst. of our bilateral assistance will go to the least developed countries, the MUL. These countries need the most assistance, as they have small short-term prospects of attracting capital from other sources. This proportion is significantly higher than the average output of industrialised countries to the poorest countries. It should, however, be within our reach, and in the long term it should probably be further increased. Of course, we should not forget the large poor population also in other developing countries. We have a clear objective that our assistance to these other countries should also benefit the poorest. In cooperating countries, the situation of particularly vulnerable groups, including disabled and indigenous people, shall be given increased attention. The action plan is based on a clear right perspective. Fundamental human rights are the overall objective of development and, at the same time, crucial for development. The right to education and freedom of expression, for example, are human rights and should be promoted for just the simple reason. At the same time, these rights release forces that create and stimulate development. A commitment to economic growth is necessary, but far from enough to bring people out of poverty. Education is one of the most important means of combating poverty and promoting development. Investment in initial training for girls and women provides the best return. It shows more reports. Education leads to fewer childbirth, improved family health and higher incomes for women. Education promotes equality. Education frees creativity and the belief that one can change one's own situation for the better and is anchored in human rights. It's fundamental to building the country. Therefore, education is so central in the Millennium Goals, and therefore education is job no. 1 for this government in development policy. The Cooperative Government undertakes to increase support for education to 15 p.m. of the total assistance. We will help to ensure that education is given a greater place in all aspects of development cooperation, including in humanitarian aid. This involves the provision of free basic training for all. I have started a work to design an education strategy to achieve this goal. It is not only about how much money is allocated, of course, but also for what purposes. We need to pay greater attention to contributing to the completion of education and to improving the quality of education. It is therefore necessary to focus on teacher training and learning materials, as well as on institution development and skills building. This should preferably be done by engaging in major sectoral programmes under the own governance of the authorities. Norway is hosting a conference on education and development under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Ministers in Oslo at the beginning of June this year. The conference brings together development ministers and education ministers in the Nordic countries for the first time. The Conference shall contribute to maximising the use of Nordic professional and financial resources in a common education and training environment in poor countries. Investment in health is also an investment in development and a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of the action plan. Priority shall be given to children, young people and women. In December last year, the World Health Organisation presented a report showing that if developing countries increase their share of their gross domestic product for health purposes by 2pst, and give countries parallel increases their health assistance to 0.1pst. of its gross domestic product, it will generate within 10 to 15 years an economic return of five to six times the effort. And eight million lives will be saved every year. That's important numbers. The relationship between health and development is now most evident in the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Three million people died of AIDS in 2001. Estimates show that the countries most hit as a result of the epidemic can reduce their gross domestic product by more than 20 pst. by 2020. We're taking this seriously. Therefore, the Government is continuing the heavy investment in HIV/AIDS and health. The government will also work for increased international efforts in the fight against female gender mutilation. The Government's action plan on poverty reduction states that the country's own poverty strategies are the basis for our bilateral cooperation. The plans will be the basis for the mobilisation of own resources and for the prioritisation of donor-to-donation tasks. An improvement in the governance is necessary to succeed. Therefore, the Government is now taking its own initiative for good governance in development cooperation. It is both about improving public policy and governance and strengthening the so-called control functions. We are now systematically monitoring the situation in the first row of our main co-operation countries. On the management side, we look at issues such as the need for reforms in the public sector, financial management, anti-corruption measures and the strengthening of the rule of law through the justice sector. On the control side, we focus on both governmental control bodies such as national audit, political institutions such as national parliaments and non-governmental actors such as political parties, free media, civil society organisations and communities to benefit from assistance. Such non-governmental janitors have a very important role to play in strengthening the governance of developing countries. The government attaches great importance to the fight against corruption and will reinforce the work started three years ago in this area. We cannot demand the perfection of the cooperating countries. On the basis of this review, however, we will discuss with the authorities of the country what measures can be taken on the management side as well as on the control side. In consultation with other donors and development actors, we will offer concrete financial support and competence to build up better capacity for good governance. Also here is the coordination key. Our three partners in Utstein cooperation, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany, will be important partners. Democratic development, with broad public participation, is of great importance in pushing forward greater accountability both in politicians and in administration. A functioning democracy is a key to the fight against both corruption and poverty. The political parties have a central role here. Some donor countries have for some years had schemes to support political parties in developing countries. As part of the Governing Board Initiative, during the summer, the Government will establish a Norwegian centre for democratic support to help strengthen the organisations and functions of the parties. The government has come to the conclusion that this is a better system than previous proposals on human rights relations with the Institute of Human Rights. This will allow Norwegian political parties to assist in the development of democracy in developing countries. The political parties are provided with funding on the basis of concrete project proposals. Attention shall be paid to the promotion of multi-party systems and the implementation of free choice. The qualification of women politicians will be important. A large proportion of the funds should be allocated to actions where more parties cooperate, both in Norway and in the co-operation countries. Priority shall be given to actions in Norway's main cooperation countries. Projects in other cooperation countries should also be eligible to a limited extent. The government has built on both British and Dutch experiences in the design of the scheme and has had good consultations with representatives of the Norwegian political parties and their side organisations. Political parties will also be involved in formulating guidelines for this new mechanism. Civil society also has an important control function. The government attaches great importance to close cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Today, more means of assistance for development and humanitarian action are channelled through non-governmental organisations than through state aid to our countries of cooperation. It shows the emphasis on the role of organisations. It also illustrates the great responsibility of the organisations. We want diversity. It may often be easier for Norwegian non-governmental organisations than the Norwegian State to contribute to the development of organisations that may be watch bickers and critical corrigenda. However, social and other service organisations must also see the need to work in a coordinated manner with national authorities' own plans and priorities. Several of our cooperating countries have indicated that this is very important in relation to their own planning and overview of available resources. A number of organisations now also cooperate within the framework of the Peace Corps. The new Peace Corps supports cooperation between organisations and institutions in Norway and developing countries and also assists in recruitment and training. The peace corps have started well over the last year, and by the end of last year they had activities in over 50 countries. The vision behind the Peace Corps is competence transfer and mutual cooperation for development. It is also about creating change agents at home and outside, and more peace corps from developing countries are now in Norway. In this way, young people are a group that deserves a greater role and more opportunities to be involved. So we want to do two things: Firstly, the Government of the State Budget for 2003 will propose to establish a separate youth programme under the leadership of the Peace Corps, the so-called FK Ung. This programme will support the many youth exchange programmes run by a number of non-governmental organisations. The Youth Programme under the Peace Corps shall commit young people to thorough pre-departure training and proper follow-up after repatriation. We hope these young people become bearers of values and commitment that we need in the fight against poverty. Secondly, in this anniversary year, I want to establish a youth panel – or our own watchbitch. This panel shall have representatives selected by the youth's own organisations. The Panel will have the opportunity to critically assess our development policy and make its views and comments on what we are doing. I promise to take both rice and roses seriously. As a next initiative in the board work, the Government will propose a greater commitment to free and differentiated media. We'll get back to this. To achieve the objectives of poverty reduction, economic development and value creation are necessary. The previous Bondevik government launched a strategy for industrial development in South in 1999. We have now speeded up the follow-up of the strategy, as we also signaled in the budget last year. I have therefore started a systematic review of all our main cooperation countries in relation to industrial development. We need to identify bottlenecks and opportunities. We need to look at areas where Norwegian actors can contribute and have comparative advantages. And we're going to look at opportunities for cooperation with other international actors. I have invited the business community into this work. Cooperation has developed very constructively. The country reviews are initially carried out in Bangladesh, Malawi, Mozambique, Sri Lanka, Tanzania and Uganda. Cooperation and partnership between business and public authorities are important. In order to strengthen this cooperation, a separate NHO secretariat responsible for development matters will be set up before the summer. The Secretariat shall, inter alia: act as a resource base for the assistance authorities and contribute to the development of the partnership between industry, non-governmental organisations and authorities. While the OECD countries are now unbundling their assistance to LDCs, this also opens up new markets for Norwegian business. All aid-financed projects of a certain size in the least developed countries shall be notified to the OECD from 1 January of this year. In order to ensure a level playing field and open international competition, the OECD Government is working to reach agreement on common procurement procedures. From the Norwegian side, we also want the tender documents to set environmental and work standards and take into account factors such as transfer of competence and maintenance. Trade is an important prerequisite for industrial development. From 1 July this year, all products from the least developed countries could be imported free of customs duties and quota free into Norway. We are now actively working with Norwegian importers and businesses to produce products that meet our quality requirements, which can thus find the way to the Norwegian market. Increased market access is also a key requirement of developing countries in the new WTO round. The government emphasises efforts to increase market access for goods from countries other than the least developed. At the same time, it is important to maintain a focus on LDCs both in terms of market access and technical assistance to participate in WTO negotiations. Agriculture must be at the heart of industrial development in poor countries. The majority of the world's poor live in rural areas. Nevertheless, the share of Norwegian and international aid for the development of the agricultural sector has fallen significantly in recent years. The government will help reverse this trend. An advisory group on support for agricultural development has been set up to promote recommendations on concrete measures by September this year. This is why the Government will come back to. The government announced in its examination of the supplementary proposal that it would come back with assessments of our countries of cooperation. The most immediate issue is our cooperation with Zimbabwe. It is important to strengthen the international pressure against President Mugabe and his government. The aim is to get the authorities to respect human rights and democratic rules, stop political violence and work for national reconciliation. It is therefore intended that Norway should join the international sanctions against President Mugabe and his close supporters. Cooperation with Zimbabwean authorities was frozen in 2001. All the suspended aid agreements will now be terminated. However, development cooperation through non-governmental channels will be maintained. The aim is to contribute to democratic development, to strengthen respect for human rights, to defend freedom of expression and the press, to promote national reconciliation, and to remedy the humanitarian crisis. In order to ensure adequate resources for such actions, the Government will not propose to delete Zimbabwe from the list of other cooperating countries. The government has signaled that there would be a closer look at developments in Zambia. Although significant shortcomings were identified in the December 2001 elections, the new president of the country has the power to distance himself from the government he took over in a short time, despite belonging to the same party. The new government has also given positive signals on the fight against corruption and the more active fight against poverty. The government is now proposing that the country be maintained as a main co-operation country. However, we need to follow developments in the country very closely in order to assess the basis for continuing to give Zambia high priority in our development cooperation. The renewed war acts between Ethiopia and Eritrea in 1999 led to the freezing of State aid to Ethiopia and Eritrea in May 2000. Both the conflict relationship with Eritrea and internal developments with a weakening of respect for democracy and human rights were the reasons why the Stortinget decided to change Ethiopia's status as a main co-operation country. The peace process has so far gone better than many expected. We hope that positive developments can provide a basis for the re-integration of Ethiopia into the group of main co-operation countries. That's our goal. However, it is too early to conclude at this stage. A number of difficult issues remain in the peace process, and the border demarcation itself, which calls for the UN peacekeeping presence, is expected to extend until 2004. The relationship with Eritrea will also have an impact in this context and in our assessments. On this basis, I cannot therefore recommend that Ethiopia now be upgraded to the main cooperation country. For many years Norway has had a substantial presence in Mali through non-governmental organisations and has also provided assistance through multilateral organisations. Mali meets a wide range of criteria set out in Norway’s main co-operation countries. This applies not least to the country’s willingness to reform. A poverty strategy is under development and new democratic elections were held in April. This is a development we follow with great interest. However, the country remains at an early stage of the reforms. It remains to be seen how the current presidential election will affect developments in the country. If positive developments continue, we will appropriately return to the question of whether Mali will become the main co-operation country. Until then, I would recommend that broad cooperation be continued with voluntary organisations, research communities and the United Nations system. As regards the group of other cooperating countries, the Government announced that it would take a closer look at developments both in Madagascar and in Rwanda. For over a hundred years, Norway has had a close relationship with Madagascar, both through mision and aid. A prerequisite for strengthening our development cooperation with Madagascar was that the country was given a government working in a democratic direction, guaranteeing human rights and combating corruption. Unfortunately, Madagascar has failed in this area. The Presidential elections last December could have corrected this impression, but the outcome has so far created an unresolved situation. The economy of the country has become heavily harmed, and the need for external humanitarian aid is increasing. The agreement between the parties, recently concluded in Dakar, between the presidential candidates, was a step in the right direction. However, the situation is very tense after the country’s Supreme Court has appointed a winner after re-election. The government will follow developments closely. Norway is ready to support the gas people in this difficult and acute situation. In this context, it is difficult to make a recommendation on the question of Madagascar’s status as a co-operative country, if any. The situation in Rwanda is still difficult. Judicial settlements following the 1994 genocide remain a major challenge for the country. Choices are planned after the Constitution is in place by the end of 2002. The human rights situation is still very weak. Therefore, the government does not find any basis for integrating Rwanda into the group of other cooperating countries. In the case of Niger, Bhutan and Mongolia, there has been no change to the Government’s recommendation that countries not be part of the group of other co-operation countries. In the current fiscal year, we no longer have a major cooperation country in Central America. There is no reason to change this so far, although new governments in both Nicaragua and Honduras have given positive signals and demonstrated their willingness to fight corruption. Several of the countries in the region are in a critical phase of the democratisation process, and positive developments may be supported. In the context of the next year’s government budget, the government will assess from this perspective a strengthening of regional efforts towards Central America. We've probably got a dramatic year behind us. A number of countries have been marked by war and conflict. Peace and development are linked. Peace efforts are investment in development and poverty reduction. With peace-building assistance measures, we will promote viable political and administrative structures, democracy and respect for human rights. We will contribute to security, reconciliation and non-violent conflict resolution. We will work towards the integration of peace building into national poverty strategies in conflict zones. Responsibility for building peace rests on the parties involved. However, the international community can assist by preventing, building competences, capacity and institutions, and supporting processes that promote conflict resolution. Development cooperation plays a key role here. We attach great importance to supporting the UN's work on conflict management and peace-building. We will help to strengthen and develop an overall international approach to peace building under the leadership of the United Nations. However, Norwegian efforts can also be channelled bilaterally or through other organisations. Norway continues to have a strong commitment both in Sudan, the Middle East and Sri Lanka. In addition, we have systematicised our efforts for peace building in West Africa and in the Great Lakes region. This year Norway also heads the Afghanistan Support Group. Afghanistan quickly came to the centre of world attention following the terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September last year. Dry and over two decades of conflict have left deep marks. Infrastructure is destroyed, human resources are depleted and social institutions dissolved. Norway’s leadership in the support group provides a good opportunity to play an active role in the international coordination of assistance to the country and in the dialogue to influence further policy developments. There is an urgent need for both humanitarian aid and support for security measures, reconstruction and long-term development measures in a situation that has become even more precarious after the earthquakes just before the Easter weekend. The new entry for transitional assistance is an important source of financing Norwegian aid for reconstruction of Afghanistan. Norway aims at a total aid to the country for 2002 of around 350 million. kr. Transitional assistance and peace building assistance are important, but at the same time very risky. This has not least been experienced in Palestinian areas, where institutions and development projects financed by Norwegian and international aid are bombed and destroyed. The ongoing crisis in the area has led to the need to adapt the situation to normal development cooperation with the Palestinian authorities. Some of the long-term development programme has been delayed, while our support for short-term projects and emergency aid has increased. Unfortunately, there is little evidence now that the economic and social situation in the Palestinian region will allow the first to return to the original development cooperation plans. Work has therefore begun on a new strategy for Norwegian assistance to the Palestinians. Savimbi's death has triggered a political development in Angola that gives hope that the country can get out of 40 years of civil war. Peacebuilding will be an important task. Recent developments may lead to a change in the restrictions on assistance to Angola to which the Government made the additional proposal. The government will come back to this issue in the 2003 draft budget. Norway’s support for peace building and development in the next year’s budget will also be explained in more detail. The Government's action plan on poverty reduction provides a good basis for a targeted and consistent Norwegian development policy and for Norwegian action in international forums. The Conference on Financing for Development has provided a good basis for important forthcoming summits. At the beginning of May, the UN will hold its special session on children. The specialisation is a milestone in the international effort to strengthen children’s rights and well-being. For Norway, it is important that the special session contributes to the focus of children’s fundamental rights on health, education, development, protection and participation. The World Summit on Sustainable Development will take place in Johannesburg, following the summer food summit in Rome, where the right to food will be highlighted by the Norwegian side. Ten years have passed since the Rio Summit. The central message from Rio was that the earth’s population — the poor as rich — is linked in an unbreakable community. We need action-oriented and binding results. And the role of the UN in sustainable development must be strengthened. Many of the world's poor depend directly on natural resources and ecological systems to meet their needs. Both local and global environmental changes will hit the poorest. Climate change impacts are greatest for the poorest countries, with the least resources to adapt. At the same time, these countries have only made a small contribution to the problems. Norway and other rich countries therefore have a moral responsibility both to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions and to remedy the consequences. When we go to Johannesburg, we want to contribute to a new gift in the work of sustainable development. We will confirm the need for strong international institutions, both in the field of development and in the field of the environment, with clear commitments. We will further work for good national governance, for consistency in the policies of rich countries to combat poverty and underline the need for more assistance to the poorest to bring us closer to the goal. In the 1950s, Norway has participated in international development, significant progress has been made. Only in the last 20 years has the world's population increased by 1.6 billion people. However, according to figures from the World Bank, fewer people live in absolute poverty today than 20 years ago – 200 million fewer, to be accurate. That is a good result. However, at the beginning of a new century, international societies face considerable challenges. It is necessary to facilitate sustainable economic growth and democratic development. This is essential for strengthening developing countries in their fight against poverty and for development. Evolution cannot be created from the outside. Development is primarily a result of individual national efforts, based on their own assumptions. This is a broad international consensus on, among both rich and poor countries. But there is also a broad consensus on one more thing, namely that in the rich part of the world we also have a crucial part of responsibility. We are the ones who must be willing to clear debts and reduce barriers to trade. We are the ones who have to contribute a significant part of the funding that needs to be provided for poor people to have a humane life. Developments are about extending the freedom of people, human choices. Are poor people also to have the opportunity of a different life, or are they to be forever vacated by the coercion of poverty? If there's one thing we don't lack in our part of the world, then there are choices. But some choices are more important than others. We have the choice of helping people in poor countries get freedom and choice, or not. We could be part of the problem, or part of the solution. I trust that this will continue to pick the right side of this vital question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1200	The President will propose that the statement be reviewed and discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1214	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage: see page 2533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1230	The Government of Stoltenberg provided for amendments to the Statute of the Council of Technology, including the extension of the composition of the Council, at kgl. Res. the autumn of 2000. At the same time, it was proposed that the Council be moved from Oslo to Trondheim. The majority in Stortinget, with the exception of the Workers' Party, asked that these questions be submitted to Stortinget as their own case. That's the background for today's treatment. There is reason to stress the broad political consensus that is now on the basis of the work of the Council of Technology by the Government joining in the changes in the statutes made by the Government of Stoltenberg in November 2000, and that these are the basis for the further activities of the Council of Technology. In particular, the Committee points out that the changes to the Statute and a strengthened Council configuration give the Council of Technology a greater responsibility to focus on the opportunities offered by new technologies for society, as well as to keep up-to-date on technology assessment and technological foresight internationally. The Committee stresses that the Technology Council remains an independent body. The Committee takes note of the assessments and conclusions of this government that the Secretariat of the Council of Technology will continue to be in Oslo and co-located with the Biotechnology Study Programme and the Research Ethics Committees. For my part, I would like to mention again that the government of Stoltenberg proposed to move the Secretariat of the Council of Technology from Oslo to Trondheim to exploit the proximity of a wide-ranging technological environment in connection with NTNU. At that time, we believed, and we still believe, that a localisation decision of such a limited extent should be able to give rise to the responsibilities and assessments of the Government. We therefore also take note of this government's conclusion. In the nomination, the Committee further points to a part of the basis for the establishment of the Technology Council in terms of both tasks related to technology assessments and ensuring a broad and open debate. I'm just making a point here to refer to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1245	The President makes it clear that there is no Council of State present in the Chamber, but, for its part, he cannot see any reason why we should not continue the proceedings, even if no representative of the Government is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1248	On the right, we find it extremely positive that there is now a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy on this matter, linked to both mandate and location. As I understand the history, it was in the past to be a rather unnecessary dispute about both mandate and location, but with the Government's proposals and the majority position of the Committee, these matters are now being put in place and the basis for constructive and forward-looking work in the Council of Technology. The pluralisation points out that the Technology Council will have a responsibility to focus on the opportunities offered by new technologies for society, as well as to keep up-to-date on technology assessments and technological foresight internationally. In this context, I find it necessary to mention that this should not lead to the unnecessary spread of our limited research resources, including: because our technological universities, universities and universities, as one of their leading research tasks, have just to keep up-to-date on what is happening internationally, and to be able to provide both education, research, business and society with the highest and last of knowledge in the technological field. Research-based education shall be based on the best and most up-to-date knowledge available at national and international level. If our technological schools are to be able to fulfil this obligation, they need to be constantly up-to-date in this area. It is also highly desirable for researchers and scientific staff to disseminate knowledge, develop new knowledge and participate in the societal debate on technology opportunities and limitations, as well as positive and negative aspects. With the limited resources that the Technology Council will necessarily have at its disposal, it will be a major challenge to fulfil the mandate’s intentions to keep up to date both in the technological field, to address the technology challenges in all areas of society – as it is mandated – and to promote a public technology debate. But with the decision that is being taken today in Stortinget, there is at least a basis for positive development, and I hope that the Technology Council, in cooperation with our other good technological research environments, will be able to fulfil its objective and contribute to an even better technological development in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1259	For the record, the President may now state that the Council of State Ansgar Gabrielsen is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1262	I'll be very short. The Committee agrees with the conclusion. From the point of view of the Progress Party, there are only two comments I should like to make briefly. One is that we stress that we need to continue the arrangement with the playwrights, that the playwrights are included in the work of the Technology Council. In our opinion, the principle of playing men will give the Technology Council the legitimacy it needs. A possible extension of the Council by up to five persons has also been announced. We have a view that today's number is good enough and is an appropriate form of work. We want to keep it and not extend it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1271	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1287	The matter concerns a proposal for a budget outside the ordinary budgetary procedure. The reason is that the Ministry believes that the financial situation of the Information Society Fund is such that it cannot bear the cost of 30 new performances. An overall committee records that the Ministry proposes to finance 30 performances over the ordinary budget, rather than using the returns of the Information Society Fund. The Committee stresses the need to set up new posts in order to ensure that the performance of the services can be carried out under the new special agreement. The majority of the Committee, composed of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, maintains, in line with the Budget. S. No 12 for 2001-2002, setting up 10 new slide shows to strengthen the Church's diaconal profile, and proposing the following: ‘The Government requests the establishment of 10 slide shows financed for the current year by the Information Service Fund.’ The Committee's minority, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, cannot support the proposal, but they say that they see the importance of creating new diacons, and they ask the Government to come back to this on the first appropriate occasion. We believe that this is the appropriate occasion. 10 slide shows cost 830 000 kroner. When the majority repeats this now, it's to show that we're serious when we want to strengthen the Church's diaconal profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1305	Through St. Prp. No 44 for 2001-2002 it is clear that the financial situation of the Information Society Fund is not such as to allow it to bear the costs of 30 new performances, in addition to the tasks already performed by the Fund. The majority decision of the budget debate last year therefore needs to be reconsidered. The government and government parties took part in the same debate that is known to cover these expenditures within the State budget. When developments have shown that the majority decision cannot be implemented because of that financial situation, it is correct for the Government to come to the Grand Duchy with proposals for supplementary appropriations. For the matter is important. The new posts are set up in order to ensure that the leisure and vacation arrangements of the priests can be carried out in line with the new special agreement for community performances which have already entered into force. The right considers this agreement to be an important and good agreement. It is important that the necessary funds are provided to bring the new performances into place from 1 June 2002. The figures for the 2001 Information Service Fund show that the Fund has had realised losses of 32.4 million. kr in the case of the sale of securities and that both the market value and the book value of the financial assets have had negative developments in 2001. In a letter dated 19 April 2002, the Ministry stated that the additional expenditure in 2001 was covered by the fund’s free equity, which has been reduced from 70 million. SEK to 2.6 million. kr during 2001. In our opinion, therefore, it is not appropriate to cover the State’s costs for 2002 to set up 10 fund slide shows. The funds are essentially eaten up, and where there is nothing, even the emperor has lost his right. We should be more than happy to be involved in the creation of slide constellations. The diaconic profile of the church should be strengthened, but there must be an invasion. We cannot therefore participate in the majority funding through the Information Society Fund. Right wants a strengthening of the Church's diaconal profile, and we therefore ask in our note that the Government will come back to this on the first appropriate occasion. I have faith that that occasion, with the necessary containment, will be able to come in a short time. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the performances are now coming into place, and that the Stortinget thus shows that we take the leisure arrangements of the priests seriously. As regards the recommendation from the Committee, the Right will vote in favour of I, but against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1322	The rapporteur has given a clear and transparent examination of the matter. For the Workers' Party, there is only a need to further elucidate some aspects of this case. First of all, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party has always been positive about the expansion of the number of performance positions. I would like to remind you that the Stoltenberg government increased the number by five last autumn in order to meet the special agreement that was concluded with the community services. Disagreement has taken place on the way in which the posts are to be financed. First of all, it is our wish that this could be done through the Information Society's fund, as we proposed in the autumn's budgetary procedure. Now, however, the Council of Churches, in a letter to the Committee of 19 April, has given a brief – and I would like to say – an almost superficial account of the economic development in 2001 of the Information Society Fund, and it appears from that statement that the Fund has had a negative development last year. On that basis, even if there is some doubt, the Workers' Party will today vote for the funding of the performances in other ways. Dividends for 2001 are 25 million. kr below 2000. At the same time, we see that the book values of the fund’s total capital fund are nearly DKK 1.5 billion. On the other hand, the ten new slide shows are to be financed from the Fund. From the Workers' Party we are pleased that the diacon service is now being strengthened, and hope that this will give greater scope to church work. We have not put any leads in the position regarding where these positions are to be created, but I would like to ask the Council of State specifically to look at and assess the need to get more Sami-speaking deacons, especially in Finnmark. In conclusion, I must say that it is an over-repliest response we have received from the Department regarding the economy of the Information Society Fund. We want to get back to the fund economy on later occasions. It may well be natural that the Department provides a little more detailed orientation in the state budget with which the Government is now working. Of course, the Council of State will also have the opportunity to give its answer today, if she actually believes that the fund's management is good enough when the return is so reduced that you sell values away with loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1337	I'm going to be reasonably short in spite of the fact that the particular attention our party has received has been attached to the majority decision in December, perhaps would suggest that I spent one minute per. prestige – I'll leave it. This is Refight case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We had one fight from the government yesterday, so this is the number. 2nd@item: inlistbox We note that. We also note that in both fighting cases it is possible to find fresh funds. In fact, we have expanded the budgetary framework that we were required to stay within a few months ago. We also record that, and we accept this way of solving the performances. At the same time, we are taking the principle into account, and it also opens up the possibility that other good purposes may be given fresh resources when we are about to embark on the revision of the national budget in a short time. I would also like to point out one of the comments made by the Progress Party, together with the representative Simonsen, on the matter, and perhaps the main point, the agreement on the days off of the parish priest, which entered into force on 1 April 2001. I'll quote what it says: ‘These members further point out that proposals for funds for new performances are primarily justified by a new special agreement on the days off of the parish priests’... ‘This relationship therefore concerns a central-level employment agreement in which the State is an important party and should, in the opinion of those members, be treated in the same way as other employment agreements of a similar nature as long as the current state church and funding arrangement continue.’ I would have thought that there was a comment and a comment that would get broad agreement also from those parties which have been strong in their characteristics of the budget decision in December, and not least the contribution of the Progress Party to that budget decision. I would have thought that maybe you would use this opportunity to stress that this needs to be seen more as a negotiated employment agreement with the associated resources, and be concerned about ensuring that you don't get into trouble like this with a work contract in another case, because it might well happen again if you don't make any changes here. We believe that this remark would give a clear lead if a sufficient number of lots had joined. So finally, about the rematch itself. So it's like you've had a partial rematch. We have not followed what was the budget decision of the majority of the committee, but we have simply lost sight of the deacons. We don't like that solution. That's why we're in a majority who still need to make sure that there's going to be diacons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1353	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Storting is now willing to grant the necessary funds over the state budget to create 30 new performances. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to fulfil the leisure agreement with the Preste Association, and the new positions are necessary to improve working conditions in line with the agreement. I am also pleased that the majority today acknowledges that the funding of performances of the Information Society Fund, as they provided for in the budget negotiations and the budget decision before Christmas, was an airlock. Here they were budgeted with money that could not be found, they disappeared with the exchange rate at the Stock Exchange. However, the majority will finance ten slide shows of the Information Society Fund. I'm happy for the commitment to create more jobs. The need for more jobs is clearly documented. In the Christian People's Party, however, we believe that it is wrong to use the fund's funds to put posts into the fund's budget, simply because there is no sustainability in the fund to take on new tasks such as permanent church positions. We believe that the funds should be used for tasks that go on the Church's inner life. I have noticed how the setting II is formulated. The Christian People's Party cannot support this proposal for a decision. I see today's solution as extraordinary, and today's majority wants to finance these posts from the government budget for future financial years. I ask the case rapporteur to confirm that opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1362	In two days we've granted a little over 20 million. Healthy crowns because the government has wanted to rematch in two cases. Yesterday, that was the primary school exam, and today it is the performances. We record that the department believes that these performances cannot be financed within the fund. I can't in any way see that this is an airlock from our side. There will always be fluctuations in the returns. We still believe that the performance could have been funded within the fund, if it were willing. But we've recorded that the department doesn't want to, and that the department has other ways and other suggestions to finance it, and we've accepted that. That's the actual ratio. It is not automatic for new posts to be created even if a collective agreement is concluded. It must also be clear. It's a little strange of this government, which is talking about improving the efficiency of the public sector, to do so. We need to streamline large sections of the public sector, but in this area there is clearly no efficiency gain from a tariff agreement, if any. These positions were not, in our opinion, necessary, even if a collective agreement had been concluded. We could have achieved it by improving efficiency, by other ways of organising the performance service. But we still accept that. We say that we should follow up this agreement, and we should grant the new posts that may be a consequence of the collective agreement. But I expect the government will also argue the same way when they make agreements later, and not then argue with efficiency possibilities and some such things. It's a little bit important for us to emphasize it. In addition, we believe that there are still good reasons to make clear that the diacons should be set up, as we said when we dealt with the budget. For this reason, the majority maintains the decision taken before Christmas, namely the establishment of ten slide shows and the financing of them in the context of the fund's return. That, in my opinion, is good reasons for doing so. And we can't use annual fluctuations in returns, as an argument that this can't be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1375	I really didn't intend to take the floor in this debate, but it seems I'm forced to do it anyway. The first thing I want to comment on is the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim,'s claim that the answer given was superficial. Your score is because you don't believe the content of the answer. If you don't want to trust the content, or if you don't want an answer, you can try different characteristics. But here it actually says that with what we now know about the Information Society's fund, the fund can't help to finance these ten diacons. When the budget was broken, there was a plural comment in the configuration from the committee that went to the 30 performances and the 10 slide settings. But there was also a majority decision that went in for the inflation adjustment of the Information Society's fund. And if these two don't go together, a decision is actually stronger than a plural remark. The challenge here is actually going primarily to the Progress Party, which is involved in inflation adjustments, for which I am very pleased. But when the two don't go together, what should we give priority to, the slide adjustments or the inflation adjustments? Here we have a big challenge and a problem. It's the one. The other thing that I also reacted very strongly to was when the representative Bekkelem Orheim spoke about the five positions that the Workers' Party government proposed. Yes, that's quite right. But the agreement with the Preste Association, which was signed by the previous government, meant that they needed 35 new settings for the current year. Then 5 is actually a little bit puzzled. I give honor to the Labour Party because there were 35 new positions in place the year before, but to fulfill the agreement we had to have 35 new ones. One might talk about how one should improve working time for both the one and the other, but I don't think there's any particular doubt that those who know a little about the pastor's profession know that that agreement is necessary compared to the fact that the pastors should also have a leisure contract, as we expect. In short: I am pleased that we get multiple numbers for these 30 new posts now. And the reason we found new, fresh money, was for the first time that if one were to restate and secure the fund, we were forced to find fresh money. Secondly, I felt a moral responsibility to follow up the agreement that worker party government had signed before us when it broke the leisure contract. That's why we were able to find this money. I've noticed what's in the plural setting, but I'm actually challenging the Progress Party. I'm glad they're in on the decision that's there. But what should come first, the inflation hedge or the slide settings? Because those decisions may not be taken. I'm very aware that a lot of church sounds need more deacons, and we're going to give it priority in time too. I'd love to. But for me and for the department it was important that in this round we first followed up the leisure contract that the workers party government had signed. Then we have to include the other positions, both in relation to deacons, catechists and possibly new priests, in the budgets that may come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1390	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1393	It was the tone in the Council's response that made me ask for the word for a short line. I think it's a little special way for the Council of State to act on when we're accused that we don't like the answer given in relation to funding. The truth is that it was the Council of State that did not like what the majority did during the budgetary procedure, and that she basically disagreed with the approach that this majority now takes. I would like to ask the Council of State: if the 2001 yield had been different from what we see now, would the Council of State have accepted it? I also want to remind you that the Stoltenberg administration made an agreement. New jobs have been created. And the majority of the Storting have been concerned that we should ensure both the performances and the slide shows, so that the Church is given the opportunity to do its job in the best possible way. It's going to be especially when the Council of State answers the way she does, when we see that the total value of the fund is actually almost SEK 1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1404	Now it's in my letter of reply when it comes to that information, that for the first time we haven't yet received the fund's accounts and annual profit for 2001, and for the second time we've gone in and asked what the situation looks like, and thirdly we're explaining the financial situation of the fund. If this doctor had as much returns as it's had before, it's clear that we should have covered this within the fund. If we didn't like it, we had to do it, because the Storting has ordered us to do it. But now we have an additional problem with the information I'm sitting on, and I can't help but give the information back to Stortinget. It's just like that. In fact, I urge the Committee to meet with the Information Service Fund so that the Committee can obtain that information. The Committee has good prospects of doing so, if it will. I am absolutely sure that the fund will meet the information you can get, either through the Ministry or directly through the Information Service Fund. I am fully aware that the employee party administration had been given the settings. But they had not received enough settings in relation to what the agreement was based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1414	For its part, the President would point out that it is quite special that the Council of State recommends a committee to take a meeting with an underlying office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1417	This is getting weirder and weirder as the debate progresses. Here we are encouraged to take a meeting with a council to get information that she thinks we might not understand when she gives them. I assume that's her point. But that's not what my question is about. My question to the Council of State is simple, given that it was somewhat unclear in the first post whether she would implement this decision which is now being taken, namely that ten diaconsuls should be set up and that they should be financed within the Fund: will the Council not implement this decision? Was that how to understand the first post? Or, how would it be understood, because there were some conflicts somewhere that she designed? My specific question is: will the Council of State implement this decision, or will the Council of State not implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1424	I can first agree that there was an unwatery way I went forward in relation to asking to contact the Information Service's fund. But at least it is certain that the department is ready to give all the information we can get from the fund to the committee. There is a problem when the answer I am sending – which I have of course had contact with the fund in order to give – does not go completely in. That's when we're facing an information problem that we have to deal with the right way. The Ministry is responsible for the answers I have given, and it is also clear after this answer. Then I have a dilemma in relation to the inflation adjustment and securing of the fund in relation to these positions. We have two decisions here, which is already a decision, and today's decision that collides. So my question is, what's going to go first? It's a challenge I've posed to the Progress Party, which is on both of these decisions. And then I'm going to correct myself for what's going to be multiples for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1431	I have asked for the word for an article later, and then I will answer in more detail. To this effect with the fund, I would just like to say briefly so that I believe that both in relation to decisions in the committee and perhaps also by reading the Sem-Declaration, there is a basis for waiting for a clarification from the Government on the fund. It should therefore not be necessary for the Committee to have a meeting with the Fund, but rather to wait for the Government to follow up the Government's request to do as regards the sale of properties, thereby clarifying the economic situation of the Information Society Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1438	I don't know if I got the whole problem in the line. But in relation to what is stated in the Sem Declaration, of course we will follow it up. The main problem for me now is that we are going to implement two different decisions that may conflict with each other. If they're not in conflict with each other, there's no problem. But after what I did with full information about the fund, they could get in conflict with each other, and then I get a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1448	I'm sorry to spend Storting's time on such a day. But now I was a little confused, because it should be quite obvious to the Council of State what the position indicates, and what will become majority decisions here today. Therefore, the Council of State must now give a very clear answer as to whether she can live by the decision taken by the Stortinget, or whether this decision would be such a fundamental error for the Council of State in relation to the guidelines that she believes the Fund must be guided by today, that she cannot accept it. I sincerely believe that the Council of State must give today. This setting has been known for the department. I expect the Council of State to give a clear answer to that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1453	I'm not responding in such a way as to be difficult. The point is that a decision will be taken in the hall today. But there was also a decision in the hall before Christmas, and I'll follow up both of these decisions. Of course, I'm going to follow up these decisions if they don't go against each other. Of course, that's what I have to do. But if they're in conflict with each other, I'm going to have a problem with what decision to follow up. It's that simple. We're going to go over the accountancy and look at the situation of the Information Society's fund, and see what we can do. I have to follow up on what's the plural decision, there's no doubt about it. But the point for me is to emphasize that I can have a dilemma in relation to two plural decisions that are made in this room. Then I assume that the first one that is accepted is not lifted even if there is a new plural decision now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1460	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1463	In fact, I did not intend to ask for the floor again, because I explained as far as the rapporteur-in-chief of what had happened in the committee. But I'm actually getting a little provoked when I'm listening to the Council's response. As rapporteur of the case, I have actually invited the Council of State to come up with solutions to this matter, so that these dialogues could be established. For the performances she found a solution, but for the slide shows she did not. I feel that the Council of State ignores the majority decision that was actually made in the harvest in relation to these diacons. We accept that the Council of State and the Department find a different funding solution for the performances. I had actually expected the Council of State to enter into dialogue with the Committee, so that a solution had also been found for the diacons. It is clear and explicit in the budget decision that ten catalogues are to be set up. That is why I really hope that the Council of State will follow up on what is going to be adopted here today, that there will be ten diacons, and that they will be financed in the current year's budget, as the representative Lyngstad says. That's what the decision says, NOK 830,000 in the current year of the Information Society Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1472	First, to the representative Lyngstad, with airlocks and initial funding in the budget decision. There's a lot of ways to think about it. What's important is the results. So now there's money, and those who have found money are the government's own parties. Those who failed to find money in December have managed to find money in February. That's interesting. The Christian People's Party is involved in this both before and after the turn of the year. So to this with the fund. There's the Progress Party challenged by the Council of State, so there I'm going to try to be clear. Firstly, I would say that if the Christian People's Party had participated in our earlier proposals to limit the use of the fund's returns, as the Progress Party has several times proposed, but not received a majority, the situation we have in the 2002 budget would not have existed. So there might be something that the Christian People's Party is going to take inwards. So to the understanding of the decision and the order of the execution. There is a majority in the Committee to get a case back on the fund and its future use. There must be a matter that comes and that will be dealt with. It shall then be decided in relation to the matter. It may not be difficult to understand that it is under the decision to raise a krona in the current year's budget and the decision to raise a krona in the current year's budget has now been extended by 8.2 million. kr. But what we're still challenging a little bit is that you're so square with respect to the ten slide shows that were very obvious by the majority in December, when it's proven that we're talking about a modest amount – that's less than 1 million. NOK 800000, more specifically. We don't think the Kingdom's economy is going down if we had increased the frame by about. Nine million. kr instead of 8.2 million. kr. But when you choose to do it in this somewhat square way -- I use a careful expression and call it that -- you get another fight. You get some political Christmas from the majority who are actually not quite satisfied, and who then sends a guided tour along the way. We assume that the majority decision relating to the crown amount will be implemented. Then we will deal with the matter of future use of the fund afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1491	What made me take the floor was the contribution from the representative Sortevik, who is now asking for a separate case to the Stortinget about the use of the Information Society's fund. I would just like to remind the representative, Mr Sortevik, that a year ago the Stortinget had just discussed the fund in the stock exchange and cathedral notification, where one has just also suggested the purpose for which this fund should be used. It was a full review of it. So I can't see that it's now necessary to get a new case on this, even if you might get the impression that there might be a need for it after listening to the debate. It is also true that if the Advance Party had got what they wanted with regard to the use of the fund, it would have been for one purpose: the restoration and maintenance of older church buildings. That was what the Progress Party wanted. But that is not what we are discussing today. That's why it's a little bit difficult for me to figure out what's really the line of the argument today. At least it's clear that the downsale of the fund's values is just a redeployment of money, so that one doesn't solve this problem that way. The fund is based in its own law, and the Stortinget has not discussed how this fund should be used for that long.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1501	I just want to ask the Council of State at the end of the debate to make sure that the Department does its job before she gets to Stortinget, so we don't have to get the kind of confusing rounds that we've now got. It may be a good thing that the Council of State is trying to keep a little more order and control in its own office, because then we're dropping this. The representative of Sortevik is quite right in his argument. In the light of the answers given to the Committee, we believe it would be appropriate for us to have a review of the fund's economy and also to have the opportunity to gain more transparency in it. Then it must be so that it is the Council of State that makes sure that this information comes directly to the Storting, and that we should not have to experience that the fund is about to live its own life and give the information directly to the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1508	This matter is getting a remarkable twist, and I felt the need to take the floor after the representative Lyngstad referred to the treatment of the exchange and cathedral message. We wanted to close the fund that time, because we saw that everyone used the fund's return for all the good purposes that each party had to have. We wanted to go on at the time of the inflation adjustment of the fund's capital. We now find those wordings in the Sem Declaration, and we can definitely join them. After agreeing on the budget before Christmas, we suggested that we close the fund again and get it restated, which we finally had a majority in favour of, but that it should raise all these problems, we find remarkable. And when we're talking about the use of the fund's profits, which we wanted to use to preserve the fund's capital – because that's what we really wanted; part of the fund's capital is actually the fund's property that cannot be sold because it's national values in what cannot be sold out – neither should it be particularly remarkable. But I find it quite incredible that others, who are so-called cultural carriers to a far greater extent than the Progress Party is going to be, do not want to attend to this. When it comes to the performances and funding of them, I seem to remember that 20 performances and ten slide shows were originally held. Now all of a sudden we have 30 performances and no slide shows, and that's once again a remarkable thing. But the closure of the fund, the fulfilment of the Sem declaration, respect for decisions taken in this room, remains to be seen whether they will be effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1517	When it comes to Karita Bekkemelm Orheim's characteristic of my position, I will strongly distance myself from it. The representative would like to criticize me, which may also have happened occasionally – that's okay enough – but to talk about the office I take a great distance from. Then I can inform the assembly that, when it comes to the follow-up to decisions that are on inflation adjustment, it comes to the Spring Storting, in May-June. It'll be a matter of your own. It's for the Stortinget to be treated. So the Progress Party has also clarified that these money is going to be taken out before. Of course, I'm going to do that, so these ten slide settings are going to work. To put it this way: The Norwegian church sounds will be pleased with the decision – there is no doubt – when the Progress Party has also prepared the order of its decisions. It is obvious that one takes into account the decisions that are being taken, and it is obvious that we are presenting to Storting the matters that a decision has to be submitted to. But having a full review of the fund and the use of the fund I think is unnecessary, based on the debate you had last year, when the whole fund's situation was drawn up here in Stortinget and one agreed on a way of using the fund. What I'm going to bring to Stortinget is the inflation adjustment that we've said we're going to come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1528	One may not repeat the other articles of the Council of State. I think that's getting a little bit too advanced. Otherwise, the President will say that the sooner you finish this case, the sooner you prevent the matter from getting bigger than it really is worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1533	I think we have had a discussion now at the end of this matter that has actually derailed the pleasantness of the matter, namely that we are now doing something positive for the Norwegian Church. We're fulfilling an agreement that's been concluded for a while back, which means that the Church is given new positions of achievement, and with the majority decision it's up to here, it might also look as if the Church is being given new ten diacons. All in all, this must be a positive day for the Church as such. Then I would like to return to the post of the representative Sortevik of the Progress Party, who pointed out that this is actually a matter of fulfilling an agreed labour law agreement between the State and the Preste Association. We fully agree with that. We fully agree with the point that Mr Sortevik made here and that he made in his remarks. That is why we were also very concerned about having this agreement brought to port already at the budgetary procedure last autumn, and we are of course also in favour of the decision that is on the table today. I also want to send a small visit to the representative of Rikvam and SV. When Rikham is very concerned about efficiency and rationalisation as a possible means of mitigation in this area, I also hope that we can remind the representative of it in other matters that will be discussed and debated in this Chamber that there is an important principle that SV will support, similar to both the Right, the Advance Party and other parties in this Chamber who are concerned about this as a general issue in terms of improving the efficiency of the use of taxpayers’ funds and public money use. Otherwise, I think, in part, the attack and the debate that has concerned the Council of State's handling of this matter, from my point of view in any case that belongs to the debate, is a bit on the sideline. In fact, I think the Council of State is obliged to take up with Stortinget how to interpret a big decision. Through the discussion that has been here today, I see it as positive that we have been given a clarification on both the previous decision and the interpretation of today's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1544	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1547	It was the Council of State's response that made me take the floor again. I just want to greet the Council of State with the message that of course I have nothing to postpone at her position. But there is no doubt that there is something to postpone her reply today. I notice that the Council of State is so hairy that she can't stand the Stortinget asking questions in relation to the information the department itself has provided. That's of course allowed to do. But I want to say that I actually think that we could have been saved for that form. In relation to a matter in which we are all concerned about finding a good solution, I had hoped that the Council of State could have handled this in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1557	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1564	Is that absolutely necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1567	Yes. [[More protests from the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1575	I've actually been clubbing. No pay had plenty of opportunity to raise hands before I clubed. It must therefore be very necessary – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1578	There are two aspects to the positioning of this matter that amaze me – and even more because it has been left in several positions by the Church, Education and Research Committee during the last week a general reference to the budget work of the Stortinge, which, for my part, I will not regard as a completely correct description, and, secondly, not as a commendable way of speaking to other trade unions in Stortinget. It is said that during the usual budgetary procedure in the autumn, there are severe restrictions, but then, when the turn of the year is over, it is almost free to carry out the disposals a trade committee would like. I think that must be a real misunderstanding of the Storting's budgetary system. That is why I would ask that neither the Church, Education and Research Committee in future speak in this way in its positions. The second is a small heart attack with regard to the Information Society fund. It is a debate that has been going on for a number of years, both in the previous enlargement period and during this enlargement period. If I have understood correctly, the number of committees will now include ten new slide shows, not at the profit, but at the deficit – the negative return – of the Information Service fund. Nor can it be a particularly praiseworthy way of covering the skin. I would also like to point out that it is probably directly contrary to the Constitution § 106, which explicitly states what the Information Service's fund can be used for and not used for. There it is used the phrase «for the Best of the Spirituality». And if you don't count deacons into the "spirituality," you're going to have some problems. But my main point is that it cannot be sustainable to resolve this debate on the use of the Information Society's fund by even beginning to cash the deficit into the fund as the way of covering current expenditure on the Church budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1587	For its part, the President wishes to state that he understands if the committee's representatives feel that they are now being addressed, for most people have used their opportunity to speak twice, and then the new question is brought to the end of the debate. But the President does not intend to reopen the debate. See. comments on the proceedings at the end of the meeting, page 2534 That is when the debate on case No. 8 finally over. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1599	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no wetting basis is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1655	In Case No. No wetting basis is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1747	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1766	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before a meeting is cancelled? Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1773	I ask for the floor of Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure on a right to appeal. As the Progress Party perceives it, the president in the last case to be dealt with had the club and declared that the case had ended. Then, however, the representative Inge Wohnning got the floor, and he made a strong attack on the church and education committee. When our fractional leader, Arne Sortevik, who was entitled to one post under the Rules of Procedure, asked for the floor, he was denied the floor. The same thing apparently happened, after what I was told, also other members of the committee who wanted to attend the Inga Wohnungs posts. I have not received any printing, so I cannot fully confirm this, but that is what I have been informed. In any case, I ask the President to ensure that when a case is closed and closed, one cannot have any special advantages for individual representatives and refuse other representatives to respond to what is claimed by one representative from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1782	The President understands that someone is in doubt about whether No pay asked for the word before the president had clubed or not. I was in doubt myself, but I let the doubt come in for a reward. He then got the word. The representative Sortevik was up here and asked if I would open a new debate. I wouldn't. The representative of Sortevik could have asked for a line, he didn't. If anyone feels that you were being run over, the president regrets that. It is quite obvious that no one should have any special treatment. Otherwise, the representative did not raise issues that did not affect the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1787	After all, when a matter has been declared closed, no more few words can be spoken. If one more is given the floor, the debate will not be closed. It's not like in Stortinget that you put a line. Here the debate goes right up until the President declares it closed. When the President allows an intervention, the statement that the debate has been concluded is also null and void, because the debate has continued. According to the Rules of Procedure, Arne Sortevik had a so-called short remark. He had had two posts, and he has occasion for a brief remark of one minute. At the same time, other members of the Committee had, of course, full opportunity after the Inge Wohnungs post to ask for the floor if they had speaking time again on the occasion of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-30.ana.ud188e1792	The President fully agrees that he did. Arne Sortevik asked if I would open the case for a new round. I said no to that. I did not register that Arne Sortevik asked for the word either for a short comment or for a reply. Otherwise, the President may agree that it was not right to give Inge Wohnung the word. It is not uncommon to record movements that can be either to raise your hand or to iron out your hair, that the president misunderstands and thus gives the person the word. I can assure the representative Hagen that, whether in the case of Inge Wohnning or Carl I. Hagen, no one will speak hereafter after the matter has been closed and the president has clubbed.
