ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e31	It was nice to hear the representative Lyngstad's closing posts in the morning meeting today on the issue of the prohibition of advertising in textbooks. He spoke well about the matter, and stressed how important it is to have some areas where children and young people are protected from the strong power of advertising. The majority of the Committee, which consists of all but the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, clearly states in the vote that it is particularly important that the school does not become a place of marketing and commercialisation. When Lena Jensen and signed promoted this document no. The 8-proposal for a ban on advertising in textbooks, it was just to emphasize that we need an advertising-free zone, namely the school. Children and young people are put under heavy pressure by strong market players 24 hours a day. Teacher books have an authority that gives advertising in these a special influence. We therefore believe that advertising in textbooks reinforces the message of advertising in a special way. We don't need advertising to finance educational material. We want primary education to be free of charge, and we also believe that secondary education should be free of charge. So it's public responsibility to finance textbooks. It has been clearly expressed many times by the Centre Party, together with other lots. The Nyborg Committee’s position ‘Rising with a price tag?’ suggests that a ban be imposed on advertising in textbooks and teaching materials in primary schools. A minority in this setting suggests that it also apply to high school. After hearing Lyngstad's contributions, I understand that the Christian People's Party has not changed its view of the matter, and that they want to save children in school for commercial influence, which advertising in textbooks can give, and I think that's very good. The government is working on the follow-up to the position of the Nyborg Committee, and it is hoped that the Christian People's Party's vision, presented through the representative Lyngstad in the morning meeting, will also become clear in the government's work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e44	It is clear that children today have a more and more commercial everyday life. They are exposed to advertising in all areas where children exist. It is extremely important that the school participates and helps children to have a critical and conscious relationship with advertising. We achieve that not only by protecting them, but also by making this an important part of education. We in the Left have great faith in children. We also have a lot of faith in adults at school, and teachers and principals are very concerned about this. I think that this debate about advertising in school books has been destroyed by the school election rhetoric that makes you have fronts – which in this case doesn't really seem to be as steep as they might sometimes work when we see the school election rhetoric. Of course, we must not be in a fanatical regulatory regime that prevents business from working together in areas where this is tricked, and where the school's management, parents and everyone else find that it's tricked. Nor can we get into a fanaticism that makes a child unable to open an Internet page from the school classroom. The business collaboration that we're talking about here is the cooperation that has always been, also at Øysletta kindergarten, where I went, where we had Tine milk cards, where we always got rulers from the savings bank, and where the schedule was paid by the cooperative team. But the Left also believes that it is important that common sense can be managed locally. Today, the principal has “editorial responsibility” for what is called school baggage. That means that all that's in what the children have at home is the principal's responsibility. I believe that the management of a school, parents and others locally can also manage the common sense. It's important that the children are screened, but it's also important that the school is in reality, and that the school uses energy to teach the children to relate to the reality outside of school. But the Left will also stress here in the debate that it is important that the public school be free, and it should never be dependent on advertising revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e62	I'm like most of the others here in the belief that the school won't be any venue for marketing. But at the same time, I think it is important to highlight another side of this debate, namely that we need to have a sober relationship with what we are really talking about. We're talking about a situation today where we don't have the law against advertising in textbooks, and we're also talking about a situation where the school isn't a very big venue for advertising-funded books either – there's almost no such situation. What, on the other hand, is a challenge in a society that is becoming more and more commercialized is to train children from an early age to drive critical sorting out the information you receive. You get much, much more information in today via channels other than textbooks than you just got five or ten years ago. The situation in Norwegian school today is that so much information comes through the Internet, professional journals and other types of media, as well as textbooks. Then I think it is important to be aware that we are now discussing whether we are going to make laws and rules for a situation that does not exist and that is purely hypothetical. The fact that we do not have a legal ban today has led to good cooperation between schools and businesses in certain areas, but it has by no means widened to become a problem. Then I also think it's important that we don't go in and regulate things like per. Today is not a problem. I think we should concentrate on regulating what is actually a problem, where the legislators really have a job to do. Of course, I fully agree that the school should not be made a marketing arena, but at the same time we must be able to keep two things apart and not adopt laws and rules for what is not a problem today. The fact that we don't have a law, and the fact that at the same time it's not a large amount of advertising-funded textbooks, just proves that the school's management and teachers have taken the responsibility of being critical of that type of textbooks. So it hasn't become a problem, and that's why I don't think we should be so terribly afraid of what can happen. I think we have to be very good already when the children are very young, to teach them to run critical information search. It was something I learned more and more from when I began to approach the time when I was going out of high school – it's actually not that many years ago. It's something that's becoming more and more important. The debate is important, but we must not adopt legal rules for something that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e79	I did not get all of Lyngstad's posts with me, but it has been referred to me, and I understand, also on the post of the representative, Skjelaaen, that the Progress Party was given a little visit – therefore another post. This becomes a rather realistic debate, and I wonder how those who now appear to be eager followers of a ban really relate to reality, how they relate to the growing use of ICT in schools out to the real world, where there is a flood of different forms of advertising related to the information available through the ICT world. I wonder what the eager ‘prohibitors’ intend to do to stop that influence. It's said that we need a free zone, but in reality, it's going to be very difficult to implement it. The reality of today's world is that advertising in school books is permitted under law. It's been used on a modest scale, it's been used with reason. I would like to say that it is used on a modest scale because, unfortunately, in our view, the scheme is too little known. It could have been used with the intelligence and understanding of much more schools and much more students to the joy of much more students. We need an advertising-free zone, it's said by the "prohibitors." What we need is a knowledge-providing school. We from the Progress Party see the Christian People's Party here as being keenly concerned with prohibition rather than being active proponents to open up – open up to competition for students, open to independent schools and open up to a wide range of instruments where we leave most of the reason, the wit and the sense of those who are set to run the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e90	I think that the last speeches and the political positions and leadership expressed by the representative Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party are precisely the best argument for why we should have guidelines – good guidelines – that set limits on sponsorship and advertising in our schoolwork. In the Christian People's Party we want a free elementary school. There is then no need to facilitate forms of funding based on more sponsorship and advertising, in order to run a good school. Here the Progress Party meets itself at the door, when questions can be asked about whether they want a free school at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e97	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e113	This case concerns a Document No. 8-proposals submitted by representatives Evje, Sortevik and Sandberg, where they want to introduce an unhidden school complaint body. There is broad consensus in the Committee that, in the future, there will have to be work to ensure the rights of students in school. We are often confronted with examples from students who feel that their rights are being neglected, and frustrated parents can sometimes meet up at school with lawyers. Such stories open up perspectives for even greater inequality in school -- great inequality between the students who can put law enforcement behind their demands, and the students who can't. The majority of the Committee also emphasises that children and young people are among the citizens of the country who do not have the right to vote and should therefore enjoy a more stringent protection against their rights. The development of school organisation, with more individualised training, will set new requirements for parents and schools. Here it is important that those homes that do not have so many resources to back up their demands will also meet the requirements they have in terms of good education for their children. Nevertheless, the majority of the Committee believes that this is one of the aspects that the Government should address in the discussion of the working environment of students and students, and we want the input from the proposers and the majority of the Committee to be put into that work. The majority would like the matter to be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e130	The question of school ombudsmen is neither a new issue nor a new issue. On the contrary, several counties have set up student offices for secondary schools, among other things. the Nordic, Northern and Akershus counties. The student representatives as they have worked have done their work on a free and independent basis, and the feedback so far is largely positive. On the basis of the experience already gained with this type of representative, but also on the basis of enquiries from parents and students as well as my own experience in school, I addressed in February this year a question in the Stortinget to the Council of State whether the Council of State would take the initiative to test out a school representative scheme such as an unwarranted Board of Appeal and contact body for pupils and parents who do not reach the school through ordinary channels. In this context, I allow myself to quote parts of the Clemets response: ‘I see it as positive that students are set up in secondary education, and believe that this can also be an idea for municipalities to try out for primary school. That a little different models are being tested, I think they are exciting."And then on:‘This school ombudsman can be a supplement or something that we can see in the context of current schemes. I agree that we should now take a positive view of the measures being taken around here." It announced a review of the public oversight systems for the school sector that have already been announced by the Council of State and the unprecedented positive responses and good attitudes previously expressed by the Council of State, among others. in relation to the problem of bullying in school, I think this matter is already in a good track. I find reason to stress that a common state agent for the whole country in this context does not necessarily need to be the most appropriate or the only right and sensible. On the contrary, it may be beneficial for municipalities or municipalities to jointly test alternative solutions. It is also in line with the Government's broad desire for diversity and freedom of choice in all areas of society, and not least the school. Finally, I feel justified in stressing that regardless of ombudsman arrangements, there is a mutual commitment in the school community between school, school and home. It must never be the case that various representatives are to discharge their own responsibilities both in relation to school and in relation to the responsibility for their own learning, and not least in regard to conduct which does not prevent learning for either themselves or their fellow student. I hope that this personal responsibility for the individual student will also be agreed by the proposalers from the Progress Party, regardless of the nuances in view of further work with the representative and the complaints body for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e148	Student representatives for the school – one representative in each state – will hardly replace what is in the Progress Party proposal for an unhidden school complaint body with great legitimacy and competence. One of the reasons for the need for a complaint body is that, for example: the national education offices in the different counties appear to interpret the training law in a very different way, and this affects the legal certainty of each student. The aim of the proposal is to ensure legal certainty in relation to training, the training environment, among others. school buildings – and school issues in general. Furthermore, the aim is to ensure the school's credibility by a stand-alone body doing well to ensure that it was acted directly by the school. Today, we see many examples of high school credibility. A complaint body avoids exciting and emotional attacks from both sides, which will not serve the training at all. Firstly, the Ombudsman will take care of the individual student and the obvious need for independent school and legal assistance. Secondly, it is also about opening up access to provide parents with security of access to unwarranted knowledge of school-based issues, without this security being linked to expensive law-enforcement and long-term legal proceedings. The reason why I consider such a argument necessary is the recognition that school and school staff have always had the power to define their pupils and parents. There has never been any question of a definition other than that given by the school. This monopoly we must try to distribute in an experience of equivalence between the parties. It is laid down in law that parents are responsible for the growth, training and education of their own children, and then the majority of the majority of the population must also allow ordinary parents to receive the necessary assistance and assistance they need. Thirdly, there have been regular complaints in the media by teachers’ organisations and by teachers’ trainers about the black coloring of the school. I hope everyone sees that the creation of an unhidden body, an agent for the school with great professional weight and legitimacy, will make such a black paint impossible. Let me first refer to a recent situation described by the Swedish press, about the risk of cancer in the consumption of some food. It should be clear that people have a legitimate claim to know the perspectives of their private eating habits. Nevertheless, this was attempted subdued in order not to frighten the population. When it comes to mission responsibility, I want to go a little further. I would argue that society has a responsibility to support parents in giving children the opportunity to become responsible adults. I would assume that a similar independent body could have highlighted the decisions made in relation to a young person, with the disastrous consequences we are reading about in a small city in Germany. This is something that may have evolved over time between a school and a student, when the newspapers represent a father who was not at all aware that his son had been expelled from school, or that his son had been put down two steps earlier. The descriptions show that there is no such body for the care of all parties involved. Bullying is an assault, but as with many other types of assault, it is impossible to end the obscenity. There is bullying both among adults and children. Adults bully each other, and they bully children and youth. Children and youth bully adults, while bullying each other. When it comes to bullying, it seems like the ideal is the adult bully, and this gives the bullying the legality of the younger ones. Even in older institutions, they bully each other. That's a pretty scary perspective, isn't it? The inherent problem of bullying is an absolutely important field of work for such an agent. There's an ever-increasing bullying problem in school. No one can say that they have never heard of bullying. A lot of money has been spent over many years to stop or reduce bullying. Despite this, serious researchers warn that the scale of bullying is increasing, and that the degree of gross bullying is increasing the most. It may seem that all the efforts seem to have gone down. In such a climate, there is a alarming need for a body that students, parents and the school can address. It is also important for legal certainty that an outside body can take care of the victims if they feel and feel that the school does not take their enquiries seriously. In some cases, it has been shown that the school is more concerned with protecting itself than with meeting and helping those who are exposed to bullying at school and at work. I am pleased that everyone is taking a positive view of the proposal – initially – but I experience a great deal of frustration and hopelessness by not having contributed so far with active support. Finally, I would also like to point out the personal and social costs of violence and traumatic experiences for both students, personnel and institutions. I would ask that this proposal be seen as an attempt to start a new form of prevention, and that you do not always limp after what is actually happening. Finally, I would like to address the proposal by the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e180	Ursula Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e202	We live in an increasingly international and globalised world. Linguistic knowledge and knowledge of different cultures are becoming increasingly important. The labour market is becoming more and more international. Knowledge acquired through study abroad will be a major advantage in the future work. A hundred years ago, an American-British medical professor, William Osler, said as follows: ‘Let youth, especially those who want to become academic teachers, go abroad! At home you can find clinics and laboratories that are as good as anyone in the world. But abroad you can find more than you're looking for. You can learn to understand others better, get higher ideals, maybe a bit of a world culture." It is well known that exchanges of students and learning forces between different countries and cultures strengthen the knowledge base in general and bring about new knowledge, creativity and understanding. A key point of exchange is that there should be an intermediate and knowledgeable investment in an increasingly short-range world, more current languages, increasing need for cultural understanding, communication, dissemination of information and new opportunities for creativity. Students are tomorrow's researchers. In a global world, investing in students is a direct investment in development. Students are also the social builders of the future, who will bring their theoretical and methodologically critical education into the profession. It is the task of universities and universities to contribute to the emergence of positions on cooperation, equivalency and respect in this way among the foreign and Norwegian students, as a good basis for development. It is a clear objective in higher education that as many as possible take part of their education at foreign institutions. However, the vast majority of Norwegian students take foreign residence in Western countries, while similar cooperation with developing countries is mainly limited to visiting us. At the same time, Norwegian society has problems coping with cultural differences in migration from the south and the east. These include: therefore a great need to strengthen an equivalent exchange of both students and apprentices with institutions in the south and east. Knowledge, knowledge-building and the uptake of cultures other than our Western world is an essential but not a forgotten moment in our own development, and not just a development offer we can give to the other countries. It should therefore be a clear objective that several students choose to study also in the south and east, and that we can realise student exchanges to the south and east in line with the exchange Norway has with institutions around the western world. In order to cope, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen cooperation with educational institutions in these countries. One of the reasons why relatively few students choose to study, for example: non-resident institutions are problems with the recognition of weights from foreign universities and higher education institutions. Few foreign students will invest a lot of time and money in a study stay in the south or east if they are not able to recognise the weights in Norway. If we're going to get more Norwegian students to prefer study stays in the south and east, they have to feel sure that what they're studying is getting full pay when they return to Norway. In order to guarantee it and give them prior approval, we need to know the subjects, subjects and study programmes of the host institutions in detail, and they need to be compared in scale and level with our own. With a prior approval from the home university, the Norwegian students will receive loans and grants from the Loan Fund, as the scheme already works for the exchange students. Another important tool to increase the number of students in the south and east must be to establish a student exchange programme for developing countries in line with what we have with the EU, ERASMUS. It is paradoxical that we have several bilateral exchanges arrangements with the EU, the United States and Australia, but almost only unilateral arrangements for Africa, Central America and South-East Asia. ERASMUS cooperation focuses on student and teacher exchanges with the EU for universities and higher education. What is needed is an equivalent south-east ERASMUS in which the Quota and NORAD grant programmes can be included, but it must be mutual and must include, in addition, exchanges of learning skills. A number of cooperation programmes include teaching skills from Norwegian universities being provided by a cooperation partner in the south. However, it is rare that teaching forces from the south are involved in our teaching and thus make their knowledge and views directly available to our students. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the teaching of foreign teachers in Norway. Following the new funding model, incentives for internationalisation shall be provided. One instrument may be to provide increased resources to the institutions of students coming from or going to land in the south and east. It is important that opportunities are offered to travel to all types of abroad, including the Nordic countries, Europe, the rest of the West and the South and East, in all programmes of study offered by universities and higher education institutions. In addition, we can improve the organisation of studies in Norway. Today, there are some English-speaking programmes where only foreign students are addressed. This often leads to a small integration of foreign students into the Norwegian student community. Such programmes should be made up to a greater extent of a mixture of Norwegian and foreign students, so that both Norwegian and international students come into the same student environment and we get a stronger internationalisation at home. In addition, other challenges arise. The language test, the TOEFL test, can be a major barrier for students from non-English-speaking countries in the south and east, both because the test is expensive and because it is usually only possible to take the capital in a number of countries. We should look at whether universities and colleges can make agreements on free English tests in institutional agreements with universities in the south and east. There are already good examples of successful North-South cooperation, among others. a very successful cooperation between the University of Tromsø and the University of Ngaoundéré in North Cameroon. The cooperation project is called Anthropos and includes, inter alia: building a large visual and written knowledge centre, doctoral studies, women's research and visual cultural studies in Tromsø. This study in Tromsø takes up 50 pst. students from the south and east every year, and some of them come from Cameroon. Norwegian and foreign students cooperate on the different projects. Visual cultural studies are also planned at the University of Cameroon. We need more of these good cooperation projects. In this interview, I have stressed the great importance of increased cooperation with educational institutions in the south and east, pointing to challenges and sketching out some proposals for cooperation. My challenge to the Council of State is to look at what can be done to stimulate more universities and colleges to establish cooperation agreements with educational institutions in the south and east, and to make it easier for several Norwegian students to travel to these countries to study.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e245	There is an important aspect to the internationalisation of the Norwegian higher education representative Trine Skei Grande when she asks what can be done to stimulate increased student exchange and other contacts with countries in the south and east. As you know, the government is in the process of implementing the decision of the Stortinge on the quality reform of higher education. The main points of the reform are to strengthen the quality of higher education and research, to establish closer cooperation between teachers and students, to develop alternative evaluation reforms and to change the grade structure of a 3+2 course of Bachelor and Master. An important part of the reform is to promote the internationalisation of higher education. Among other things, institutions are required to facilitate students to take part in their foreign education, and institutions are required to work more effectively to become attractive to foreign students and researchers. While I want more foreign students to go to Norway, I want Norwegian students to use the opportunities available in EU education programmes and North Plus cooperation to a much greater extent than is the case today. The Ministry is currently working on the follow-up to this part of the quality reform as well. But I agree with the interpellant that it is desirable to increase exchanges with countries outside the circle of the western, mainly Anglo-Saxon regions. In order to contribute to enabling students from developing countries and countries in Central and Eastern Europe to study in Norway and to acquire skills in their country of origin, the quota programme has been established. 1 100 students are at any time studying in Norway. It is financed by the quota system. The scheme was evaluated in 2001 with positive targets. The evaluation points out that the quota system has been a door opener for the cooperation of Norwegian universities with countries in southern and eastern regions. The quota programme has gradually evolved into an important instrument in the internationalisation work of the Norwegian institutions, and the Ministry now encourages universities and colleges to conclude cooperation agreements with institutions in the home countries of the quota students and to recruit new students through these agreements. Experience so far also shows that the scheme contributes to attracting Norwegian students to countries other than Western European countries. Three separate research and education cooperation programmes have been established with Russia, South-East Europe and the candidate countries to the EU. The Norwegian Research Council and the University and Higher Education Council administer these programmes, which stimulate both research cooperation and student exchange. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will establish a bilateral exchange project with the candidate countries into the EU as part of the Action Plan for the Accession Countries to the EU. There's three million left over. kr from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget in 2002 for such student and teacher exchanges. The Baltic countries and Poland are priority countries in this context. We expect such a project to be an engine to stimulate increased cooperation between universities and higher education institutions in Norway and the Baltic Sea countries. I also joined the North2north mobility programme in 2002 under the auspices of the Arctic Council and the Arctic University. This is a mobility programme between countries in the north and has a different profile from the EU education programmes. The programme focuses on students with a background in the indigenous population and prioritises disciplines with an arctic profile. This programme is also a spice layer between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research. In 2000, the Ministry of Education and Research signed an agreement with NORAD on cooperation in education assistance to increase Norwegian activity in the field of education in the south. Norwegian educational institutions are involved in this agreement in an operational manner. They also participate in the NUFU assistance programme, funded by NORAD. The programme was evaluated in 2001, and the report shows, among others: the programme inspires and facilitates Norwegian students to take part in their training at institutions in the south. Within the Nordic Baltic and North-West Russia scholarship scheme, under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Ministers, support is also provided for the establishment of new and existing academic networks and networks within the voluntary sector. Within academic networks, culture and society, Nordic languages and environmental technologies are priority areas. Following a comprehensive evaluation of the scheme, new Nordic mobility programmes in education and research will be established in 2004. Sectoral cooperation in education and research will continue as a programme of its own beyond 2004. The scheme will have an interest in Norwegian students and universities, and will help promote student and teacher exchanges between the Nordic countries, Russia and the Baltic States. I can certainly say that Norwegian higher education institutions are systematically developing bilateral agreements with non-European institutions. The activity is increasing, but should be further expanded. With the Quality Reform, I want to focus on Norwegian students taking part of their education abroad. One of the reasons for this is that exchange students statistically show a greater tendency to study in countries other than Western and Australian. The funding scheme through the Loan Fund facilitates such student exchange, and figures show that during the 2000–2001 study year, 1100 Norwegian students attended the entire study programme in countries in the south and east. At the same time it was approx. 1,200 who took part in their education in the same countries. This is a development I want to stimulate further. It may be beneficial that a separate component of the new funding system is included in the quality reform that promotes institutions with DKK 5000 for each incoming and outgoing student. The government has the same objective as the representative Skei Grande. It is important that Norway, as a nation, encourages students to develop language, cultural and social skills with countries in the south and east. I would strongly encourage Norwegian educational institutions to strengthen contact with universities in these areas. The measures I have informed about above should make a good contribution to achieving this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e268	I am very pleased with the answer I received from the Council of State, which showed a sincere commitment to this page. I think it's important that we here in this room maybe try to think of other ways to develop this area, than what SV suggested, namely using coercion. It's a challenge for the Government not just to look east. Today, we have good programmes within the EU, and it is important that our development continues not only in the EU's new candidate country, but also that we have a searchlight to the south, and perhaps even further to the east. Then there are also two other arguments that are at the back of my interpellation. It is clear that many people come here to the country who also have problems getting their education approved. Increased cooperation between educational institutions around the world, I think, will improve the possibility for people to get their education approved when they get here. The second is that I think it is important for the attitude to knowledge in other countries. I'm a little impressed that I spent the weekend in Russia, a country that doesn't have – I feel – the same standard of living with Norway, to say it nicely. Nevertheless, there is a country that is at the forefront in terms of, for example, drug use. cultural education, research and a number of other areas. You can travel to St. Petersburg and see what that city has to offer of education in art and culture. It's all in front. Therefore, it is important for countries and important for attitudes towards people that we also be able to exploit and look at the opportunities that such cooperation leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e279	I just want to make a few brief comments. First thanks for the positive response to the article. I fully agree with the representative, Skei Grande, that we can't just look east. When it has been necessary to look a little east in recent months, it is because Norway – because we are not a member of the EU – was actually excluded from good cooperation with some of the candidate countries. We did not enter into the same kind of cooperation that could be between candidate countries and EU countries. But that's what we're now helping to correct by ourselves contributing with the funding through the mechanism I mentioned in my post, with the 3 million. kr granted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I also agree with the representative of Skei Grande that this, with the recognition of education, is a challenge, especially in the case of full-time studies in other countries, and perhaps countries that are a little distant from us. However, I have been told that there is a basis for looking more optimistically at the future in the sense that a better and newer approval database is being developed here in the country. We simply have better information and better basis for such approval and also for making it faster. I think it is very important also for reasons other than purely educational policy. The third, that there are also high-quality studies in other countries, I fully agree. Now, like many other countries, we also create a quality body, or an accreditation body, which can learn more about the quality of our own education. And then it becomes more transparent. I think that's what I want to tell you that we have a lot of high-quality education, but that we're not on top in all areas, and that in some areas there are certainly countries that are far ahead of us and that can offer studies that we can't offer in the same way. We're getting more and more knowledge of this. This also applies, of course, to countries in the east and south.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e290	There is a broad consensus that it is positive that several Norwegian students take education abroad. This is precisely why it is important for us in the future education policy to make it possible for more people to take part in their education abroad. It gives us the benefits of getting a real exchange, and the students take their experiences back to Norwegian universities and colleges. Training institutions must link more closely to student exchanges. In examining the quality reform, the Committee pointed out that training institutions need to be financially stimulated. For us in the Workers' Party, it has also been important that the study funding for students abroad should be so good that there is a real opportunity for all students regardless of their financial background. My impression, as I said earlier today, is that Norwegian students are attractive to foreign educational institutions because of the economy. It is also important, as the interpellant points out, that we have exchanges and cooperation with countries outside Europe, the United States and Australia. It will be an advantage both because it is useful that more learn languages other than English, and because we need more knowledge about different cultures. I think the council had a lot of good input into a follow-up on the subject. At the same time, internationalisation requires students and researchers from other countries to find it attractive to come to Norway. There are now far more Norwegian students leaving than foreign students coming to Norway. It's no surprise when you're looking at geography, language and size. It is also linked to the fact that our students are mobile and have good conditions for student financing. If we are to be able to attract more students to Norway, it requires Norwegian universities and universities to be able to measure themselves in terms of quality compared to institutions in other countries. It also requires institutions to actively facilitate the reception of foreign students and researchers. In addition, there is one problem I want to address in connection with foreign residence for students. Student legal certainty abroad is a matter that has been treated and discussed to a small extent. ANSA, the Communication for Norwegian students abroad, has given feedback that there is an ever-increasing problem that it is difficult today to obtain legal assistance as a Norwegian student abroad. Among other things, they have registered approx. 80 enquiries a year from Norwegian students abroad with a request for legal assistance. It can be anything from violence and abuse and conflict with institutions to child distribution. Now, when we aim to have as many students as possible stay abroad, this becomes an even more topical issue. It is therefore important that Norwegian students abroad are provided with legal assistance and guidance that they need. I therefore hope that this is a matter that the Government can address, so that the legal security of foreign students can also be well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e303	It is a very important issue that the interpellant, Trine Skei Grande, is travelling. Internationalisation of Norwegian higher education and mutual student exchange between Norwegian and foreign universities is an important matter which is not new at all. For a long time, there has been an explicit national objective to strengthen the mobility of Norwegian students towards abroad. But in this area, as in many other contexts, there is absolute space and the need for stronger efforts and positive incentives. The implementation of the quality reform refocuss the issue on at least 50 pst. Norwegian students shall have a minimum period of six months abroad in their studies. I think the Council's response to the inter-pellant shows that the Government has a positive will for active action in this area. Of course, in the case of student exchanges, it is the student's own choice, both for those who travel out and for those who come to Norway, who are primarily in charge of where student flows are going. But good institutional agreements and good student guidance will also work. For this reason, our apprenticeships have an important role to play in making contact and in concluding exchange agreements, as well as providing the necessary information and motivation for the target groups concerned. At least as important as various agreements, in particular to get students from the south and east to come to Norway, it is that most of the teaching in Norwegian universities is given in English and with the use of English-language literature. There is still a lot of work to be done before the objectives are achieved. Another measure is good funding schemes for both Norwegian and foreign students. I think it will be necessary to assess both the rate in the funding system that goes to each institution and the rate that goes to the individual student, especially in relation to the quota programme. This programme includes, inter alia: the college in the interpellant's own home state, Nord-Trøndelag, good experience with student exchange from the east, more specifically from the Arkhangelsk area. In order to achieve even better some of the objectives that are being addressed, and to which a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has previously joined, I think it would be beneficial to assess whether some of our means of assistance can be used to increase the student exchange from our countries of assistance. It will strengthen links between countries and contribute to empowerment and development in an even better way than today by allowing more students from the south and east to study, while developing mutual knowledge and understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e323	Of course, training opportunities abroad are also positive in the Progress Party. It has many good aspects. Exchange is also good. We should make good and liberal arrangements for both. But the management of students in certain directions of the sky, in the Progress Party, we will take a definite distance from, not to mention old communist dogma goods that either refuse to study abroad or strongly limit the opportunity to study abroad, as we have perceived that SV sometimes thinks highly around. We will certainly distance ourselves from that in the Progress Party. Before taking a complete look at this matter, one should innovate that we need to equip our students at school, the future students both domestically and abroad, with knowledge that makes them not least able to study abroad. It may be one of the major challenges as we read a level of knowledge among 15-year-olds that is not the best. We also need to ensure that the interest in language and not least the language skills of the school are good enough, so that you can actually become a student abroad without too many problems. We also have to make sure that the arrangements for taking language courses when you decide to become a student abroad become liberal and good also financially. Then we'll get to the economics. Those who express great enthusiasm for studying abroad hope that in the future we will continue to work to improve the arrangements applicable to foreign students today and to future foreign students. We can ask questions about whether the fee grant scheme is good enough. At all, in the light of the great oil wealth we have, we can ask questions about whether we have a foreign student scheme that is worthy of our oil nation. It is well known that the Progress Party on its foreign budget, it has been proposed several times, has just bought study places and good financial arrangements as a good example of how to spend money on a foreign budget in the rest of the world with good social returns. We are so sorry that no more parties than the Advance Party will be involved in such a use of oil money. It will be a very good investment for Norway to use a little of the wealth to invite and motivate more students to volunteer, and also provide them with financial arrangements that will make this tempting. Then it can actually be thought that someone is going voluntarily both east and south.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e334	It's an important interpellation Trine Skei Grande taking up. It is very good that there is a broad consensus that several students should take all or part of the education abroad, and that you point out that everyone should have a real opportunity regardless of their financial situation to go abroad and take part of or the entire study there. It is important, and Norway has a relatively good study policy for those taking the study abroad. But it is important to follow them up, for example. those who study abroad and have children. It is important to have knowledge and understanding of other societies and cultures. This is important both for the student himself, for the institute, for Norway and for the country in which the student is located. It is important to strengthen the competence of institutions and to support them financially. Of the 14,000 students who received training abroad last year, and the 4000 who received support for language studies are actually the majority in English-speaking countries. It's a problem that SV early pointed out, that in a way you have an accumulation of students in some institutions. SV does not want to use coercion, and we have never called for coercion against the students. But there are important points, and you have to bet on student guidance, information, such as: a portal online for interested students. Another barrier for students who do not study in English-speaking countries is language. I believe that the department should consider providing support for an entire semester of language studies. Today, only parts of a language course are supported. SV has been actively engaged in internationalisation — getting more students abroad and getting more foreign students home to us. During the examination of the quality reform of higher education, the majority also supported the SV proposal of NOK 5000 in incentives for each student to be admitted and each student to be taken from an institute. It is important to focus on internationalisation, and SV will do so with it, but without coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e349	The interpellant takes up a very topical aspect of education today, namely the internationalisation of higher education, and the Council of State was well aware of its response. There are 15,000 Norwegian full-time students studying abroad this year, and we also have 4,500 students taking part of the studies out. In St.meld. No 19 for 1996-97, on studies abroad, it is expressed a wish that 50 pst. by Norwegian students take part or the whole of their education abroad. This is probably still a good time, although this goal was also followed up in St.meld. No 27 from last year. With increasing cross-border interaction, broad skills building is important. Experience from other countries and cultures also has a self-esteem in itself. The Committee included too many good measures to stimulate studies outside North America and Western Europe. The Christian People's Party was among others with an opinion that studies in poor countries at qualified study sites will help to strengthen the south perspective of Norwegian opinion. In addition, the aim shall be to provide the country with skills which cannot be acquired within the Norwegian education system or which are particularly scarce in Norway. It suggested a 25-million-dollar stimulatory spot. to establish exchange agreements with non-Western European institutions. Often, such studies depend on language courses, and language skills are required. Therefore, language courses are an important facilitation measure for studying abroad. A scholarship to a language course is positive, and this is an important tool for getting more people to study in non-English-speaking countries, but today's language scholarship in four weeks is not enough. Very few students have the opportunity to cover the amount that a longer language course will cost. Today’s language scholarship is therefore not working properly. ANSA has developed a proposal for an organization semester, which I think is very interesting. ANSA represents the 20,000 foreign students. This is an incentive in relation to language studies in order to prepare for the study as best as possible. This is a carrot that can be offered to current students together with Lånekassa. Several students will thus have a real opportunity to choose an education in a non-English-speaking country, in the east and south. This should be assessed together with the measures provided for in the 1997 Single European Act. We need incentives that make this possible. Language skills mean more than just languages. Good and thorough knowledge of a language also means a greater awareness of and awareness of the country’s culture and policies. Students living and staying in a particular country are more likely to acquire this knowledge, based on their own experience. This means good opportunities for developing contacts during the study period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e363	I would also like to stress that there is an important interpellation between the representative of Skei Grande who has travelled, and that is good questions she asks the Minister of Education and Research. After hearing the statements from the Council of State, I wonder if she has fully understood Trine Skei Grande's real intention, because I feel that this is about how Norwegian students can study in the East and South to a greater extent, i.e. the goal of the interpellant is to focus on how Norwegian students can more easily gain access to studies in the East and in the South. The Minister of Education mentions the Quotation Programme, with up to 1 100 students. Then she's clear on – and I think that's very good – that she encourages universities and colleges in this country to make agreements with educational institutions in the east and in the south. I think that's very good. When at the same time there can be some strong financial incentives for institutions to make this kind of agreement, it is also very good. I think there are a lot of barriers that make Norwegian students choose countries like that. are not English-speaking, and where one may not know the education system in the same way as one does in the EU, Australia or the United States. This is why it is so important that Norwegian universities and colleges can conclude special agreements with special educational institutions in the south, so that the student is assured that the training he is taking there also pays off for the study. I think it is great that the Minister of Education so clearly says that this must be done by universities and colleges here in Norway. There's a lot of students going out, and we have an express desire that they take the education or part of the education abroad. But it's a fierce competition. In Australia, there is a very strong marketing to win the students. It is therefore important that educational institutions have good and clear agreements with those institutions that do not otherwise compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e376	The interpellant focused on the east and south, and I think that is a useful corrective to the flows to Anglo-Saxon countries. The Council of State also responds by providing interesting signals on close cooperation in education and research under the direction of the Nordic Council of Ministers, where she is already giving signals that this programme will continue after 2004, and I think it is very positive. I have at all been a little surprised that some Norwegian students are so busy finding educational places far away instead of looking at their neighbourhoods, among other things. in the Nordic countries and in the East. I think we could have mutual benefit from increasing student and research cooperation in this region -- it's actually as relevant as traveling to other continents. I agree with the representative Skei Grande when she addresses the need to harmonise and mutually recognise the level of education, because that is a problem. It's clear that if we had this done, it would facilitate the student exchange. And this challenge I'm glad that the Council of State will address. Contacts and education in Nordic countries also necessarily increase travel costs for these students. It's a cross of thought for me that in the State Loan Fund there are the same constraints and the same rules for travel expenses in Norway as for studies in our Nordic neighbouring country. It is clear that there are some automatic restrictions here. If we are to increase the interest in cooperation in the programmes we have in the Nordic Council context, we must also look at funding, for example. the anti-journal system. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: Will the Council look at the study funding scheme for our students in Nordic countries, thus stimulating increased student exchange in the Nordic countries and our neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e387	This has been a debate largely with honorary words, and that is good. And then there have been some trends in shell words, and they've largely been directed towards SV. We're old-time communists, and we're going into force – whatever it may be. Old Communist I am a little uncertain about what is wrong, but in the case that SV has gone into force, it is a positive error. When we dealt with the big news about the quality reform, we proposed that a variable should be introduced that took into account students in and out, just to try to stimulate. We also believe in the kind of financial incentives. When we dealt with the state budget this year, we introduced this as a variable into the income system for higher education and universities – a positive incentive. What worries me a little bit about this particular measure, is that, given that we also have a variable on weights production, it can be that it can work a little bit against each other. That is, when we try to stimulate more students to leave, that more students are going to take part of the education out, take part of the weights out, it might work against this that each institution is going to produce the most weights possible. So I'll ask the Council of State to be a little obsessive and look a little bit if this can work against each other so that we don't achieve the effect that we want. In addition, it is important for the Council of State to find better orders for mutual recognition of each other's education. There we have a long way to go. This has been problematic in many cases, and there we have to get better, there we have to find schemes that are better than today. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will be able to grasp it. Many government councils have said in the past that we should do it, and it's just as difficult every time, because there are so many interest groups that are opposed. But at least I would recommend to the Council of State to try to cut through and find good solutions, solutions that are effective, so that we get better arrangements, so that it is easier to validate education from abroad. I think the incentives that are here now will work well. And I know that the higher education institutions are engaged in creating educational programmes where part of the education is abroad. So I am very optimistic that we will have better exchanges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e398	The future is international. In the future, I think many children will speak more languages. In the future, someone will have a grandmother who speaks a different language, or parents who have lived in a country with a different language. I spoke to a language researcher a while ago who said that she was, among other things, had researched a family where father was Palestinian, mother was found. Father spoke Arabic to the children, mother spoke Finnish to the children, mother and father spoke English together, and the children spoke Norwegian together, and the children mastered all the languages. The scoreboard has understood me quite correctly. That's exactly the international part of education for Norwegian students I've been most concerned about. I was actually kind of lifted up by this round right here. I believe and hope that we, as politicians in this Chamber and the department management, can be involved in and give status to this work, for everyone here has said that it is important. Everyone here has also said that you don't want to be coerced. And the only thing about communist states is that you actually want to cooperate with them, so they're going to get out of the problems they have. When I was a school office in Oslo, I had some projects. One of my projects was that when I got into a class of many minority-speaking students, I had one wish for the teacher: persuade one of these students to become a teacher! If you can do that, you've done a big job in your teacher's thing. I believe that the management of this country must likewise have a joint project to give status to this type of exchange, to this type of international cooperation. Because I think the students are dry. I think the students will. I don't think the students have an intense desire to come to an English-speaking country. But I think they have an intense desire to become something, and then we have to have a professor, a college teacher, or others who open the door and say, "Here you can become something. Then I think that the application stream is also going to be different. But motivating that this actually gives status to our colleges and universities is a political promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e411	I think this was an uplifting little debate, which I think we have the opportunity to come back to. The Ministry is finalising its work on an internationalisation strategy in the wake of the implementation of the quality reform. Then we will look at all aspects of this, including some questions raised in the debate – although my response to the interpellant was limited to what was the subject here today, namely internationalisation in relation to the south and east. But it's clear that the issue of internationalisation in higher education is much bigger and wider than that, and that's certainly what we're going to get back to. In general, I am very positive about internationalisation, both in terms of students, student exchanges, exchanges of researchers and the work of institutions. Since I'm probably not in danger of being called an old communist – perhaps old but not communist – I might end up meeting SV at a very small point. I think it is important to be aware that Norwegian students appear very attractive to some places of study and countries outside Norway, among others. because our study funding appears to be generous, from the point of view of others. That's why, relatively speaking, we've already had quite a few students out there. I am not against it, and there may be more, but if we compare with other countries, we must note that this is the situation. In my opinion, the main challenge is three-fold: first, to get students — without using force — to take an interest in travelling elsewhere, so that there is not so much concentration. Secondly, more people are interested in taking part-time studies out, not necessarily just full-time studies. And thirdly, to get students here to Norway from other countries – that we too can appear as an attractive place of study. So to what the representative Vidar Bjørnstad brought up, namely the students' legal certainty out there. I can then tell the representative, Bjørnstad, that precisely because our students seem so attractive – since it has been traveled here, I now go beyond the theme south and east – I get many enquiries from other countries, from study places outside, from ambassadors from other countries, etc., who would like to market themselves. I guess that's good. But I can assure the representative, Bjørnstad, that I will then also discuss the issues with a view to ensuring that the Norwegian students who are there have the best possible situation. There may be legal security issues, but also other issues, that ANSA and others report that we should address. So I'll use every opportunity for that. Finally, with language. I agree that this is important. I might think that we should discuss and engage in this issue even a little bit further, namely by looking at the situation of other foreign languages in initial training, which is actually leading the way in which Norwegian students are prepared to study in countries other than English-speaking countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e426	Case No. 8 is then finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e444	I would like to begin by pointing out that during the previous period the Municipal Committee held a hearing on the need for labour migration. We heard many, and one of the clear messages we got was that it was provocative that when we had so many available hands, there was proposed labour immigration. At the same time, consultations showed that Norway needs more labour – not least the NHO, at the head of employers, expressed this. The reality is that the gross unemployment rate at the end of February was 82 500 people, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. 435 000 persons of working age are either reintroduced, in sick leave or on disability leave, notifying the social security system. Every year, almost 35,000 people leave the profession through disability. Most of these never come back to work. Ali and Muhammed are immigrants to Norway. They have university courses in technological subjects from their home country. Ali runs taxis in Oslo, and Muhammad is unemployed. They do not receive work in Norway that is proportionate to their qualifications. Ingrid's a lawyer. She could be a client at the PP office where I worked for many years. She's paralyzed from life down. She's been offered disability benefits today. We fought to get her a worthy schooling and a worthy education, and she got it. Norway needs more labour, it is said. It's important. So how do we achieve this? Employers have a responsibility. In order to make more workers available than today, we need to make better use of the workforce we have, and we need to use the labour reserves that are undoubtedly available. Enterprises should have a conscious and active personnel and recruitment policy for their own and society. How to recruit is important for which and how many interested jobseekers report. It also has an impact on the structure of the individual enterprise's workforce. How to deal with older workers, with employees of young children’s parents, etc., is important for the preservation and exploitation of the company’s competence. How to organise work is important for how attractive it is to work for the company and for how long it is possible for individuals to participate in the world of work. This is important for business to have a conscious relationship with. I know that many business managers and owners will have asked for involvement in management, board composition and recruitment for the rest. I have great respect for the self-determination of ownership, but I feel a responsibility as a politician for the many people who are applying for a job but don't get it. Both private and public employers have a social responsibility to include employed people in the labour market. Employers manage a social good, and they must be aware of this responsibility. Work is of great importance to the individual. Participation in the labour market is important for the individual's economy, for social contacts, for self-esteem and for the possibility of social participation in other areas as well. Moreover, it is an unconditional advantage for society to be allowed to support itself as much as possible by means of its own income. It is therefore important to facilitate as many as possible getting a job. It's about human dignity, equivalency, quality of life, and it's about good social economy. So what can be done? Arrangements to achieve this can be made by public authorities through the imposition and requirement on employers of active and diverse recruitment - quotaing, in many words, as one of the melodies of the time. However, organisation can also take place through cooperation between authorities, workers and employers’ organisations. I believe most in solving the challenge through targeted work with the social partners. Carrots and whips behind the mirror are types of instruments that have been shown to be effective several times. Often the search light is directed exclusively at employers and their responsibilities for the working environment and recruitment. Employers have – and must have – responsibility for this. But it is important for me to remember the participation of employees during interviews and during the recruitment phase, and also the role of employees as trustees and guardians. The responsibility for discrimination, exclusion and freezing lies not with employers alone. My starting point is this: The employer's message about the lack of labour and the figures I mentioned in the introduction is not related. In the social debate, the response to employers’ demands for more hands has been mainly labour immigration. Do not misunderstand: I support the extension of the labour immigration rules, but I cannot accept that this alone is the answer to the challenge. Several of those who already live in Norway have to get to work. The challenge is how and in what way can the Government contribute to this? A shortage of work is a term of honor. I think a more diverse labour market is a necessity. One aspect is that we need more labour in the country, but the development of a multicultural society also requires that all groups are represented at all levels of the labour market. In addition, respect for the individual is one of the most important pillars of our society. Respect for the individual requires the absence of discrimination. Today, ethnic minorities, disabled people, women and older people experience discrimination in the labour market. This is a disease sign that must be actively controlled. Those with willing and free hands experience a ‘depressive deafness’. Ethnic minorities experience negative discrimination in jobseekers’ queues. Disability benefits are offered rather than help for job search and practice. Many women run into the famous glass roof, older workers experience exclusion from work and have difficulty finding new jobs. Then we politicians don't talk much about this. Why? Some claim that our national economy is better off when it has some unemployment. Lack of labour leads to inflation, it is said. I don't want a higher level of interest rates or a higher level of wages and prices. But my dilemma is: unemployment and exclusion from the labour market due to different types of discrimination show that many people in our country need assistance to get to work. We have a responsibility for these individuals, which is a not insignificant group. What do we do? What will the Government do? In Denmark, the problems of discrimination against ethnic minorities in the labour market are considerable. In order to address the problem, the government is considering giving employers the opportunity to volunteer for immigrants for up to one year without paying their wages. The government will pay the salary corresponding to what you would get in the social office. This is an action to create a more diverse labour market, but it is a poor response. The consequence of this is to have a segregated labour market, where immigrants are given a second best stamp by the authorities. I therefore do not recommend that anything like this be transferred to Norway, but I lack concrete measures by the Government to make better use of labour reserves. The Minister of Labour and Administration said to the Business of the Day in October last year: ‘There are many forms of waste of resources. The most serious thing is to leave behind the working capacity and knowledge of the population.’ What does the Government do, and what will it do to improve the management of our human resources and our diversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e481	Mobilising the workforce is one of the major challenges facing Norway. Labour is the most important resource we have, and the shortage of heads and hands is large and increasing, as the representative of Østberg was in it. There is a waste of resources to get people out of work, a waste of resources to use early retirement schemes and a lack of skills to push workers out of the workforce, and a waste of resources not to give workers, senior workers or ethnic minorities a chance in working life. If you're serious about getting more of the resources in this country, the first bid is to make sure that the resources are actually used. Efforts to reduce unemployment and increase the activity of people of working age must be seen in that perspective. There is a good social economy, on which Østberg was involved, and it is a central part of the effort to make more efficient use of resources in Norway. The government's work on mobilising the workforce is based on three main pillars. One is close cooperation with the social partners on objectives, instruments and commitments, both by companies, organisations and administrations. This is primarily done through the intention agreement on a more inclusive working life. The second pillar is the strengthening and reorganisation of those parts of the public sector that have specific responsibilities in this area. This applies in the first row of Aetat, but it also affects, among other things. Social security funds. The third pillar is specific programmes aimed at those groups that represent the largest part of the unused labour potential. I want to say a little bit about each of these arrows. I am not going to go into detail about the contract of intention, since it is well known to the Stortinget; let me remind you that the agreement obliges the parties – the state, employers and employee organisations – to concrete measures to reduce sick leave, prevent exclusion and give groups that are currently outside the scope of employment a chance. The agreement is based on the principle that the workplace is the main venue for the creation of a working life that includes, and the agreement involves the provision by the authorities of several new instruments. The agreement has been concluded for a probationary period of four years from October last year, but is to be evaluated in depth after the second quarter of 2003. In my opinion, it is necessary to refer to clear, concrete results when we come to that evaluation, and I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the parties have a responsibility for a strong and ongoing follow-up to the agreement. In the context of the Memorandum of Understanding, it is also important to highlight the longer-term, preventive work. The best way to prevent both sick leave and exclusion is a targeted effort to create a good physical and psychosocial working environment and a systematic effort to develop life-cycle workplaces where employees are helped into new tasks as interests, qualifications and physical assumptions change. In order to strengthen the preventive work on the work environment, I aim to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and draw this supervision more strongly into the follow-up to the Memorandum of Understanding, and in particular to: developing life-cycle workplaces, the State shall strengthen its overall human resources development. The reorganisation and strengthening of Aetat and other parts of the public sector that have a key responsibility for mobilising the workforce are as mentioned in the second pillar. This is a very high priority task. Aetat must become a modern qualification and dissemination unit organised on the basis of the needs of individual users, who primarily use resources to enable people to get work and who are both experienced as a service organisation. To do so, Aetat must be given greater freedom and responsibility. It's just promoted an odelstningsproposition, Ot.prp. No 70 for 2001–2002, with proposals for amendments to the Employment Act. The proposal is to repeal detailed provisions on the organisation of Aetat, in order to give the establishment great freedom to organise its activities in a proper manner. It will contribute to both strengthening and accountability. At the same time, I have announced that we will propose changes to the funding model for the establishment, with greater input of earnings and activity-based funding. A limited-scale testing scheme will be proposed for the size with effect already for the current year. These changes in Aeta's tasks and framework conditions are the first step in the greater coordination and simplification of public efforts in the areas of employment, social security and social services with which the Government is working and with which the Storting is known. There is a need for far-reaching reorganisation of efforts across this field, bringing together user-oriented services and coordinating agencies and financial support schemes. The examination of alternative models that the Government is working on in this context will place great emphasis on finding a solution that ensures that the work line is stable and that the aim of public intervention should therefore be to maximise the opportunities for participation in the world of work. In addition to strengthening the State actors in the labour market, the Government will assess mechanisms for competitive services and use several actors in the dissemination and qualification of jobseekers. Such providers may be private, they may be municipal, or they may be non-profit institutions. I am convinced that such interaction between state and other actors will provide a better overall offer to users, and that ultimately it will also be in the interest of Aetats and other state agencies. The third pillar of the mobilisation effort is targeted programmes tailored for the individual groups it is particularly important to get to work. Time doesn't allow me to go into detail, and I'm not going to take all the groups for granted, but let me mention some of them in a cross-referenced way. The government is betting on a broad range of instruments to increase the number of immigrants and people with a different ethnic background from the Norwegian out of work. The instruments include a specific introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants: the prioritisation of immigrants in Aetat's labour market measures, improved opportunities for real-time competence assessment, encouragement to government employers to hire more immigrants with a background, and a series of further actions that will be presented in the spring in a new action plan against racism and discrimination. We give the same high priority to individual actions and programmes aimed at people with disabilities. Aetat is required to try more people to re-enter the labour market before disability pensions are assessed, and we are working with schemes that will make it easier for people with reading and writing difficulties to work in the labour market, schemes that facilitate the acquisition of the necessary facilities for disabled workers, and schemes that will prevent the absence of transport services or high transport costs from keeping disabled people out of the labour market. The third group I want to mention is those who are already on disability, but who want and have opportunities to come back to work. In order to contribute to reactivation, from 1 January 2002, the Stortinget introduced a separate wage subsidy for employers who employ unemployees in ordinary employment. In my view, the scheme is an important response to a group which represents both a large and important labour force resource and which, through reactivation, can have opportunities for a much richer and more complete life. I started by saying that mobilising the workforce is a good social economy. It is, however, something far more important than that, namely the ability of individuals to expand, participate in social arenas and become part of social networks. Contributing to participation in the labour market as much as possible is and therefore becomes one of the most important tasks that public authorities have, and it is a task that we will continue to give very high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e511	I would like to thank the Council of State for its contributions. Despite the fact that he expressed that it was impossible to get into the details concretely, he would mention a number of things in his post. I am very pleased with the conclusion, that it will be high on the priority list that as much as possible will come to work. Governments were concerned with three pillars, first cooperation with social partners. He mentioned the Memorandum of Understanding, which aims to reduce sick leave. The second pillar, as I understood the Council of State, was the reorganization of Aetat into a modern qualification and dissemination unit, based on the needs of users. At the same time, the Council of State pointed out that mechanisms for the outsourcing of services would be considered and used by several actors in the dissemination and qualification of jobseekers. We have to be honest. The group I've tried to focus on today is hard to communicate. How does the Council of State want to ensure that Aetat not only gets those who are difficult to communicate? How to ensure that other actors also take responsibility for these groups, and not only humiliate the cream by disseminating those that are easily disseminated and easily qualified? I am also pleased that the Council of State mentioned the third pillar, namely targeted programmes for the individual groups. Here we have great tasks, and I am pleased with the creativity of the Council of State in this area. But I would like to stress that I think that, in addition to this, there is an important job to do as the Council of State did not mention, namely, awareness-raising work at both private and public employers, not least in the state itself, for which the Council of State has a great responsibility. Could the Council of State be specific as to how it is possible to do awareness-raising work, so that we are better able to give these groups work – also in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e524	Thank you for the kind words of the representative of Østberg. I intend to focus on the two key questions that Østberg asked. One is: how can one ensure that the outsourcing of competition does not mean that other than the state agencies are foaming the cream, and that Aetat is left with all the difficult cases? The main solution is to ensure that Aetat selects which parts can be put out to competition and actually uses private or non-profit providers of specific action programmes in the way that Aetat has a long experience. But in addition, I don't think we should exclude the possibility that there are non-profit organisations or private actors that can do a good job of qualification for difficult groups, and can do it better than Aetat. I think that's why we're going to have an open mind because what all users deserve is a system in which those who have the best assumptions for doing a job in relation to these groups actually get out of it. But I think the main model will be that Aetat has the overall responsibility, and that Aetat is essentially the one who chooses what can be put out of competition, and how to get a good interaction with actors other than the state actor himself. When it comes to the issue of attitudes towards groups that do not escape, it is clear that direct action can be taken to influence people. But I personally believe that what works best is the good example. If the state itself treats people with a different ethnic background from the usual, people who are initially disabled and who therefore have problems in the labour market, or employ senior workers, and then it shows that these work at least as well as the 50-year-old men of Norwegian origin who now dominate, it will make an impression. We see, for example: already that once the state has taken the lead in hiring female leaders, this also begins to impress the rest of society. I therefore believe that the most important state can be here is a role model – not in the sense that we talk about those groups that should get into the labour market, but that we show through concrete action that we have faith in them as workers, let go of them and thereby show how well they can work. That is what is meant, among other things: with the line chosen by the Government in insisting that people with different ethnic backgrounds are allowed to enter into competition for positions in the country. I think that's the way that's the most dangerous, even in the long-term, mind-building work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e535	Unfortunately, the rising unemployment rate has not had enough focus lately. It is important to pursue an offensive policy on the line of work. I shall probably not be as kind as my colleague, Mr Østberg, because, in my opinion, the government has a far too defensive attitude to these questions. The working party has recorded this all winter, and now we see a clearly negative trend. It is right that we have a large unused reserve of labour in this country. A total of 70,000 people are unemployed, over 70,000 are on re-employment, many are on sick leave, and more are on the move to early retirement or other social security schemes. For the current year, an average level of well over 8 000 regular labour market action places has been established. The working party suggested increasing these measures by 57 million. kr in the current year’s budget – this is due to new unemployment figures. This did not matter to the Government. Furthermore, the government cut $30 million. Kr i Aetat, and Aetat was thus seen in poorer condition to obtain unemployed jobs. It is important to facilitate a working life with the most space possible. Work ensures that individual income, a social network and, in particular, the ability to use their abilities and resources, regardless of whether you are ill, disabled or associated with an ethnic minority. It is and must be a primary goal that most people can support themselves through their own work. That's good distribution policy. This means that we have to put in forces to prevent increasing unemployment. It's a much better medicine than trying to repair if worklessness gets stuck at a high level. From the turn of the year, changes were made to the law on compulsory pay during the period of leave. There may seem to be some unfortunate results of this amendment. I am aware that the Joint Society, the National Association of Technology Companies and the National Association of Construction Industry, by letter of 18 March this year, have requested transitional arrangements for some industries. I challenge the Council of State to comment on this at the end of the debate. I am concerned about developments in the labour market. It doesn't seem to me that the Government is as concerned. I don't want to spread pessimism, but I want to point to the realistic situation. I expect the government to take this situation more seriously than is the case today. Words are not enough; action is now urgent!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e554	Increased labour supply is essential to provide good opportunities for growth and innovation in Norway. In this country we have large unused reserves of labour. It's under 80,000 unemployed, we have a real retirement age of about. 58 years, and many with reduced functionality are excluded from the labour market. In addition, it turns out that many of our new countrymen have problems finding work based on their professional skills and background. All of these people are a huge resource. Unfortunately, as Uppebøen Hansen says, there is too little focus on this – on the individual's desire and gain by working. But also the socio-economic by helping these individuals into work is forgotten. This government has proposed that the real retirement age should be raised by positive means. Older workers themselves must want to stay longer in work. Therefore, government parties go in to strengthen the tax and pension incentives for work. Government parties also want to strengthen the system of wage subsidies for people with disabilities, so that employers can more easily employ people with reduced functionality. In addition, it is necessary to make it easier to combine old-age and disability pensions with part-time work, and to transform Aetat into a qualification seat to make it easier for people with problems in the labour market to get into work. This country is served by an inclusive working life where people of all ages, sex, education, ethnicity or functionality actively participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e565	Many fine words are used and many good wishes are expressed in the Storting relative to a more inclusive working life. It's good that the Storting takes its discussions when it comes to this topic. It is important that we organize our part of the framework, and that we ask the Government to intensify its efforts at this time. However, the most important thing is done at individual workplaces. The centre party gives its full support to the quote that the Council of State Normann met today again with: ‘There are many forms of waste of resources. The most serious thing is to leave behind the working capacity and knowledge of the population.’ When young people with disabilities are advised to be disadvantaged, when older workers are translated even if they have valuable skills and experience, and when the unemployment among immigrants is still remarkably high, there is serious waste of resources. So today, the Council of State has three main areas. Collaborate with the social partners: united! Strengthening in the form of reorganisation of Aetat: Yes, it is a matter that we from the Center Party will come back to. For the first half of this year, Aetat has not always had good conditions for the trust, security and ability they need to perform good services. So the third special program. There are three questions for the Council of State. First, in this context, he wants to intensify his efforts in relation to the state's own commitment, that is, the state's commitment to employing a more inclusive working life, including opening up 100 pst for workers who are not always 100 pst. effective? My other question is, does he want to be able to accept a certain level of sick leave as part of having more people in the workplace? And third, does he want to be open in connection with special situations that arise, in this case the signals that have now come about the effects of changes in the law on the payroll of permits? Will he review transitional arrangements so that we can retain the competence of the engineering industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e587	I want to start the article by asking the question: do we actually lack the labour force here in the country? A lot of people think so. Business means it. The Minister of Local Affairs believes this and will allow for an increase in the immigration of unskilled workers. The Labour Party believes that before it can happen, we need to do a much better job to get the jobseekers into the job vacancies. The government needs to put in place more and better measures to get the between 70 000 and 80 000 jobseekers we have here in the country to work. In addition to these, there are actually about the same number of job-less jobseekers, and we add those who are on labour market measures, and those who are registered as partially employed, we are actually up to 190 000 job-seekers who want a job. Re-schooling, work training and education are key. The unemployment rate is increasing — the last year has increased by about 10 %. 10 000 persons. It is alarming at a time when very many people are talking about the lack of labour. Unemployment among immigrants is several times higher than today's overall unemployment. The last figures among these groups show a vacancy of about 11 pst. Among the unemployed, there are also many highly skilled people who are in need in the workplace. But they don't get a job. This is not acceptable. A new major study on the conditions of minorities in working life is discouraging reading. Employers systematically discriminate and remove immigrants from non-Western countries. They are not hired because they lack work experience. They are not employed because of education in e.g. Pakistan is not approved or takes unreasonable time to approve. They are not hired because Norwegian skills are too poor. If they get to work, they're the last to get a job, and the first to lose it. Then it becomes completely incomprehensible to the Workers' Party that while on the one hand you do nothing more to get the unemployed immigrants to work, so that they do not live on the state, but can live on their own income, yes, the Government is committed to opening up even more workers. Who wants it to go out on the outside? Those who are available today, of course. They get even more to compete with. Because it is not that ‘new’ immigrants are good in Norwegian, have more work experience or approved training papers in order when they come to the country? And does business like these a little bit better, when they don't like those who are both Norwegian citizens and have education from colleges here in the country and from BI? Now the government has to show that they will do something to get all those who want to work here in the country into the vacancies. There's waste of resources, says state councilman Normann. Then the Workers' Party expects something to happen, not just cut, as we have experienced from this government until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e600	Sign Eyes started by asking if there could really be a major shortage of labour in the future. Forecasts show that in 2010 there may be an unmet need for more than 200,000 workers in Norway, according to the Evening Post, which says on 24 April that the latest Aetat figures show a shortage of 43 000 workers. This concern has come from many teams in Norway for a longer time. This is exactly why the Government has made rules for labour immigration. These are already liberalized. State councillor Erna Solberg has said that everything from next year can be opened up to labour immigration. Having said that, I am pleased that we have an interpellant who has today addressed this very matter of an inclusive working life in looking at how we are going to facilitate the conditions for those who are already in our country. This is no contradiction. Labour immigration is one solution, but clearly – I agree – we should not forget the labour reserve we have in our own country. It is right to worry that more and more young people are falling out of work through disability. It is necessary to be critical for migrants and disabled people to face obstacles and difficulties with the labour market. I agree that concern is not enough and that action must be taken. I am pleased that the Council of State in its statement now says that the first bid is that the resources are actually being used. And to his briefing on the contents of the three pillars: here's a lot of content to realize. I was not long ago at a conference in Madrid. It just went, among other things. to the labour needs of the various countries. Dutch State Secretary Dick Benschop had three points for his country when it came to labour requirements. It can sometimes be a little easy to see what other countries are doing. He said, as a first moment, work starts first at home in his own country. It is important to get people back to work, for example. in the case of minor allocations of disability benefits, better use of older workers and better organisation. That's the first offer, according to Dick Benschop. The second is to put pressure on employers, and the third is to open up labour immigration if the employer can prove that this is absolutely necessary. When a country lacks labour and has challenges, we need to take action in a wide range of areas, and I am pleased that we have a government that sees one way, while also looking beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e611	I am glad that there are more of us in the Christian People's Party who are troubled and impatient. I feel that either the representatives have now spoken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Center Party or the Right, we have had the same unrest, and it promises well. That is why I am pleased with the genuine commitment of the Council of State to this group. I am glad that the Council of State points out that the state itself must be a good role model. My political commitment is precisely justified in the work experience I have through a long life in relation to the disabled, which I have fought for should have their schooling, should have buildings arranged, should have their arrangements completed. It is bitter to see that after fighting through this, through high school, through university education, they meet the wall in relation to work. It's bad to meet the seniors we have in our working life, 45+, which many people think are too old. It's a pleasure to see in the Danish banking community, who discovered that they had gotten rid of everyone with experience, after a time just started adding people over 50, because they had banking experience. It's bad to meet our new countrymen with an education that doesn't get a job because their names are not Olsen, Hansen, Østberg and others. We have to do a job, we have to be worried, and I'm glad that the Council of State has shown this concern today, just as he did when we took up the legislation on mergers of ASVO and PV companies, and how all the time the user's interests must be at the forefront. This is about human dignity, about equality and about justice. The user perspective has to be the important thing and not exactly how we're going to reorganize.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e623	I would first like to thank the representative of Østberg for including this theme in the interpellation and too many good and pointed posts. A few general remarks that I would like to make go to the question of whether there is enough trouble here, or whether there is a need for something more. I think there's a need for something much more, and some of what we're trying to do is actually going from word to action in this area. There's been a lot of words. I wish that part of the Stortinge supported our actions to a greater extent and used a little less words. If we're really going to get large groups of people with disabilities or other disabilities in relation to the labour market out in the world of work, we need a labour market seat that can actually devote itself to the new demanding task of being a qualification seat. Then Aetat has to be reorganized. Then it's very bad that we in the work of reorganizing Aetat are constantly being met with massive criticism from those who otherwise say that they are the warmest friends of that establishment. If Aetat is unable to convert to both a qualification and a placement, we can forget a lot of work trying to include larger groups in the labour market in Norway. At that point, we're going to stand firm on action, and if the opposition believes that more is achieved by spells and words and criticisms, they're going to have to be allowed to do it, but we're going to implement the program to make Aetat a good qualification seat. That's the one reflection I want to do. The second reflection is a little in the extension of the representative Øyes' concern that we are so interested in labour immigration, but do not do anything to get the immigrants who are already in Norway out into the labour market. I would like to ask the representative Eye to read the record from my post, which is very specific about what this Government is actually doing to get more immigrants into the labour market in Norway. Clearly, it is an unworthy treatment of immigrants not to give them a chance in working life in Norway, and it is stupid of us as a society, and therefore we are implementing a series of very concrete measures to get more immigrants out of work. I would like to ask you to study what we are doing, and you can see that this will produce very good results as the instruments come through. In the end, both Oppebøen Hansen and Meltveit Kleppa raised the question of pay obligations in the event of a permit being issued and of the law of the Stortinget that has adopted works as intended. In connection with the letters we received from the TBL and the Joint Association, we have looked into the scheme to see if it can have an unfortunate outcome, and we say in our response that we have sent to the two, that we cannot see that these are effects that were not intended by the Stortinges at the time the scheme was adopted. We therefore see no reason to propose changes to the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e634	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e652	Local small businesses have always been suppliers to the public, especially in municipalities. They have also been key companies in the gradual development of competitive outsourcing, and all local politicians are aware of the debate on municipal purchasing systems and their premises, among others. the maintenance of a local business, which is important for all small communities. Now we see that much of this is changing, and local business is at risk of being out-competitive in a market that will increasingly be based on large purchases and electronic sales channels. The 'E-commerce in public' programme aims at 50 pst. in the value of trade in public enterprises, by the end of 2003. In order to achieve this ambitious goal, it is necessary, inter alia, to: public undertakings require electronic product information from their suppliers and suppliers must be able to meet this requirement in a good manner. Experience has so far shown that very few companies are able to produce electronic information of a kind useful for e-commerce. It's about large companies, which one would also believe had a professional relationship with this challenge. However, resource-intensive and professional enterprises increasingly understand the significance of this, and acquire – or buy – the necessary skills on, for example: e-directory production. For small enterprises, developments appear to be going in the opposite direction. There is a decrease in the proportion of small enterprises that have a website and offer opportunities for e-commerce. Furthermore, we know that small businesses will have major problems in competing for prices and other conditions of framework agreements with the public. Many small and medium-sized enterprises have more than enough of their daily merchants, and do not have the energy to lift their eyes and look at their seas as an e-commerce operator. If these developments continue, a significant proportion of the country’s small enterprises will fall away as suppliers of public enterprises. The reasons will be either the lack of competitiveness of framework agreements, the lack of competence to produce or acquire good enough electronic product information, or a combination of these. On the other hand, the Norwegian government cannot afford to relax the demand and pace of e-commerce. Over-resources are used for the rational processes of both purchasers and suppliers. Prices and other trading conditions are worse than they should have been. The challenge will therefore be to make small and medium-sized enterprises competent in e-commerce. Obviously, companies have a responsibility for this too, but I think it is important and necessary to take a political initiative to ensure that the development of e-commerce does not lead to an undesirable negative development for the many small businesses on which our communities depend. My question therefore becomes what the Government and the Minister of Industry can contribute in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e675	In any other way, many businesses have neither sufficient resources nor competence to use the Internet strategically as a channel for marketing and electronic commerce. In addition, it may seem that many small businesses have used the network without having a clear idea of what it means, and that they have not, after a while, wanted, power or found the accounting to continue. However, this trend contrasts with the person market. While the development of small businesses shows a negative trend, access to the Internet has been increasing. The Nordics are now world leaders in accessing and using the Internet, illustrated by the fact that many people are delivering their online tax returns just these days. As regards the development of electronic commerce, however, it appears to be slower in Norway than in the other Nordic countries. In the European context, we are at an intermediate level, not in the top level, where we should have been. With regard to the Internet connection among small enterprises, this is stable at around 70 pst. after a fall actually since last spring. Some of the reasons for this decrease may be the general downturn. Another reason could be that many companies have gained a more accurate view of the benefits and opportunities of new technologies and electronic commerce, at least in the short term. If companies experience that the market and the customer are not demanding electronic solutions, such investments may seem unnecessary for some. It may also be that many of the smallest enterprises, where the manager himself participates in production, have no resources or competence to use the new technology as a strategic tool for marketing and sales. Electronic commerce is still in an experimental period of high and hectic activity, but is of great importance for future growth and value creation. It is unfortunate if our small businesses are slowing down in using new technologies and offering forward-looking solutions. Business itself is responsible for choosing a strategy and adapting to the current business environment at all times. It is not possible to oblige companies to operate economically and in the future. Administrations, on their part, have the responsibility to optimise the framework conditions for business. This is a serious task, and it is important that small businesses also have the opportunity to participate when public access to more and more use of electronic tools. Much work has been done to adapt existing legislation to electronic development and international guidelines. The new procurement legislation is a good example. Norway has progressed ahead of international developments and has come a long way in opening up electronic communications and commerce. Furthermore, the work on IT security is of great importance. The application of technology shall be safe. As mentioned above, some of the reasons why companies have been deterred from using electronic commerce could be that the customer has been detained. As a market player, the public has a responsibility and, as a demanding customer, should stimulate small and large enterprises to use electronic commerce. Norway is well placed here, and the eProcurement initiative of the European Commission, under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour and Administration, was a good example. On the public electronic market place, which is in the process of being established, purchasers and suppliers shall, in the first instance, carry out transactions related to the reporting on established framework agreements, order follow-up, billing and payment. It is for this type of transaction that the value added and efficiency potential of electronic solutions are greatest. Depending on the needs and wishes of users, it may also become relevant in the long term to provide other services in electronic marketplaces, so that several stages of the procurement process can be covered. Among other things, we need to: assess whether the DOFFIN electronic publication database, where all purchases are announced, shall be linked to the market place itself. By increasing the number of public enterprises using the marketplace and the publication database, their suppliers will have an important customer-based incentive. Particular emphasis has been placed on the fact that the entry threshold for the use of the market place and for the search of the DOFFIN will be low. It is particularly important for the smaller enterprises to be able to participate. On the public market place, the minimum requirement is for a supplier to be able to participate in the Internet access of the enterprise. The same is true for searching the DOMFIN database. This means that 70 pst. of our small businesses already have an important prerequisite in place, and that the threshold for the last 30 pst. is at an absolute minimum level. The public market place shall also ensure that the public imposes uniform requirements on catalogues of goods and that trade processes are consistent. This is a particular advantage for the smallest enterprises, which otherwise may not have the resources to deal with many customers with different requirements. Regardless of whether the purchasers use electronic commerce or not, large volumes of purchases combined in a contract may result in the smallest enterprises falling short. In particular, through the establishment of framework agreements, purchasing volumes can be the largest. The Government has therefore decided that all major State tenders should be submitted to the Competition Authority for an opinion before the invitation to tender expires. On the other hand, framework agreements are a necessary tool for the efficient implementation of public acquisitions. Framework agreements designed to allow for sub-contracts in certain geographical areas or in certain product areas are also a means of promoting competition providing good opportunities for SME participation. Such sharing and the constructive use of framework agreements can be a challenge because it takes time for purchasers to engage in market conditions and incorporate a set of framework agreements with the selected suppliers. Electronic solutions will make this job easier, and the market place has a particular focus on distributing information on the framework agreements concluded. This will provide us with a tool to break up the contract portfolio and ensure that the best suppliers win, regardless of size and geographic location. In order to make enterprises across the country aware of the market place and to provide a basis for assessing whether they will use it, the ‘Programme for electronic commerce in public’, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Joint Forum for e-commerce, KS, HSH and NHO, will now organise a number of seminars on the whole country’s theme. For Norwegian enterprises, the use of new technologies represents an important contribution to increased competitiveness. On the part of the Government, we are committed to stimulating growth and value creation through electronic commerce. There is also a background to a number of legislative changes that have been implemented and proposed to facilitate e-commerce. For District Norway, electronic commerce also represents an opportunity to reduce distance costs, both for suppliers and customers. Therefore, improving the framework conditions for electronic commerce in Norway is a priority area of industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e706	I have to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that we have a Minister of Industry who understands the problem and gives such a thorough answer. It is clear that the government here is taking a number of steps in relation to tenders, laws, framework conditions and also seeing regional policy approaches to these challenges. It's reassuring that a lot of work has been done, but I think we also have a challenge by looking specifically at small businesses in relation to this. It is also a major political challenge to take a stand in a number of small businesses, which otherwise feel that everyday life can be tough enough – that forms and public requirements can be tough enough as they are – so that they also see the possibility in this market. This is a change of opinion that is a challenge for political Norway too. I thank you again for the answer, which was both thorough and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e717	The public, whether municipal, state or state, has often been and can increasingly be said to be a demanding customer, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises. I remember this well from my time as rapporteur. Often they had this dilemma between local purchases and perhaps going further in order to obtain what appeared at least in the first place to be more reasonable goods. When it comes to collecting tenders, we have laws that we necessarily have to stick to. It is becoming even more demanding for small and medium-sized enterprises when public authorities switch to using electronic communications in many of these purchases, and some small enterprises will feel, in a way, further excluded from the possibility of participating in this trade at all. It is clear that it is important for the Government, for the public, to organise an arena that makes the possibility for small businesses that will take this challenge at least present. It is quite clear that the companies themselves have to do certain things, but what is our job is to make the threshold as low as possible so that they can make use of it. On the legal side, much has been done, I guess, in recent years, and we still identify all the problem areas that need to be in order for this to go as smoothly as possible. But here there is a significant need for information for enterprises, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, as this is increasingly being used by the public. That's why there's a very good cooperation in place, which I think during the spring is going to materialize in some regional and local conferences to inform the business community about these things that are going on. Finally, we want to have a common pleasure in getting the most out of the tax dollars through the procurement procedures of the public sector. On the other hand, we agree to facilitate that these small businesses will also be able to have supplies between businesses. It is clear that e-commerce is in its infancy. We're in a bad position in the North, approx. 12-13 pst. trade is apparently carried out over the network, but this must be assumed to increase over time. And it's our job to enable Norwegian business to meet those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e730	This is an important debate, and the Labour Party is pleased with the interpellation. Electronic purchases are growing, and we know that the public can save considerable money on this. The example of the interpellant from Ashim is a good example. When Lars Sponheim was Minister of Industry, important initiatives were taken in this area. This was closely followed up by the Stoltenberg government, and entered as a natural part of Grete Knudsen's eNorway plan. Unfortunately, today's government has not followed up as impressively as the previous two. But the right thing to do, the Minister of Industry's response today, as well as the presentation in May, can show that the current government is also addressing the challenges in this area. The government of Stoltenberg established a programme that has now been in operation for a year — a national e-commerce programme to stimulate the use of e-commerce and business in small and medium-sized enterprises. SND also contributed. Incentives to electronic business in general may be the most important thing for small and medium-sized enterprises. In this way, they will also be much easier to follow in relation to public tenders. Because that's what the interpellant says, that they have a hard time getting along. But there are also positive things happening. Nord-Trøndelag and Nordland County Councils have merged on a project, because they saw that there was a lack of knowledge about the public sector and the like in the public sector, which was one of the reasons why the public procurement market did not function properly. They therefore created a three-year supplier development project. Meetings, meetings, advice, training and competence enhancement are the key priorities of the project, which started on 1 January 2001. The rules of the public procurement market in particular need to be disseminated. Both municipalities and enterprises are target groups, and the project will help to improve the competitiveness of more enterprises to fight for the benefit of demanding public customers. The project is a collaboration between the two counties as well as the NHO, KS and SND. This was a local success in the sense that two local suppliers in the Nord-Trøndelag have obtained contracts for nearly 90 million. kr broken down over a four-year period by the purchasing system of the county. The project has been so successful that last Friday the project received the award of the year’s logistics project 2001 by NIMA, Norwegian Association for Procurement and Logistics. The project has revealed a pattern that shows that the country concludes agreements which favour the large suppliers in their form, as the interpellant underlines, and it has shown, in particular, that there is a great lack of knowledge of the laws and regulations in force and of the opportunities for industry to compete in public meeting places. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the project is doing something concrete to raise information on the market and to make obstacles of a different nature visible. In addition, the Nordkalot Square is established. It is a meeting place for public acquisition interests. Thus, the project does something concrete to facilitate the electronic database of suppliers – and not least in a district perspective. Therefore, the two county councils received the price, which shows that it benefits from the public contribution to large and small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e747	The development of electronic commerce and business activities can bring considerable efficiency gains. Thoughts about the role the public can play in this process include: well illustrated in the ‘ electronic content strategy’, which came from the Ministry a few weeks ago. It illustrates, inter alia: the importance that the public can have in terms of increasing the use of electronic tools. I support the interpellant Trine Skei Grande in her view of the importance of the public becoming a demanding user of electronic services, and not least that they make their content available via the network. Increased use of ICT in the public sector will help raise demand for modern tools. In addition, it will help train the population and ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are likely to receive much more effective treatment in contact with the public sector than they are currently receiving. In addition, public demand for such services will contribute to the improvement of the infrastructure needed. I am therefore looking forward to Gabrielsen's IT policy statement on the Storting in May and the results of the work that is now being done on the further development of the eNorway plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e763	On 6 December 2000, the size covered the law on changes in the Government Acquisitions Act, which also covers the local government sector, and which makes public acquisitions independent of the value of the acquisition. Coordination of the unbridled and complex rules with which suppliers of goods, services, construction and installations have had to deal has been beneficial to small-scale enterprises. By putting this common legislation in place, a good part of the disadvantages that small businesses have suffered is being offset. In the past, it was enough that some municipal councillors acquired municipal protectionism or excavated excavators around their own municipal border by favoring their own craftsmen, entrepreneurs and suppliers, among others. to ensure local workplaces and ring-effects. Such special considerations have now expired, because we have now developed an effective system, where the offer is chosen which has the best offer, based on a number of predefined criteria. This means that some local businesses need to step up, because they face stronger competition. In addition, purchasing practices in many municipalities will be renewed and streamlined, including: in the case of electronic purchases. Some companies feel that they are depressed by sky-high taxes and taxes and have small margins to go on. They have difficulties in being involved in the technological development of the additional human and technological counts that this entails. There is reason to be concerned about the difficulties individual companies may have with the municipalities as customers. Nevertheless, the market place is an appropriate instrument for coordinated and reasonable procurement. The party of progress believes that this is the future and that businesses must keep up with it. That being said, in order for small enterprises to adapt, the electronic tendering process must be simple. Simplification, that's the key. In a transitional phase, contracting entities should also consider issuing written tenders. Furthermore, it may be appropriate to set up meetings, which provide information on the tendering procedures. This will be an advantage for municipalities themselves, which can thus get more operators on the track, with lower prices of acquisitions as a likely result. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is working on an action plan for public acquisitions focusing on small businesses. This mandate should also contain elements on how Norwegian enterprises can adapt more easily to the electronic everyday life of public acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e784	The question that Trine Skei Grande raises is important. It is also important for districts to be able to participate in this competition, but this requires infrastructure to be in place. When Grete Knudsen was the Council of State, quite ambitious plans were made for the development of an infrastructure that would lead to equal opportunities throughout the country. The so-called broadband plan was ambitious, and as far as I can see today, it is not fulfilled in any way. It is proud that the market will solve some of the problems — or the challenges, which it may be more appropriate to say — but it turns out that there is far too little. If this is going to be an industry that is going to be the same for the whole country, you have to look at the possibilities of expanding broadband and possibly other similar offers in a way where the state becomes much more active. I believe that the market does not think it appropriate to go out to the very smallest municipalities where population density is low, and that is why the state here has to take a special responsibility. I could therefore imagine that the Minister of Industry would say a little about it if he got the floor again, if you have ambitions to make a greater effort in this area, so that all the actors have equal opportunities to have a good offer of infrastructure on these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e793	Electronic procurement is an important, positive innovation and represents challenges for public and supply businesses as well as for the private sector, which are not addressed in this interpellation. This leads to more competition and more flexibility, and cheaper goods and services to be delivered. It's in sum very positive. The interpellant sees that there is also a problem area that appears, as one gets new trading venues. The public must ensure that most possible types of enterprise have access to the marketplace and can take an active part in the supply from the public, first to secure competition and second to ensure that some groups of enterprises, such as small enterprises, are not excluded from participation. An accessibility feature should be provided for mail. The simple one is a keyword. One should also develop certain standards. There are also positive sides to this image. Small enterprises can actually have a broader customer base as the location of an enterprise is not so dependent on having to be in the community. Enterprises that do not reach their traditional local markets can reach other markets. Another advantage is that the district may also be an important venue for this new trading method. These companies do not need to be in central strata, as they have done so far. That's why districts get a new advantage, which is important to exploit. Otherwise, many of the challenges facing the individual enterprise and labour market organisations lie when it comes to qualifying for this new purchasing practice jointly. There is a lot to do with hold. But e-commerce has come to be and to be an offer in the future. Therefore, the individual enterprise makes it right to adapt to this situation the sooner, the better. Competence building is also the public's responsibility, and the public must have its attention focused on special needs that can emerge in this particular problem area, as the interpellant pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e806	There are three things I would like to point out, and that I think will be crucial if the smallest companies too are to be able to participate in e-commerce. One is what the Minister of Industry had in his reply to the interpellant, namely the design of the works of agreement and the design of framework agreements. It is quite right, as the Minister of Industry said, that this must be done in a way that also gives the least opportunity to participate in the tendering process, and that the requirements are not designed to make only the large suppliers available. The second is the need for knowledge in business, and then I'm still talking especially about the smallest businesses. The Minister of Industry said in his reply that there was a low threshold for using e-commerce. I just partially share this perception. It is particularly bad that the Government and the majority of the population have cut the SND support, which goes to important skills-raising measures, and which are an essential part of the funding for small enterprises, which often have difficulties in coping with the level of competence to be achieved on their own. Many of the rural holdings also have to incur significant travel costs in order to be able to take part in the level of competence to which they are entitled and do not have the means to bear the costs. There, SND has been a very important part. But the most important thing is the third point, which goes on infrastructure and the very concrete need for broadband to be developed across the country. It is going to be crucial for businesses across the country to be able to participate in this type of trade in the future. This will be crucial for the location of future enterprises. It's a frightening passivity from the government's side to taking hold of this. It should be a national responsibility. But instead, we feel that the government is shifting responsibility to the municipalities. It's not durable, and I think we'll see that this won't lead. Nor is it the case that we are expanding broadband for municipalities, as you can get the impression after the Minister of Transport's comment in the Evening Post last week, where she says: “We cannot spend a lot of money until we know more about what municipalities are going to use the broadband for.” It's not the municipalities, it's the business community that needs this. We must not allow things to go as I read in an 1896 situation here in Stortinget when the "Railway Committee" dealt with "extraordinary appropriations for the expansion of the Reichstelegraph and the Reichstelefon", where the "Landet nordenfor Namsos" said that most would understand "that in the circumstances referred to above, a plant up north of Norway would be extremely expensive, while it is doubtful whether its useful position would be reasonable in relation to the costs". It was said about the expansion of the national telephone at that time. At least you had honest politicians who called a spade a spade and said you didn't want to expand the phone in District Norway. Now you believe in the market. But it turns out that the market doesn't stretch.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e827	I think I'm going to go back to the time after the summation also came north, as opposed to the previous speeches, because this is an important interpellation. It is important in this way that there are questions about opening up opportunities for a simpler Norway. What the Ministry of Economic Affairs is currently doing is opening up small and medium-sized enterprises to be at all levels actors in terms of the very largest customer, which the public sector is. We can't have too simple angles of incidence to a question like this. On the one hand, we know that a more efficient procurement for the public sector will add some billion more, both to school, to transport and to the health sector. On the other hand, we know that those who are responsible for acting locally must certainly do what they encourage private individuals to do, namely to use the near-buyer. He was then kept for a much longer time than if you bought goods and services where the items seemed to be the best and cheapest. It is also about the extent to which those responsible locally are allowed to qualify small and medium-sized enterprises. We've seen that here in this room, for example. during the examination of the Public Procurement Act, has tried to bring down small and medium-sized companies clauses that are virtually impossible for a small company to take over. Contractor clause, apprenticeship clause, etc. had to die and live into the Public Procurement Act. There was an attempt. We have seen that there have been so many complex practices to allow goods to be sold to the public sector that they have already taken care of those who are closest, and perhaps the best ones to provide service in their community. For this reason, the follow-up of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to ‘Simplify Norway’ is very important in this context. For example, we cannot have a KS that wants to contest, which wants to side with the intention of the Public Procurement Act, because we know that through the EEA Agreement we have traffic rules in this area that say something about both the purchase thresholds and the degree to which the freedom of action is and should be. That's why this interpellation is important. It is therefore important to achieve what is the intention of the interpellation and the response of the Council of State, namely that not only those who are to sell goods and services to the municipality should be qualified, but that, on the other hand, a local responsibility be also taken to qualify those who are to sell goods and services to the largest of all customers, namely the entire public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e836	Today, for the first time in my life, I have delivered two interpellations to the Stortinget. Both were delivered on the basis of a sincere concern, and both have been right uplifting – including this round. There was a slight depression during Mr. Enoxene's posts, but I think that's probably the most proof that when politicians think they're going to oversee the challenges of technology, they're usually wrong. The day we've expanded broadband to all municipalities, technology may have left us behind, and there will be other great opportunities for the mountain farmer in Rørvik to communicate with the outside world. I also see that education policymakers are looking forward to the future, given what we see today in the field of vocational education, namely that the search for the topic of media and communication is explosive. I hope that doesn't give us more website companies, but that it actually gives out competence to the companies in that particular field. Because I think there are two things that constitute the main challenge here: competence and attitudes. Then, of course, the framework conditions are crucial, even though I am unsure whether broadband is one and only essential if you are able to deliver a tender or one. However, simplification is very important; the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ is very important. We must have small business owners who want to – and who can – deliver a tender, but we must also have small business owners who have energy to be in that particular area. Therefore, the simplification work of the Government is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e845	There have been some issues related to what goes on infrastructure – Ryan and Enoxen were particularly involved in broadband. I want to come back to some of the things in the context of the IT policy statement, since the Presidency has looked gracefully at the Council of State and allowed him to keep one of these. I fully agree that there is an important part of the whole – I was saying – the ‘IT-certification’ of Norway that we have an infrastructure that is sufficient, but I do not think it is a decisive premise that a candidate should be able to submit a tender. Even if you had other connections than broadband, you could get these things out. But there's something we're going to get back to. I think it's very important that we have it in mind that small businesses should have access to e-commerce in order to sell goods to the public, but not least the framework agreement we create, perhaps an even more important factor for smaller businesses, which are often located in the districts, to be involved in this. It is then clear that knowledge and attitudes are very important for companies to put this into practice. I would say that if you have the least knowledge of the use of ICT, you can actually do this if you want. But we see that a lot of people pick it off, and it also has to do with the fact that the trade in that area is very limited. As for the quote that Enoch made, I understand that he – I don't want to say on his older days, it would be good to take care of – has started digging in the archives here. He has found the most relevant in a big shot, or a debate, from 1896. He said, as far as I remember, that at that time it was 'at least honest politicians'. – I want to draw the attention of today’s politicians to the fact that it was before the Central Party had arrived in these halls.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e858	Well, well... The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e866	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e887	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate and propose the sale of selected parts of State Forest SF’s productive forest properties in line with the intentions set out in the proposal by 1 January 2004 at the latest.’ Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e971	During the debate, the representative Arne Sortevik put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposals are as follows: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to draw up a scheme for the conversion of vocational education in secondary school, where, from the first year onwards, the student combines vocational training in enterprises with general vocational training, based on the fact that a large part of the training is left to industry and based on the fact that the scope of theoretical education is limited and more clearly linked to the profession itself. The scheme must also cover vocational training of a duration shorter than 3 years. The majority asks the Government to immediately open up to the practice of a scheme as described by exceptions and trials in relation to Reform 94 for those who wish to do so.2. The government asks the government to propose a modified funding model for the operation of secondary schools so that the money follows the student according to the price principle. Public and private education services are treated in the same way in respect of operating grants. The funding model must cover through a unit price a scheme of apprentice grants to the enterprise providing vocational training and apprentice remuneration to the student completing vocational training.3. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible, which from the second half of 2002 bring back to the Ministry of Education and Research the general apprenticeship allowance entered into the framework grant for county municipalities and, if necessary, to strengthen this item so that the amount of DKK 80000 per head. apprentice per day year – with the addition of an adjustment to the price increase from the previous regulation – is reintroduced. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e1009	During the debate, Mr Evje presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative of Mr Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount requested by the Government shall ensure that the administrative fee is converted into a NOK fee instead of an interest rate share and that the fee is presented as a separate fee item on the payment form.’;» Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e1048	During the debate Ursula Evje put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring its own case before the Stortinget for the establishment of a political and ministerial independent representative for primary and secondary education responsible for ensuring the legal certainty of each student in relation to the quality of training and training.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29-2.ana.ud1591e1070	In Case No: No voting theme is available for 8, 9 and 10.
