ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e75	An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Ursula Evje from 13 June onwards. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted2. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e93	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat. The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e101	On behalf of Rune J. Skjellaaen, Eli Sollied Överaas and myself, I propose to establish a national trial of cooperation between school and sports on the offer to all primary school students of daily physical activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e106	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e120	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3110 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e136	Over the last few years, the safety and cooperation organisation in Europe has played a more important and important role, particularly in the major transformations in new democracies in the east. The organisation was particularly marked by two main issues in 2001: firstly, the strengthening of the OSCE through reform and, secondly, the role of the OSCE in the fight against terrorism. The discussions on an OSCE reform have been on the agenda for a longer time, and the work in 2001 was marked by some uncertainty about the future and role of the organisation. We have recorded that one in 2000 could see an increasing political conflict between Russia on the one hand and a number of Western countries on the other. This tension continued in 2001. There is one of the same thing we have seen in the Council of Europe, how there has been a strong increase in tension between Russia and the other countries, especially as a result of the conflict in Chechnya. But it was positive that the OSCE support group could return to Chechnya after two years of absence, although this does not alter the general picture of increasing Russian dissatisfaction with the development of the OSCE. Due to resistance, particularly from the Russian side, a non-agreement was reached on a budget for the OSCE for 2002, and it is clear that Russians clearly give priority to discussions with the EU and NATO over the OSCE. There were no clear signals from the new U.S. administration about the role it wanted to give to the OSCE, and this helped to reinforce the impression of doubt about the organization's future. Terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001 probably changed much of the world picture and the political agenda in very many countries and thus also some of the uncertainty about the future of the OSCE. We saw that the rapprochement between Russia and the United States was reflected in a more conciliatory tone also in the OSCE. We must be able to say that despite some weaknesses, the OSCE is still an important organisation in the process of establishing stability in the organisation's geographical area of activity and field of activity. In the previous two years, a highlight of the organisation’s role was represented until now, with a strong increase in activity in the Balkans, in the Caucasus and in Central Asia. The OSCE has carried out a number of important and partly new tasks in 2001. A new missionary team was established in Yugoslavia, and through a rapid reaction, the organisation managed to prevent ethnic tensions in South Serbia and Macedonia from developing into new war situations. An overall committee has pointed out that this shows how important the OSCE can be as an instrument to quickly resolve conflicts that arise. We know that it is significantly cheaper to seek to resolve conflicts in advance than afterwards to have to prevent clashes between the parties in the conflict. One cannot ignore several such operations in the coming years, and the OSCE may be given new such missions if one comes up with solutions to the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, Moldova or Georgia. In this way, the OSCE helps to stabilise former conflict areas and to prevent new conflicts. It is therefore very important that Norway carry on its active work as a prominent participant in the OSCE. Norway plays a significant role and uses much more resources than many other OSCE member countries. It is positive that, within the human dimension, the OSCE and the Council of Europe work together to make the best use of their resources in the field. I myself have participated many times as an election observer, and have seen that cooperation between the OSCE and the Council of Europe is working very well. I believe that such cooperation should be intensified, inter alia. to save administrative resources and also to promote the common policy objectives of the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e155	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3110 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e171	The 2001 NATO message bears witness to two things: firstly, that there are work tasks enough for this security organisation, ten years after the end of the cold war. Secondly, NATO needs to continuously adapt to meet new, more complex threats by means of more and more complex instruments. We can certainly put the thesis that security is ensured by military means alone, behind us, but the message makes it easy to see that without military means too, many security challenges would have been far more difficult, not to say impossible to solve. As so many times before, history in 2001 took an entirely unexpected turn: the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington DC triggered, for the first time in NATO's history, an Article 5 decision. The demands were made on us as an alliance member who we have expected every year that others would meet for us in the event that we were exposed to a serious threat to our security. The setting shows that there is a broad consensus on the Norwegian follow-up to the NATO Decision. The Norwegian military contributions, both to Operation Enduring Freedom and to the International Security Force around Kabul, ISAF, have been of great importance for the operations in Afghanistan. We have gained international recognition for the quality of our contributions. It is important that we, as a small country, have set ourselves up to contribute to the fight against the Al-Qaeda network. Our solidarity strengthens our own security in the longer term. The fact that we participate militarily, I would claim to give us greater influence on other aspects of the work in which the international community is involved in Afghanistan. Although the 11th of September is the event that has left deep marks on the NATO alliance in 2001, we must not forget the important work NATO is doing in the Balkans – in Bosnia-Herzegovina, in Kosovo and in Macedonia. The reduction in peacekeeping forces in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo has been planned. Nevertheless, the presence of NATO remains significant. I also think there is reason to stress that under Norwegian leadership the KFOR force was better welded together into a real multinational force, making it more cost-effective and more flexible. The experience we have gained will be useful, not only for our own defences, but also for NATO's and the EU's future work on crisis management operations. Successful cooperation between the EU, NATO and the OSCE in Macedonia in 2001 was a promising expression of how the international community can contribute to preventing armed conflict. NATO demonstrated that the organisation is able to deploy military forces quickly to support a political solution. We are facing a new round of enlargement in NATO. More often, we hear the names of seven, or at least five, countries that are likely to be invited to join NATO at the NATO Summit in Prague in November. The second round of enlargement seems to trigger less debate than the first. It's related to the fact that the relationship between NATO and Russia is far better than it was at the previous crossroads. The new NATO-Russia Council is potentially giving Russia a strong influence on European security policy, which has led to at least the voiced Russian concern for enlargement being waned. However, there are many new challenges for NATO in the wake of enlargement. With 24, or maybe 26, member countries need to review some functions and decision-making structures. Enlargement will also be able to shift the focus from the candidate countries to those countries that will border the NATO region and to Central Asia to a greater extent. Just as the Kosovo action triggered a new strategic concept and the so-called Defence Capabilities Initiative, DCI, on 11 September, triggered the need for a debate on what role NATO wants to play in the global action against terrorism. This debate is already in full swing. There is no need to hide that there are different views about NATO's role in the future. I also think you can say that the threat perception on the two sides of the Atlantic is currently different. It also results in Americans and Europeans in some cases having different approaches to meeting the threats. For natural reasons, the United States perceives the threat of international terrorism more strongly than what Europeans do. They seriously believe that the attack on 11 September last year could well have been a nuclear attack. They received this week’s new notice that al-Qaida members living in the United States are alleged to have planned terrorist attacks involving the use of nuclear material. They feel they don't have much time to lose in work to prevent a new, cruel terrorist attack on civilians. In addition, they possess instruments and instruments other than us, such as an enormous intelligence device and not least a very advanced high-tech defence. We hear the American voices, among politicians and academics, who believe that the United States must strike as quickly as possible and, if necessary, act unilaterally against potential enemies, whether states or terrorist groups. But we have to relate to what we actually see, not just what we hear. We see a United States trading with 16 NATO countries in Afghanistan. We hear influential American voices, like that of Senator Richard Lugar. During a visit to Oslo last week, he called for more, not less, transatlantic cooperation. Senator Richard Lugar and his former colleague Sam Nunn invited Norway and other European countries to participate in a joint campaign to prevent the spread, controlled or uncontrolled of weapons of mass destruction. Russia is the country in the world with the most of these types of weapons and materials that can be used to create weapons of mass destruction, and also ‘dirty bombs’ that involve the use of nuclear material. Our Norwegian nuclear safety work in North-West Russia has been and is an important contribution also to preventing nuclear material from becoming volatile, as well as the important environmental impacts that work has had. Norway can use its experience from our cooperation with the Russians to lift this work in NATO. The new NATO-Russia Council is a good platform for strengthening work on non-proliferation. The debate on the future of NATO is likely to increase in time towards the Prague Summit. The question is whether NATO will in the future limit itself to dealing with security in a relatively stable Europe, or whether NATO will be reorganised to become more effective in the fight against international terrorism. It's not just up to the Americans. On the contrary, Norway and the other European countries must in the future formulate an opinion on the need to make NATO more relevant in military terms. Unfortunately, the follow-up to the Defence Capabilities Initiative is slower than foreseen, although Norway is not among the least favoured. It's very important that DCI is followed up. If we allow the gap between the US and the European resource situation to only increase, the probability of the United States choosing its own military race will also increase, and the possibility of putting a more European mark on the fight against international terrorism is also weakened. Let me finally comment briefly on the minority. SVs, annotations for the message. SV probably mixes the cards slightly when they withdraw the bilateral ABM agreement, which otherwise ceases to exist today, in their comments. Moreover, it is clear that SV does not want NATO well, but that the party prefers NATO to be replaced by other organisations. I guess that's strictly nothing new. New is it, and maybe a little confusing, that SV is worried that NATO is too little involved in the military action in Afghanistan. But this somewhat contradictory perception I assume that SV itself is going to elaborate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e211	NATO is the bearer of our defense, and it is in our interest that NATO is best equipped to meet today's and tomorrow's threat picture. The Progress Party believes it is important to ensure that Norway’s relationship with NATO is the best. And as NATO continues to develop new forms of work and co-operation, such as: the new Joint Council with Russia, it is extremely important that we give priority to promoting our national interests in this context. Enlargement is basically very positive, and enables NATO to contribute to providing security to more and more people, but we want to point out that it is important that enlargement has a focus not only on political but also on the military. There may be a danger that, after expanding, for perfectly legitimate reasons, enlargement must not weaken NATO militarily. Before we give our final commitment to how many countries are going to join in the planned extension of NATO, we will have to look at what are the military councils. For NATO must continue to have the credibility and strength it has — and has — it is important that the whole alliance contributes to this. We don't think anyone, at least new member countries, is worthy of any kind of a and b members. The establishment of a European security and defence policy dimension, the ESDP, is a new challenge. The European Union's desire for its own military strength is so exciting. However, what makes the ESDP, in our opinion, more of an airlock than any real actor, is the fact that the EU itself does not have any personnel or equipment. It is therefore largely NATO that has to give up such resources. It is therefore clear that questions should be asked whether or not the EU countries should concentrate on NATO instead of creating something that could quickly appear to be a parallel organisation that duplicates the work of NATO. And then some comments to SV's comments. I noticed that SV is critical and negative that Article 5 was implemented. But then SV says it is negative that the decision to use Article 5 was taken ‘very quickly’. It is well in the work of the entire NATO alliance, and it should be a strength that once a situation arises that requires the implementation of Article 5, the decision must be taken quickly, in so far as it is very rapid. Time for the major deliberations and parliamentary debates is probably not possible in such a situation. At the same time, SV is also critical of what is referred to as ‘out of area’ strategy and that it operates outside perhaps NATO’s core area. But it's also a recognition of the new threat picture that has arisen, and that you have to face the threats to NATO's inhabitants where the threats arise, and where the threats are, which means that NATO's role, and where NATO operates, naturally changes in relation to what we've been accustomed to and thought of as NATO's original territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e224	Today, Thursday, June 13, the US is expected to cancel the ABM agreement, a very clear cornerstone since 1972 in the cooperation between Russia and the United States to bring down the number of nuclear weapons. 31 members of the U.S. Congress have filed a lawsuit against President Bush because they think he's not allowed to do this without asking Congress first. This shows a little bit of the seriousness of the new trend we see at the Bush administration. One wants more – and not just a little bit more – aggressive defence and security policies, which can actually go beyond security, as we see signs in time that one wants to seek out conflicts and solve them before they break out into open war. Lord Carrington, former Secretary General of NATO, clearly says that NATO is a defensive organization. NATO is not looking up problems, NATO is a defensive organization. We see that our largest alliance partner in NATO is clearly of a different opinion. So to decide that there was an Article 5 situation after September 11, which was drawn very quickly, without the Member States being able to participate in any overall assessment of this. It's also interesting to note that it was NATO's headquarters that took the initiative towards the United States to assess whether there was such a situation, and that a deal between the United States and NATO about this did not lead to NATO taking command of the actions that were initiated. Of course, from the SV side, we want the UN to play the role internationally. Then one might wonder – as the representative Høglund does – why do we think that NATO, which we are actually against, would at least be the second best. We know from Kosovo that, in some cases, NATO was actually overlooked. We know that one in NATO at least investigates the bombing, that one is more critical in its procedure. A closer look at the bomb gauge, etc. Experience has shown that NATO is actually more critical of an offensive military strategy than the United States has been. It's in the context that we've drawn out positive aspects of NATO. We were against this being assessed as an Article 5 situation. Under international law, two basic conditions must be met in order for such an attack to be entitled to an armed self-defense action: the attack must come from a state, and the reaction must not be unnecessary, which it would be if the attack had already ended. If we now say that al-Qaeda controlled the Taliban, and that the acts of terrorism were carried out by – or were commissioned from – al-Qaeda, then the first condition is good. The second condition, the ‘criteria of necessity’, is, in my view, related to the fact that represals are initially regarded as unlawful. An acceptance of the US's right to counterattack also does not mean that one has to accept the extent of the war that is actually being waged and that we still call an Article 5 situation. We know that in the new NATO there are clearly so-called non-Article 5 crisis management operations in place, so that one actually has the potential to use Article 5 even in the new NATO, but still have the capacity to operate crisis management. That's what the United States is now trying to reinforce. The United States stressed building an alliance against terror that took a far wider starting point than the NATO countries had. And it would be natural if this had led to an extensive discussion of NATO's position and NATO's role. The government is taking St.meld. No 24 do not raise the basic questions that it is natural to ask after the operation in Afghanistan, where NATO was largely asked on the sidebar. SV believes it is necessary to have a comprehensive debate on the role of NATO ten years after the Cold War, at a time when, more than once, a global starting point is needed to ensure peace and stability. The NATO Member States must choose a holistic approach to countering terrorism, and the threat of terrorism must not lead to any comprehensive military upgrading, which we see clear signs of. In the implementation proposal, the Government clarifies that there is much greater scope to benefit from the full spectrum of security policy instruments than before. One frameworks political, legal, police and diplomatic instruments and shows that there are many other possibilities before an attack is necessary. The use of military power constitutes only one of these means, one that in most situations will hardly be the dominant security policy instrument. I would also like to warn against developments in which countries in Europe compete with the United States when it comes to using defence funds. It's already a serious crutch of thought that it's being used enormously with means for a military defense, while for comparison it's being used little for active prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e251	I'm not quite sure where to start here. But it's okay that SV was against defining the action in Afghanistan as an Article 5 operation based on one knew at the time. SV was also against the entire military action in Afghanistan. What's going to be difficult is when one hears the foundation of the resistance that's coming in retrospect, because in retrospect it would be more obvious that it was right to define this as an Article 5 situation, and that it was right to go to military action because this was not an isolated terrorist action. It was a much more extensive terrorist network, which was not only a threat to the United States as an ally, but a threat to many countries. This is something we see every day. Therefore, I believe that it should now have been more natural to say that this was a correct assessment, and not to say the opposite. It is not easy to understand how a person can come to the conclusion that SV has come to. And once again, I want to ask SV if what has not happened to military action has proved to be a necessary contribution as well as all the other things being done on the civil side. When I say that military action is necessary, I do not say the same thing as military action is easy, nor is it sufficient, but attempts are also made to do something in other areas. Another point I would like to make here is the question of the approaching extension of NATO. Now it is SV against Norwegian membership in NATO, but I assume that this is based on a recognition that it is not relevant to report Norway out of NATO. One will then try to have an impact on the Norwegian policy within NATO. Then it becomes very unclear to me if SV now says that SV is either against an extension of NATO, and that there is a signal to the Government not to go in for an extension, because it leads to problems with Russia, etc., as it is listed in the notes. Or is it that SV now opens up for NATO to expand, and that one will come back to the countries in the next round?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e263	SV has previously expressed the joy that the Taliban regime has fallen. That case was faster than we had believed, but as I said, we expressed joy over it. What we are now seeing is that it has gone over to be the long war, which we are currently no longer looking at. So saying that this is a success, that all the success criteria are met, is way too early. I think that now we might also start to see another main reason why the war in the whole thing was going on, namely the struggle for the huge gas and oil resources in Central Asia. This is geopolitics. This is about getting resources. I want to go so far as to say that here, in fact, a defence also uses its security policy to safeguard interests of an economic nature. Then the representative asked Blankenborg about this with an extension of NATO. The problem is, like when it comes to an extension of NATO, it doesn't get any better. One still has access to the first use of nuclear weapons, one still has the ‘out of area’ strategy. NATO itself does not get any better if it increases the number of member countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e272	SV obviously feels somewhat lost in relation to ‘new’ NATO. The rest of us may feel the same way about "new" SV. Because when you read the long special statement from SV in the setting, it's certainly not easy to get any idea what SV really means about NATO. On the one hand, one does not want the ‘out of area’ strategy. On the other hand, it is regrettable that the Americans did not use the ‘out of area’ strategy and allowed NATO to play an active role instead of making a comprehensive international coalition. It's not quite easy to understand the logic of it. But even more difficult it is to understand the logic when SV says that one ‘knows that NATO enlargement can bring benefits to those countries that are now seeking admission’, and not say a divisive word about what benefits. For the rest of the note describes only the disadvantages of NATO, which points to the fact that SV is still of the opinion that the world would have been better if NATO did not exist, and Norway would have been better if Norway had not been a member of the NATO that does not exist. Is SV really serious about this? And does that mean that you've definitely signed up for reality? What are the benefits of NATO membership for the candidate countries? I should have liked that specified. And does SV think that these benefits are real to these countries? Then there's another point in the comment that I have difficulty understanding. There is a warning against military upgrading and a kind of competition between European countries in NATO and the United States. At the same time, there is even more warning against the United States alone. How do you think, then, that the European NATO countries should be fairly equal with the United States if you do not imagine that the Europeans should step up?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e283	The first question I have to answer is that we have said that the UN should be in the leadership of international operations. We want both the United States, NATO and others to be able to support and support this. That must be the long-term goal. So for this, membership can be beneficial for the individual member countries. Of course, it can, in the form of getting into the heat. This is a former Eastern bloc country, and we now see that NATO may be more and more involved in the role of being an organisation. Maybe that's exactly why we see that the U.S. doesn't look lighted up with NATO anymore. Maybe that's why they're notifying you a harder line. One shall be searched for and conflicted. So to this -- now I'm not going to come up with the last question. That's what the representative on the payroll gets, or we'll have to do it in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e292	The question forgotten by the representative Jacobsen was as follows: What benefits can the new candidate countries achieve? SV describes in its note that there are benefits for these candidate countries, and it would have been very useful to hear what the advantages of SV are in mind. The SV representative used most of his post here to talk about Afghanistan. The representative Jacobsen said that he had many times expressed joy at the fall of the Taliban regime. And he said, it actually fell faster than we thought. But what I said earlier time and time again was that the Taliban is being strengthened for every single day it is being bombed. I think it is time for SV to answer very clearly if you now see that SV was wrong when you repeatedly went against military operations, went against bombing. SV said in all debates that it was against the action in Afghanistan. Proposals were made – at least in two debates – on stop at the bombing. In the last debate we had, there was no suggestion from SV about stopping the bombing. My question is whether it means that SV realized that it had been wrong. In any case, SV has to be able to tell if you now see that it was wrong. I would like to remind the representative Jacobsen that SV was in favour of bombing Serbia and Kosovo in the context of the Kosovo crisis. Why was the SV for the bombing in Serbia and Kosovo, but against the bombing in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e302	I can confirm to the representative Rise that at first we were actually afraid that the Taliban would be strengthened. I'm afraid today that for every bomb that falls, the chance of increased terrorism will be increased, precisely because I don't think resolving the terrorist problem is in the bombing process. I think it's in an extended security operation. It's about getting rid of poverty, and it's about getting a fairer value. There is no bombing. We must at least be skeptical about believing that one can bomb himself to peace when one knows that there are also great economic interests behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e307	I suggest that at least we surrender with Afghanistan and Article 5 now. What Inge Wohnung took up was whether it was not an advantage that there was a more balanced relationship between the United States and Europe. Today, the United States is then the dominant military power, and we might need a balance. It might have been to draw Inge's pay word a little long, but at least that's my word. Perhaps it's also SV's word that there is a military advantage to a balance between the United States and Europe. Then comes the other conditions, where Europe can play a leading role politically, economically, etc. Bjørn Jacobsen has a complex relationship between NATO and bilateral events and national policies in each Member State. If Jacobsen has heard that the Americans, the British, or the French have intended to put their nuclear weapons under the joint NATO command, I think it would be useful if the Stortinget were informed. As far as I know, it's not a close thought to say that these nuclear weapons are NATO weapons. They're very national -- terrible national they're armed -- so I think it's a good idea to keep them away in this context. When it comes to the extension, which is a question that can come up almost before the Storting has had a new round in plenary about NATO, I'll come back to it. There must be one point that counts here, in addition to everything that has been mentioned about the military capacity and all that possible. What is important when it comes to the development of Europe is that there is no renationalisation of military apparatus in all countries. That is what has led to conflicts over the years, that one has had a very national defence policy, where the military apparatus has been used in the fight against neighbouring countries. Now we have a chance to include more in a common thought, a common military system. In this way, we can prevent renationalisation and therefore new conflicts in Europe. It should be a perspective that SV is interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e318	I accept everything the representative of Blankenborg said, but will add that it will also be quite possible to do during the OSCE. There's nothing in the way of that. And, as Blankenborg was in, it could be moving the former Eastern blocs into the heat. So to the pay question, to which Blankenborg referred – the transatlantic: we can risk getting into a real mess. We're used to the cold war giving us a lot of attention from the United States. We now see that there is a new agreement, NATO has pushed Russia more into it. Maybe the Russian areas are more interesting to us. Perhaps, as the Evening Post says, we need to focus more on the north. Norway itself must have an emerging coastguard. Norway must itself take care of the sea area which is as large as the whole of Western Europe, which is full of energy and which is the European dish in relation to fish. Maybe we need to focus more on that road. Maybe it's going so far that we don't have to have the divider line right there or there, but together with the Russians we get an organic and a resilient management of the resources in the north. It may be more interesting to discuss than whether a person comes into a skewed or unbalanced Europe/USA situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e325	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e328	Since the signing of the Pact in 1949, NATO has been Norway’s main security policy alliance. NATO today has 19 member countries, and more are seeking inclusion in the alliance. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly has been a place of exchange of ideas and views. It has been a forum for debate. This has ensured predictability and access for all parties, and it has provided better transparency to our common security challenges. The Western world needs such a forum for security policy consultations, because today’s challenges are diverse and the threat picture is extensive. Unfortunately, we are not living in a peaceful world, and Norway cannot cope with this threat alone. Building new partnerships for peace to meet this threat is absolutely necessary, and NATO is a unique resource in the fight against terrorism due to its network of cooperating countries. That is why the new partnership with Russia is so important. Norway, as a neighbour and friend of Russia, looks forward to this cooperation. It was historic when the agreement was signed in Rome. President Putin's willingness to reform and a more western foreign policy has laid the basis for this new strategic cooperation with NATO and Russia. The NATO-Russia Council will be a new body to discuss joint decisions, joint actions and to extend cooperation. The Council will focus on five main areas: international terrorism, crisis management, weapons of mass destruction, arms control and joint military cooperation. When the United States and Russia signed this agreement, both parties agreed to reduce their nuclear arsenal by almost two thirds. If this cooperation is successful, it can only be measured in concrete results. But the Christian People's Party believes that such cooperation is useful. On 11 September, international terrorism showed that it represents a serious threat to our modern vulnerable society, and that terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction are threats that must be taken seriously. On 12 September NATO adopted for the first time an Article 5 Decision, which states that an attack on an ally is an attack on everyone. The new threats challenge established capacities, structures and not least established thinking. Norway, too, has to deal with this threat in the coming period. Political developments in Europe challenge Norway's position and the close cooperation between Europe and the United States in security policy needs to be renewed and confirmed. In Europe, multilateral cooperation is becoming increasingly extensive, while bilateral and informal contacts are becoming more important. The EU is developing its own security and defence policy dimension between its Member States, without full Norwegian participation. Traditional major acts in Western Europe play a more prominent role than for a long time, and NATO processes are more marked by informal conversations. For Norway, it is therefore important to actively exploit the established opportunities we have to influence the EU, in particular in its security and defence cooperation. Our bilateral contacts need to be strengthened, especially with central allies. We also need to get used to making more important decisions on the basis of informal contacts. This makes great demands on us politicians and all those who represent Norway internationally. It may seem that the United States and Europe do not have completely consistent assessments of the international threat picture. If the United States chooses to continue the fight against terrorism with new comprehensive military operations, the relationship with Europe will be continually put to the test in due course. Close dialogue will therefore be absolutely necessary. Norway should work actively to strengthen the transatlantic links. The United States is militaryly superior, and it is still vital for us to secure American support for Norwegian security. However, I would like to stress that although the United States is militaryly superior, the United States and Europe are mutually dependent. President Bush has made this clear in his talk of NATO as a central part of the US security policy. It will be in the interest of the United States to maintain support from Europe. NATO must have the capacity to contribute to the military challenges facing Europe and the United States. NATO needs to recapability if the organisation is to remain the foremost security organisation and anchored for Europe’s stability. For Norway, it is important to ensure effective international use of resources and avoid duplication. The 11th of September showed that we are facing a number of threats today, and one can hardly meet them with military instruments alone. Here I fully agree with what Mr Jacobsen said earlier. Military power has been necessary to destroy the main base of the al-Qaida network in Afghanistan. Thus, military power is necessary, but only as one of several instruments in the further fight against international terrorism. In this situation, Norway must be active, modern and willing to change. We have to adapt, while deliberately trying to influence our environment. We are now reversing Defence because of the new international challenges. Rapid and extensive changes in the laws of many countries have also been very important in the fight against international terrorism. Such changes include: open to new possibilities to freeze the financing of terrorist networks. When NATO is perceived as a heavy-minded organisation, it is probably part of it, but the active and broad cooperation between the Member States that we have today should not be underestimated. Cooperation between the forces of the Alliance and the authorities contributes in a unique way to enabling the military forces of NATO countries to operate together in sharp operations. In order to optimise NATO, small nations must be willing to concentrate on selected niche capacities and leave to NATO to coordinate their work. For smaller countries, it is more important to be very good at something in one or a few areas than relatively bad at something in several areas. Norway may contribute with allied training and exercises, special forces and intelligence. The operations in Kosovo and Afghanistan have shown that Norwegian experience in winter climate and mountain landscape training is still important for the alliance. We have a great deal of expertise in intelligence and experience from international operations. A stronger NATO with forces that can operate together and that can quickly get in place is important for meeting all potential threats. The concern for the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and missile technology has intensified the focus. Biological weapons refocused after the gas attack in the Tokyo underground system a few years ago. On 11 September, terrorists showed the ability and will to kill large innocent crowds of people. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction must therefore be stopped. Our job internationally is to prevent biological and chemical weapons from falling into the hands of terrorists, and we must prevent nuclear weapons from being developed by regimes that can support terrorists. NATO has launched an ambitious initiative to develop real military capabilities that the alliance can use in situations that include biological and chemical weapons. The aim is to have the first groups ready for practice and training at the Prague Summit. Norway is in favour of this initiative. NATO shall be extended. The number of new countries is not clear, but it is very likely that there will be many. President Bush has said that the new NATO will extend from the Baltic to the Black Sea. This will involve a significant extension. The admission of new members will pose major challenges for NATO as an integrated military alliance. New members must be required not only to be admitted as members of NATO, but also in the period after they have been included in the alliance. The new members must contribute appropriate military resources. A strong NATO is important to be able to face the threats we face today. Norway is vulnerable, but together with our partners for peace, we are strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e364	Right now, there's a little further away from here a hearing where one discusses the Joint Strike Fighters, the new planes we might be buying. The aircraft are of course not only cut-off aircraft, defence aircraft, they should also be able to operate ground bombing. Just like now, the United States has financed the reconstruction of four of our F-16 planes, so they should be prepared to use class bombs as well. Doesn't it bother the Christian People's Party that we're actually involved in a strategy that involves attack? Doesn't it bother the Christian People's Party that there might be 3,000–4,000 civilians who have already joined Afghanistan, completely innocent people too? We're in and out of an attack strategy that is now being driven by our main ally, the United States. Doesn't it bother the Christian People's Party at all how one now proposes perhaps to invest $40 billion in new aircraft that doesn't have as its main objective to defend Norway, but to be able to be involved in so-called preventive attacks?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e371	Of course, it plagues every single human life that is lost in military operations. But what SV just pushes away is that you're facing a situation where you have to choose the smallest of two bottoms. The choices that SV here has made as a spokesman for in this hall, would probably have involved the loss of much more civil life than we have seen. I find it a little strange that the representative Jacobsen can stand here now and rejoice that the Taliban regime has fallen, while he is absolutely opposed to the methods used to remove the Taliban regime. It is completely incomprehensible to me that it is possible to operate on so many fields and with so many types of reasoning at the same time. With regard to investment in new aircraft, I can't actually see that there's any ethical problem. It is clear that we must be well equipped to participate in actions, not to attack, but to participate in defence and in a possible continuing war on terror, a threat that is now a threat to perhaps most countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e380	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e383	Just a few edge remarks from my side. One is to note that in the Storting there is a broad consensus about the line we lead in NATO cooperation. I'm not taking SV in this context, but it doesn't affect the fact that there's a broad majority standing behind the line we're following. There are three relationships I want to record. One concerns 2002 where important things are happening in the extension of the notification, namely 2001. In fact, this year two very important steps are being taken in the future. One is that NATO is expanding very significantly, and it is right that the case-rapporteur said that there is less debate about it this time than last time. This may be due to the fact that enlargement with the three central European countries has gone very well and proved to be a grant to NATO. The fact that we're now getting a wide extension round, I think it's a pleasure. I think that there is a good idea behind it all, and I fully agree with Haakon Blankenborg that avoiding the renationalisation of European defence is a very important objective. Enlargement will hardly provide any significant increase in military capacity. We know that the total increase in NATO budgets is going to be very modest, but it is still a subsidy, and there are important policies in it. How wide enlargement will be, we do not know now, because there are important things candidate countries still have to do before the final decision can be taken. But I have noticed the very positive foundation that lies in the setting, and that is the one that also underlies the Government's position on this issue. I noticed that Bjørn Jacobsen thought that the OSCE could be an alternative for the candidate countries. I would like to remind you that these countries are already part of the OSCE, but they do not feel that it is sufficient for their purpose. I think we should be careful to put our judgment on what the candidate countries themselves think about this point. The second thing that happens this year is the creation of the NATO-Russia Council, which is a very important step forward. This is not about NATO's core tasks, but about a number of other very important tasks which in themselves will create a very significant proximity between NATO countries and Russia. I think it is important that we now start working on the issues from which it is easy to get practical results, because we have to show practical results early. At the same time, some of the heavy, difficult problems have to start right away, even if it will take time before we get results. Areas such as anti-terrorism and weapons of mass destruction are two areas in which this Council should immediately begin. But the interesting thing about seeing these two things in context is that the thesis that lasted for many years, namely that a NATO enlargement was problematic in relation to Russia, and that it would put the cooperation back to Russia, this year turns out not to be right. So now we are taking a very big step forward in cooperation with Russia, the same year as a new round of enlargement comes, and that is why this argument is well placed on the scrappowder of history. The second point I wanted to raise is about Høglund's posts – just to make a little comment on what he said about European cooperation. I think that whatever we have to think about this, European cooperation is moving forward. In fact, it is already materialising that the EU is taking over the UN police operation in Bosnia, and Norway is involved. The second is that neither is it unmistakable that they will take over NATO's operation in Macedonia. It assumes that we have the NATO-EU agreement in place. I think that's over-mature, and I think this is the right way to go. And then to the third, which is about a few comments to the representative Jacobsen's post – not that I'm going to make his day even more difficult, but there's still a couple-three things that are necessary to say. One is this: when I hear Jacobsen talking about the anti-terrorism and the Afghanistan operation, there is something that tells me that it has not gone into SV the fact that in most people – probably in all – the predictions they had last autumn, they have made mistakes in all areas. There was no impression on SV. But it would be interesting to hear how they relate to it in that case – for this is probably sadly the reality. I fully agree with Jacobsen that the situation requires a broad approach. It is not just about military means, but it is about politics, legal instruments, it is about aid and one about the other. These are well-known Norwegian views that we have highlighted a number of times, and I am therefore very pleased with the connection to the line given by Jacobsen. It also means that military instruments are part of this. At that point, Jacobsen seems to mix defenses and attacks. I just want to remind you that what's going on in Afghanistan is defense of the attack on the World Trade Center this fall. The third point that I just have to mention to Jacobsen is that I have a feeling that it's very important for SV to always disagree with the United States, and that most phenomena are interpreted in that context. He was inside the nuclear weapon. I know that SV has a very clear policy on nuclear weapons, and I am therefore very surprised that Jacobsen did not find any reason to mention the fact that Bush and Putin have now concluded an agreement that means a very significant reduction in the number of nuclear weapons. But such a review will require a positive sign, and I understand that SV has problems with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e410	I'm standing here with the Evening Post and the Newspaper, and I'm a little surprised that this debate on NATO has no more of the new things that actually happen in NATO. It might be nice to get the Foreign Minister's view of the latest developments in NATO, where it is quite clear that the new doctrine of the United States can actually divide NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e415	I thought Jacobsen heard well after, because I explained the things that are now important in NATO – this is not least about enlargement, and it is about the NATO-Russia Council. I think he has to clarify the question he asked something more than what he was doing now. I would like to remind you that what the Americans did in connection with Afghanistan was just defending their interests, which is sanctioned in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, and which was sanctioned in a concrete UN and NATO decision. In the case of other military operations, there are many speculations in the press. We've seen that for months. There will certainly be disagreement about concrete political choices to be made. It has always been, and it will always be. But that's not what's the big and principal thing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e424	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e427	Since there have been many critical views on SV's comments in the position and the post by the representative Jacobsen, I would like to balance the picture by declaring myself 100% in agreement with one thing that has been said by SV, namely that there is a need for a comprehensive debate on NATO's role. That is why I am all the more surprised that SV is not able to contribute to such a debate, because it is obviously not able to determine the role that NATO can play at all. All the comments you make concretely are of a negative nature. You list a lot of things about what NATO shouldn't and can't be used for, but you don't give a single clue to the role SV imagines that NATO will have in the future. It would have been a little bit more interesting to listen to. When I asked instead how to claim that the new candidate countries that want to enter can have benefits from membership, it also requires that you are able to explain what benefits. It once again requires that you have a clear answer to what role NATO plays. If these countries can benefit from it, it must be because NATO plays a concrete role in security policy in today's world. When this is important, it is because in Norway, in general, we may be somewhat lagging behind in the major changes that have taken place. We've been used to thinking for more than half a hundred years that our needs are met by NATO, the point. Norwegian security needs have one answer, namely our NATO membership. Most recently, this was a review theme in 1994, when we discussed Norwegian EU membership. After that time, the security policy image has changed quite dramatically. And it's clear that there's a whole series of new issues in this. the balance between the European countries and the cooperation forums developed by the European countries in addition to NATO, where Norway is not a participant. That is why the NATO debate in Norway requires a lot more today than it did five years ago or ten years ago, and that is why it is important that we have a constructive, forward-looking response to what role Norway believes NATO should play in the future. And that is where I would like the SV to also sign up for the debate instead of resigning from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e437	Let me then be up-to-date. Perhaps the representative could answer me in terms of the new strategy that the United States clearly adopts. I said wrong, I called him something else -- NATO's Secretary-General is Lord George Robertson. What are the wages and salaries' comments that he clearly says that NATO is a defensive alliance? “We’re not going out looking for problems that need to be solved,” added Lord Robertson. In the evening post, he says this as a comment to Minister of Defense Rumsfeld – a very clear signal that the United States will have more free hands, will go out and be able to carry out preventive attacks. Can wages be involved in such a new doctrine, and my salary that Norway should also be able to accept and support such a new doctrine?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e444	To Jacobsen’s question – I understand that Jacobsen prefers to ask rather than answer all the questions he has been asked, because he has not answered one of them as far as I have been able to register. But I'd like to answer the question. I agree with Mr. Robertson, briefly and well, and should have liked to have participated in the discussion – the exchange of lines – between Mr. Robertson and Rumsfeld. I'm assuming that Jacobsen could also think of having participated in that discussion, and that we might agree on that point. I also believe that the disagreement between the US Secretary of Defense and Robertson is far on the way, because there is no officially adopted US doctrine at this point; there are different interpretations of commentators on the European side of the Atlantic. One of the reasons why we can be happy that NATO exists is that the United States is as committed as the other Member States, and that there is a common forum in which to resolve such disagreements. This is one of the reasons why we should be happy that SV has never had an impact on their desire to report Norway out of NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e451	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 3111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e480	The main focus of the Council of Europe has been on the construction of democracy in the new Member States of Central and Eastern Europe over the last decade. In January 2001, Armenia and Azerbaijan were recorded, and on 24 April this year Bosnia and Herzegovina became members of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe has further actively participated in the process of stabilising the political conditions in the Balkans within its core areas. Much of this work has taken place within the framework of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. The Committee, like the Government, is pleased that the Council of Europe has demonstrated in recent years the capacity for conversion and re-priority to meet major challenges arising from the Balkan crisis, in the first row of the Kosovo conflict. The Council of Europe has also developed close links over the years with a number of international non-governmental organisations active in the fields of the Council of Europe. Today it is approx. 400 organisations with cooperation status in the subject areas of the Council of Europe. In particular, it is positive that this cooperation has been developed specifically in the field of youth work. Cooperation between the Council of Europe and the OSCE was further strengthened in 2001, particularly in Kosovo. Cooperation was primarily concerned with areas such as human rights and strengthening the principles of the rule of law. The Council of Europe took the initiative in 2001 to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights and its Protocols. This is done to avoid two parallel systems of international law for the protection of human rights in Europe. The European Convention on Human Rights has a unique position in the European protection of human rights, in particular because of the European Court of Human Rights. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in binding decisions vis-à-vis States Party to the Convention. More and more cases are being promoted before the Court because an increasing number of countries have joined the Council of Europe. This trend is positive and important in the sense that now more than 800 million individuals can bring human rights cases before the Court. However, there is also a problematic trend, as it has led to a more difficult resource situation for the Court of Justice. The Committee believes it is important to focus on improving the resources situation of the Court of Justice, but at the same time we want to stress that primary responsibility for improving human rights lies with the Member States themselves. In this context, it is important that the Council of Europe be given increased resources to carry out its monitoring function in order to ensure that Member States comply with the provisions to which they are obliged under the European Convention on Human Rights. When repeated violations of human rights have been documented in a country, we should consider to a greater extent than today excluding countries from voting or membership. In this context, we have pointed to the problem of taking over the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers in May 2003, a country such as Moldova, where there are reports of ever more serious violations of human rights. For just a few months, a colleague with whom I joined the Parliamentary Assembly disappeared. We just read on the Internet that he had disappeared. Luckily, he was found a few weeks ago – in a very bad constitution, and we do not know for sure what happened, except that he was abducted. This shows some of the problems of relatively new democracies, for example: shall take over the chair of the Committee of Ministers. The fight against terrorism was on the agenda of the Ministerial Committee meeting in November 2001. From the Norwegian side, it was noted that the interaction between international organisations was important and that the Council of Europe should primarily contribute to its special fields, which are human rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law. The conflict in Chechnya has also been the subject of considerable attention and concern in the Council of Europe in 2001. The various bodies of the Council of Europe have been in continuous dialogue with the Russian authorities. The European Commissioner for Human Rights was in Chechnya twice, and he made both critical reports and the human rights situation there. A joint working group of representatives of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly and members of the Russian Duma was set up in 2001. The mandate of this group is to help find solutions to the conflict in Chechnya, promote the human rights situation and contribute to a better humanitarian situation in the Republic. The very treatment of Chechnya is a good example of the function of the Parliamentary Assembly. It may be the only forum where discussions have been held with top Russian politicians about the situation in Chechnya. I don't think it's ineffective when Russian top politicians, like that. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ivanov, party leaders such as Zjuganov, Zjirinovskij, are coming on the field – and when it got on top, Chernomyrdin also came on the field. I do not think it would be ineffective for these politicians to sit for hours and listen to democratic debates with strong critical input from most European countries. It also led to Russia being deprived of the right to vote for a period of time, which I believe had a positive effect in focusing on the unfortunate situation in Chechnya. This has at least helped to underline the justification and importance of the work carried out by the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e503	Did Haakon Blankenborg ask for a line, or did he ask for the word? Should he decide on the way up?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e506	No, I guess that's not a line. I agree with what the case spokesperson said at almost all points. It stands for the committee's account, and I also refer to the setting. But even if it is the committee's account, I still have two slightly small comments. I agree entirely with what the rapporteur says about the problems in some of the new Member States, but it should not be an impression after this debate that one is reserved in relation to the fact that new Member States take over the Presidency of the Council of Europe. That didn't mean the case spokesperson either. But it could be interpreted this way, and so I just wanted to make it clear that of course it's one of the great advantages that everyone is equal to, and that the Presidency rotates in the way it does. When it concerns the point of suspension or waiver of voting rights, it is a means that can be used. However, both the suspension of membership and the suspension of voting rights are a very rare means. Of course, one should avoid using it, but one must not give the impression that one is reserved when it relates to Presidency, so that one gives a signal that one should use suspension of voting rights as a more widespread instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e515	The President hopes that the debate on consensus will not be held too far,
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e518	I just want to make it clear that of course it's the only right thing that all the Member States do the same. I just pointed out – like what has also been done in the setting – the problem of finding the balance sheet. There have even been long discussions about which countries to put on a waiting list — and when do you pass the line that these countries are worthy to become full members? I guess it's just to remind you that Yugoslavia applied for membership in 1991, and they weren't even put on a waiting list. Then there are a number of other countries that have been on the waiting list for several years before they have become full members, and it has been because, through the Monetary Committee, human rights developments have been continually followed. Of course, it's very difficult to say when you've met enough conditions to get engaged as a member. But of course, when you're a member, everyone has to be treated the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e523	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[See page 3111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e539	September 11th has taught us that weapons on the way are not only bullets and powdered, but also civil aircraft, rockets, chemical and bacteriological weapons. The United States also arrested a man the other day suspected of bombing a bomb with radioactive material. The world has gone a long way from the time battles were fought with swords, to the development we see today, where one does not know what an enemy or a terrorist will use in his struggle to achieve a goal. But it must not prevent us from doing what can be done to prevent conventional weapons and ammunition from getting into the wrong hands. We also face people and groups who cynically employ new technologies to manufacture weapons for the purpose of attacking innocent civilians. The time we knew who the enemy was is over, but it must not make us see ghosts in every hook. It is important to take precautions, and that we become more careful about who we sell weapons to. We'd rather see a world without weapons, which is described in the song. «Tonight I dreamt something that I've never dreamed before. I dreamed it was peace on earth. And all the wars were ended. "Unfortunately, reality is far from this dream. It's a saying that 'you have no peace beyond the neighbour's will', and that's what we have to deal with, whether it's politics, religion, tribes, peoples, or fight for land and water. An ever-increasing population and differences between poor and rich do not make the situation brighter, but neither does it justify killing innocent people to achieve their goals. This communication, which we are now discussing, provides an overview of Norwegian exports of defence equipment for the year 2001, with lists and tables, and concerns export control and international non-proliferation cooperation. Given the unstable situation in many parts of the world, the Foreign Affairs Committee considers it important to maintain strict control of arms exports and technologies that can be used to manufacture weapons and to which countries they are exported. Many of the armed conflicts in the world also appear to be becoming more bloody and prolonged through the administration of smuggled weapons. It is therefore important to develop measures against illicit arms trafficking, including: by improving border control against countries in conflict. Norway’s export control is an important body to prevent the proliferation of weapons and is based to a large extent on international cooperation in this area and the commitments undertaken by the participating countries. The Committee is also pleased that most developed countries, and hence the largest suppliers of sensitive goods and technology, are involved in the cooperation. Multilateral export control in recent years has become an important tool in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the build-up of conventional military capacity that could threaten the stability and security of an area. In the fight against terrorism, the Committee believes that it is important to prevent arms and technology from coming into the hands of groups or persons whose civil lives are aimed at promoting their cause. Therefore, restrictive policies still need to be pursued regarding the sale of weapons and technology. The Foreign Affairs Committee also considers it very important that we be associated with international control bodies that exchange relevant information, including as regards the development of control lists of goods and technology relevant in the context of terrorism. The Foreign Affairs Committee is also pleased that intensive efforts have been undertaken to strengthen cooperation to prevent terrorists from accessing chemical, biological or production and dissemination equipment precursors. It is also gratifying that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has initiated a review of the Norwegian Export Control Code with a view to carrying out a necessary update in order to meet the new political situation and a procedure to ensure that there is satisfactory evidence before an export authorisation can be granted. This must also apply to goods related to maintenance, repairs and spare parts and requires close cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the exporters. In the international context, Norway has relatively modest exports of defence equipment, and the Norwegian defence industry produces and exports to a small extent complete weapon systems. Components, parts, electronic equipment and explosives were the predominant part of exports. It is important in today's situation that we maintain a high technological standard on both the weapons we export and the ones we import. It's better to be led was than for quick. Some would argue that too much money is spent on weapons and weapon systems, money that could have been used to improve the situation for many people. But the situation in the world is unfortunately not such that we can gamble with our security and defense, and that is this world to which we must relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e592	I am very pleased that the Government of Great Britain says the following: ‘After a fresh assessment and clear commitments by the Turkish Government on further action to improve the human rights situation in the country, the supply of Penguin marine target missiles to the Turkish maritime defence was authorised in December 1999.’ – Measures to improve the human rights situation. I'm glad the government confirms that there has been a problem. That's why we've put in a few comments about it, and we conclude with, and we think, Norway shouldn't export weapons because of the actual human rights situation in Turkey. I have a long list here of it. I'm not going to read it out, just say cards that there's enough to take off, enough that at least we shouldn't export weapons to Turkey just because of the human rights violations that go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e609	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e624	The matter is about a proposal that the Storting should ask the Government to set up a people's fund for the Palestinian refugees, to contribute a significant amount and to invite the Norwegian people to participate. The Committee has gathered in a brief joint note initially, stating that the situation in the Middle East calls for strong international initiatives to bring the parties out of the present mischief. I believe that behind this joint remark there is also a common understanding that a solution in the Middle East must cover all the four main areas: firstly, stop violence and terror, and secondly, find a solution to the status of Jerusalem. Thirdly, the border problem needs to be solved — it really includes an agreement on practical, functional, fair land distribution — and fourthly, the question of refugees needs to be resolved, recognising that there is a formal right initially for the Palestinian refugees to return. The question of the right of return of Palestinian refugees is also one of several important issues identified by the Oslo Agreement in the final status negotiations between Israel and the PLO. The question was also central in the US-led negotiations at Camp David in July 2000 and in the subsequent rounds of negotiations in Taba the same harvest. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, believes that it would be preferable to anticipate events if we were to start negotiations on a ‘final settlement’ at the same time as entering into a truce. The majority understand that the so-called final settlement could be an important element of an overall approach to final status negotiations. However, the parties are far from having such negotiations per year. today, and the majority is opposed to the creation of capital bases as large as are likely to remain unused for a long time. The majority have also stated that such funds will be able to cover a number of types of compensation and believe that it must be possible to work much more on the legal side before any kind of compensation scheme can be established and which also depends to a large extent on the kind of solutions to be developed in the final status negotiations. Norway is already contributing to other purposes for the Palestinian refugees. In 2002, the total amount was 520 million. kr. The majority believe that Norway should continue its political and financial support work to address the problem of refugees, but is convinced that one in the current situation from Norway can handle the tasks it faces within the current instrument. The minority of the Committee, composed of the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, will probably present its position on its own. As rapporteur of the case, I would just like to mention briefly that the minority argues that there no longer appears to be a basis for a gradual development towards a political solution through confidence and security promotion measures and therefore believes that when negotiations start again, it is necessary to engage directly in final status negotiations. The minority estimates the question of refugee status as one of the most difficult to solve, and therefore believes it is important to start a long-term work on preparing a solution to this problem. The majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e648	The Middle East conflict seems to be getting worse every day that goes. What we see is that radical nationalism and fundamentalism win terrain on both sides. In Israel, those who have always believed that the occupied territories belong to Israel do not deserve to be returned to the Palestinians. On the Palestinian side, we also see radical nationalism, or fundamentalism, which has never accepted the State of Israel, but which, on the contrary, has had the aim of destroying the State of Israel. There's a lot from these groups, like Hezbolla and Hamas, that the terror in the area now has its origin. This terror is not only intended to destroy the State of Israel and thus put a line across the Oslo process, but also to undermine and dispel the Palestinian leadership that has accepted the Oslo agreement's step-by-step process towards a Palestinian state. If we are to win the war on terror, which has been part of the debate earlier today, it is quite clear that we must also create peace in the Middle East, or resolve the conflict between Palestinians and Israelis. The fact that the conflict has thus had a major impact on our own security comes as a further justification for what is the original and real reason for creating peace in the Middle East, namely that Israel – after 50 years of war and terror – is entitled to security, and that the Palestinians have a right to freedom. The issue of refugee is probably the most difficult to resolve in future final status negotiations. Moreover, as I have said, there can be no peace and no end to terror if one does not create a future for the Palestinians – a fair solution for the Palestinian refugees. Many people say that only we can create a Palestinian state, there will be peace, and we will end the terror. In my opinion, this is an error assessment. Without creating a future for the hundreds of thousands who live in the camps in many Arab countries, and who are probably never going to be able to come to a Palestinian state, there will be no peace. This is about people who have lived in the camps since 1948. Others have come to a later conclusion, but they have something in common: they have largely no citizenship where they are. They have had no opportunity to get out of the camps to work. And their children have also not been able to get out of the camps to go to school. Only in all these decades, through its UNRWA refugee organization, has the United Nations provided a fairly worthwhile life for these hundreds of thousands of people living in the camps in Beirut, Syria, Kuwait, throughout the region. What also seems very clear is that the parties will not be able to solve this issue themselves. The international community must, in my view, take the same responsibility for the Palestinian refugees that international society took for the Jews when they established the State of Israel in 1948. If this question is to be solved, we're probably facing one of the absolute greatest international actions ever. What is the point of the proposal we have put forward is that the international community should already say clearly that it wants to take such a responsibility. This will not prejudge the negotiations, as the rapporteur, Mr Vallersnes, said in his statement. It could facilitate the parties' way back to the negotiations, precisely because this is probably the most difficult question for them to solve. Of course, the border question is difficult. Of course, it's hard to find a solution to the Jerusalem question. But it is probably even more difficult to find a future for all the people living outside the Palestinian area and beyond the borders of Israel. Therefore, the international community should clearly express its wish to contribute to a solution, helping the parties to find a solution to this issue, including: by the fact that the United Nations should already set up an international fund which can be made available to the parties or for which the United Nations may be responsible by itself, under the committee already set up in 1952 to deal with the Palestinian refugees. It may be a fund that can be used to finance the solution that the parties may agree on. Norway can now take the lead by setting up a national fund. It may be a first start to establish the international fund which can be made available for the solution that the parties may agree on. The proposal put forward by the Workers' Party's representatives in the Foreign Affairs Committee was not only endorsed, but was welcomed by the Israeli Labour Party and Israel's Meretz, which, if we are to make a comparison with Norwegian policy, is Israel's SV, and the Palestinian leadership who was present at a meeting of the Socialist International in Casablanca just a short time ago. It was stated that this question was part of the solution discussed during the Camp David negotiations, led by President Clinton. This has not been taken straight out of the air. It is part of what has been discussed and is likely to be part of the solution that needs to come into a future final status debate. If one is to think about what Norway can now contribute to this conflict, where Norway has played a significant role, it is clear that it must be different from what it has been. Now it is the so-called Quartet – the European Union, the United States, Russia and the United Nations – that has taken over the management of it all. And it is clear that there can be no solution in the Middle East without this Quartet holding together and taking management in relation to the two parties. But Norway can play an important role in the area where we have been heavy, where we have great expertise and where we have great credibility. That is what I have said as the most difficult thing to solve in this conflict, namely the question of the Palestinian refugees. We've been a very heavy player within the UNRWA refugee organization for all of our years. We have provided expertise and knowledge on the Palestinian refugees, including: in the last negotiations that were at Camp David and Taba, and we have credibility in relation to both parties in these areas, not least in relation to the Palestinian refugees living in the camps. This means that we are credible and heavy here, and therefore Norway can also play a role in the important work that needs to be done to relaunch the final status negotiations. The point of the proposal is to engage in an area in which we actually have the opportunity to play a positive and constructive role in what is now to come. There can be no doubt that if, as I said at the outset, you want to win the fight against terrorism, the quartet that has come to the fore to do so must also function constructively in relation to the Middle East conflict. That is why I am convinced that we need to move quite quickly towards final status negotiations. If one is to learn some of the processes that have been followed by the Oslo Agreement in 1993, it must be that one cannot now seek a new interim solution. We've had a lot of interim solutions, but they haven't been implemented. It's taken too long. It's caused frustration on both sides. That's probably one of the reasons we're there today. As a result, more and more people believe that an international conference on the Middle East must now be sought as soon as possible and that the final status issues mentioned in the Oslo Agreement must then be addressed. And as I said, the most important and difficult thing is the solution for the Palestinian refugees. I have to say that I am somewhat surprised that the Government and government parties are not willing to engage in a broad cooperation on this in Norway, so that as a nation we could take an important initiative in this area. Then, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, I will address our proposal, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e671	Thorbjørn Jagland has drawn up the proposal he himself did well for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e674	Everyone acknowledges the need for a solution for the Palestinian refugees in the final status negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. Everyone also acknowledges that the international community needs financial compensation in order to find a solution to the refugee issue. That is why it is sad that the Stortinget is not able today to establish a majority for a fund scheme, so that Norway can show the way in this matter. There is, in principle, a formal right of return for the Palestinian refugees, including: deposited in UN General Assembly Resolution 194 of 11 December 1948. There's been a lot of water in the sea since 1948, and how the refugee question is to be solved in practice is one of the most difficult questions in the negotiations we hope will come in the near future. It's almost impossible to imagine a solution to the refugee question without finding financial compensation schemes. The Centre Party therefore believes that Norway should go to the top in order to find arrangements that can give the Palestinians hope that financial compensation will be included as part of the final negotiations. But it means that the majority of people do not have to do so, despite the fact that the same majority recognize that considerable resources will have to be made available from the international community in the fullness of time. The means of economic compensation will have to be made available independently of traditional aid operations, and it would therefore be desirable to start building a fund. This fund could, as the Workers' Party has proposed, have had its origins in a purely Norwegian fund. Another option would have been that Norway initiated an international fund and that the Stortinget instructed the Government to provide a significant amount if it was possible to gain international understanding of such a fund. But this softer version was not possible either. It is sad that the Labour Party's proposal is being voted down today, and that it has not been possible to find some sort of fund arrangement that the government parties could accept. Having a majority for a fund arrangement could have contributed positively to the further process in the Middle East. Let's hope that the Government's position in this matter is not an expression of a reduced involvement in the Middle East, it would be unfortunate for the process in the region and definitely for Norway's international reputation. Norway’s task should continue to be to contribute constructively and creatively to a peaceful solution in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e686	I think it is a somewhat peculiar interpretation of the course of this case when the representative Haga interprets it as saying that there is a smaller involvement from Norway in relation to the Middle East. I can't see that it's a mess on the ground. If the wish had been to achieve cross-political and broad cooperation on concrete measures, it would probably not be the most nearby starting point to be a Document No. 8-proposals submitted by representatives of one batch without any prior consultation at all. There is no disagreement that the refugee problem is a central component, of course it is a consensus. Of course, Norway also agrees to follow up the financial commitments we have already undertaken — perhaps to a greater extent than any other country — it explicitly states in the Committee’s position. The issue of disagreement is whether a fund design is a sensible instrument in this context, and in particular the fund design contained in the proposal, which is a kind of mirrored version of the traditional Norwegian TV collections. There the Norwegian government tends to get up with a substantial amount in addition to what is collected. Here you suggest the reverse order – The size should grant a substantial amount, and then you should go out and collect money for the fund. It must be allowed to be doubtful about such a construction without being accused of having any less involvement in finding solutions in the Middle East context. I also have to say that the reasons given by the proposers, as expressed in the speeches by Mr Jagland, strengthened my sense of mixing the roles a little, because, after all, this is not the Israeli working party to which we, as a state, are going to relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e695	I said in my speech that I hope that the government's lack of willingness to participate in this proposal cannot be interpreted as less involvement in the Middle East context. The starting point is, as the representative, Mr Jagland also pointed out, that it is the Quartet who is now sitting in the driver's seat in relation to the international process surrounding the situation in the Middle East. Norway has had a significant involvement in the Middle East, with which all in this room are unusually well known. We should not now face a situation where we do not take advantage of the historical experience we have in relation to the process, and thus do not contribute constructively. I have trouble seeing the constructive commitment of the government to finding new inputs that can still make us relevant, and that can help us play constructively in relation to the Middle East process. Then there are many ways of thinking that such a fund could have been set up, one of which is the proposal of the representative of Jagland and others from the Workers' Party of the Foreign Affairs Committee. But I also didn't feel that it was the will of the committee to look at other ways that could have been used to set up a fund. There was really no willingness to go into a thought that relates to funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e704	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e707	Usually there is a broad consensus on foreign policy, but I have to say that the way this proposal was launched was more marked by being a political mark than by a desire to work out a broad consensus on this proposal. In the opinion of the Government, there is initially a formal right for the Palestinian refugees to return. This is confirmed in UN General Assembly Resolution 194 of 1948, which follows from 4. Article 49 of the Geneva Convention, and it is considered as general international law, that a State cannot expel a population under its control. These relationships are clear. But there are also other factors that have to be included. A long time has passed, and only a few of the refugees who were driven out in 1948 are living today. Restoring the original state will therefore be difficult. However, there is another principle of international law that the State that violates international law is liable if the violation of international law cannot be compensated by other means. Article 91 of the First Additional Protocol to the Geneva Convention. Therefore, obtaining compensation could be an alternative to non-returnable refugees. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify that the solution in the Middle East can only be found through negotiation. Suicide actions, military operations, boycotts or sanctions are not the solution to lasting peace in the Middle East. The Oslo Agreement states that the right of return of refugees must be negotiated and that this is part of the final status negotiations between Israel and the PLO. Refugee issues were also central in the negotiations at Camp David and Taba in 2000. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, said to the evening post on 16 April this year that the Palestinian refugees are ‘the main obstacle to peace’. And he says that there will be no peace until the refugees get a place to live. The representative, Igland, has said that he believes that the international community must be involved in building new homes for the refugees outside the refugee camps. The refugees themselves do not want this. In the Jordan Valley, this was tried, but the settlement was demolished by the refugees. The Labour Party has been concerned about finding a social solution to the problem rather than a political solution. There is no doubt that the Palestinian refugees live under difficult conditions. In Lebanon, more than 200,000 Palestinians live in camps, and they are denied the right to citizenship, which hampers public social benefits, work and access to health services. In Syria and Jordan too, Palestinians are denied welfare rights, and they have no fundamental political rights. The Christian People's Party does not doubt the tragedy and difficult conditions of many Palestinian refugees. It is no comfort, but in comparison, the Palestinian refugees have it no worse than Palestinians who are not refugees. In Fafo’s 1997 report, figures show that the availability of shelter, the quality of education and the average of education are higher among refugees than among non-Palestinian Palestinians. Therefore, if you are really concerned about social issues, you should concentrate on strengthening the UN Relief Organisation for Palestinian Refugees, UNRWA. A report by UNRWA's General Commissioner shows that during the 1990s the allocation to the Palestinian refugees has been reduced by 26 pst. per capita. The establishment of UNRWA was initially linked to Resolution 194 and for the refugees the organisation symbolizes the international community's responsibility for them. It is therefore difficult to see that the creation of a new fund should be able to do anything other than weaken UNRWA, the institution the Palestinians themselves wish to manage their financial lives. And the representative, Jagland, pointed out in his speech the importance of what UNRWA is doing. It would be wrong to make the problem of Palestinian refugees a humanitarian problem. It's more extensive than that. It is a political problem that requires a political solution. Starting an action to build houses for Palestinian refugees will therefore be a derailment. It is true that the Palestinian refugees need support and that the refugee problem must be part of the Middle East solution. But I don't think setting up a Norwegian people's fund, as Jagland has outlined, is a solution. A fund for Palestinian refugees must be on their own premises to contribute to peace. It is also important to be clear that it is not just the refugee question that remains. There are also other key areas of conflict that need to be resolved in negotiations, such as borders, access to water and the status of Jerusalem. It would therefore be unfortunate to deal with the refugee question on its own and in that way anticipate the course of events. Me and the Christian People's Party share Thorbjørn Jagland's commitment to contributing to peace. I think perhaps some of the idea with the proposal that a people's fund should be set up is that if the Palestinians know that the money is now ready on a fund, this will in itself be an instrument to move forward and reach a lasting agreement quickly, and Iland said that the international community should state that it will contribute. I fully agree with that, but then it should be sufficient for the international community to give assurances on this, and it is therefore unnecessary to set up a fund. In the context of the Camp David negotiations, which was led by President Jimmy Carter in his time, between Egypt and Israel, there came at last quite a lot of money on the table, and it was perhaps the seventh and last thing that helped to make an agreement between Menachem Begin and Anwar Sadat. There is no doubt that it takes a lot of money to get a permanent agreement. I think maybe that Senator Mitchell's proposal to go in with a large one-off amount can be a way to go, but then there has to be a broad solution and something that involves much more than just the refugee question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e740	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e743	We have heard from two speakers that that is the way the proposal is presented, which is the problem. If we had known that we had taken on Lars Rise and Inge's salary on the proposal manufacturer's list, this could have been passed on, we would of course have asked them in advance. Åslaug Haga and others have managed to join the proposal by looking at the content and not the list of proposers. There must be something else behind it. What we heard in the last article is the mixture that the minority in the Committee warns against, simply to mix the work of the refugees today with the fund that we are proposing to create, which will be used to find a solution. So I stress to Lars Rise that there is just one difference in this, that it can't be said that working with the refugees' situation today – we also underline – but this is something that should be used when reaching a solution, and we also believe that it could help you reach a solution faster. It is quite impossible to understand that it is necessary to wait for all the pieces to be placed on the table before making constructive proposals to speed up the peace process in the Middle East. We think that this is a play that other countries will be able to join, that other countries can do the same, giving a clear political signal. Saying like Lars Rise that one should wait until all the other factors in the Middle East conflict are also on the table, and then get one back, is a very defensive hold to the big problems we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e753	I clearly see the positive intentions of the proposal here. I mentioned the way it was launched, but that's not the very reason that Inge Wohnung or I or others have gone against it. I mentioned a lot of reasons in my article. But if the purpose was to bring together a broad dissension about this, I thought it was a little strange to promote it as a Document No. Eight proposals, and that it came as a surprise in a spontaneous question hour. It's common here in the house that you can have other ways of working. But it has not been said that the other arguments against the proposal do not apply. To get back to what happened when the Camp David agreement was concluded between Egypt and Israel: it was quite unthinkable that before the agreement was concluded, they would pay 10 billion dollars to the parties and that would lead to that they would certainly conclude the agreement. After all, it was through very difficult negotiations that a lasting peace agreement was reached between Israel and Egypt, and the carrot was finally paid out considerable funds to both countries. I think it would be a wrong way to go foreshadowing events by creating a so-called people's fund first.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e760	It is not such that a suggestion is made to pay the parties money before a solution is reached. That is precisely the point, that one should have this fund as a declaration of will, which others may also come up with, so that one has a guarantee that one can do something concrete that day the solution is on the table. Because what you've seen in awfully many and perhaps less complicated conflicts is that there may be promise of money, but when that day comes that there's a solution, the money can be far inside. If one had gone on an initiative like this, one could have had a solid proof that there are resources available on the day of the agreement, and that's exactly what this is all about. But if Lars Rise can think of another way to put forward such suggestions, he is most welcome to do so. It shall not be on us when it comes to joining those proposals, if the content is in the same direction, if it has a more flexible way of submitting proposals than a Document No. 8 proposals, which we meant was a pretty precise and straightforward way to put this forward. So warmly welcome, we shall support the proposal when it comes, if it is the same proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e765	We have said several times now that we see the positive intentions behind this proposal. It also, as far as I remember, expressed Prime Minister Bondevik when he was asked about this in the spontaneous question hour. When the representative, Mr Jagland, said in his speech that the international community should express its wish to contribute, there is something different than actually establishing a fund. I understand that if you create a fund, it also has to be paid in cash. It has not been said that they must be paid immediately. But it has to be enough that the international community gives assurances that you're ready to contribute, and it should be unnecessary that you actually set up the fund and make sure to make payments for it, and then it has it standing there like some kind of carrot. Insurance from the international community should be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e770	I have to go back on this, because the idea that an international fund under the UN Security Council should prejudge the course of events has to be almost bottomless about what this is all about and what the problem is. It's definitely not that it's going to happen, it's the opposite, so there's hardly any people on this planet who have more reason to suspect that you can be let down when it comes to the end of the day than the Palestinian refugees. So it is clear that on the day that there is not only a resolution in the United Nations Security Council, but also money and a fund to finance a solution that they can sign, it is something quite different than a resolution that dates from 1948, which is not a Security Council resolution, but a General Assembly resolution. It must be clear that it is something quite different to have a decision in the UN Security Council than a resolution in the General Assembly. And if you also have the fact that the international community, by setting up such a fund, says that this means we're serious, then it's something quite different for the Palestinian refugees than Rise wants, that's a political insurance. Those who have lived in these camps for so many decades, and have been abandoned so many times, I think I need something more than exactly what Lars Rise talked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e779	I have to bear in mind that I may have misunderstood what was meant, and how this fund was to be administered, but the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, pointed out to the evening post on April 16th this year that the Palestinian refugees are “the main obstacle to peace” and that there will be no peace until the refugees get a place to live. And he went on to say that he believes that the international community must be involved in building new homes for the refugees outside the refugee camps. But we know that the refugees themselves don't want this. In the Jordan Valley, it was tried, but the homes were demolished by the refugees. I think it would have been an advantage if we could have discussed this a little bit further, and that's what I was also about when I talked about the way the proposal was promoted: what's the idea behind the fund, how to manage it, and what's actually going to be the effect of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e786	It can't be unclear to Lars Rise what this is about. It's not about building homes for the Palestinian refugees anywhere in the Middle East now. It's about financing a solution that both parties can sign. If we are to solve the problem for the Palestinian refugees, we need to build homes somewhere they can move to, or we need to find a solution where they are. That's what this is about. It's not about building dwellings in the Jordan Valley or anywhere else now. And it's not about a humanitarian operation in the framework of UNRWA's activities today, for UNRWA's activities today are about working socially on education and health issues in the camps. There are issues of creating a future for these people outside the camps, as an agreement will sign, and the international community must finance this agreement. So the fact that you should have spent much more time clarifying this, I have no faith in it, because you don't have to clarify more than what is in the setting. And if the problem was that there was a Document No. Eight proposals from the Workers' Party, and we'll get to know it. But if there is another way to discuss this issue in Stortinget, you should come up with it, and then you should launch a proposal that we would like to sit down and discuss. Nothing would be better than that. But here there is a rejection of the proposal, and with a justification that, in my opinion, does not keep water, and that does not relate to the reality of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e801	I do not think the disagreement between us is as great as it can be heard in this debate, because the Government fully agrees with what is set out in this proposal, that it is important to ensure the right of the Palestinian refugees to return. But the Oslo agreements make it clear that this is something to be negotiated about, and that this is part of the final status negotiations. And then, in fact, the government parties have thought that things should happen in chronological order. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e806	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e810	When it seems that we need to spend more time in the committee itself if it's just the way the proposals are presented, we're going to spend more time in the committee. The Palestinian refugees have been on the brink of the last peace negotiations. That's why this proposal is a new and good track that we in SV found it a pity that the government party can't be involved, if they want to be more involved with what's happening right now. We could have rightly also thought that it would have been even clearer that the Palestinian requirements not only concerned the right to return home and the right to compensation based on UN Resolution 194 and the Declaration of Human Rights Article 13 but also that the fund itself should have been based on this clear commitment. There is little doubt that the needs of Palestinian refugees are political and not social. I would like to point out that for SV, the creation of a fund is linked to the fact that the refugee question is not a negotiating card linked to negotiations on the abolition of occupied areas. Retirement from the occupied territories and the creation of a Palestinian State may take place without resolving the refugee problem, on the basis of UN Resolution 194 and the Declaration of Human Rights, on the basis of which future negotiations are based. And so is the fact that the basis for this problem is, as several Norwegian organisations have tried to get in the media lately, on the 1950 Return Act in Israel. Israel is actually the only state that has a right that says that an ethnic group has greater rights than others, i.e. an ethnic group. There are many names of such state formations up through the years. I'm not going to refer them, but there's the main problem, that there's an ethnic group.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e821	I listened with great attention to what Thorbjørn Jagland said, and I want to say that I very much agree with what he said, in many of the considerations he has both about the situation in the Middle East and about the situation further. I fully agree that going straight into the final status negotiations will be right. I think it is very important that we now have an international conference. Therefore, I would say that I agree with much of what was said, with the exception of the conclusion itself. It's a very difficult situation we're now facing. The parties lack basic trust in each other and are far from each other. It is therefore right that the outside world engages, and engages strongly, and not least engages with ideas and looks at different possibilities and options to solve the many difficult problems that are up. Unfortunately, the refugee question is only one of many difficult questions, but it is perhaps one of the most difficult. What probably divides us here is that I believe very strongly that with regard to the many ideas, which it is very valuable to play out, and many will be so good that they should also form the basis for the solution, it is not particularly helpful that they come to ongoing voting in the Storting in the form of Document No. Eight proposals. That's what's the problem with the approach that's been chosen here. I think that everyone here in the Chamber, after listening to this debate, has come to realize that this is probably not of the Storting's most successful debates on the Middle East. Bringing a case to voting at this stage is probably not very helpful in relation to the solution itself. Clearly, refugee issues will be among the most difficult issues, and there are two main components. One is to decide what the solution would be, and the other is how to finance it. What Thorbjørn Jagland has taken out in his proposal is an idea of how to do the last thing. But I think you might recognize that whether this fund is set up today or not, of course, will not have anything to bear on what the result will ultimately be, or whether the result will be implemented. In this way, the outcome of voting has relatively little to do with the final results. That's essentially what's the point. I hope and believe that future debates and ideas on how to approach the Middle East issues, which I stress to the greatest extent we need, occur in a form that is more suited to the final result than the Workers' Party has found in this round. But Thorbjørn Jagland's posts again I would like to say that I listened with great interest. In this way there was a tremendous contrast between Thorbjørn Jagland's posts and Åslaug Hagas's less successful patch. I have to say that when she managed to get herself to say that she hoped that this was not an expression of a reduced commitment by the Government, my question is: how in all days can Åslaug Haga at all come to the idea that it should be? Anyone who follows the least in Norwegian Middle East policy will know that there is no basis for that kind of insinuation. I thought that Åslaug Haga had a better grip on it than she obviously has, and I must say that the kind of insinuations I would have asked myself. I think that Åslaug Haga himself will be worth sorting out his play a little better than what she did today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e839	I can agree with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that it is not particularly helpful that ideas arrive at ongoing voting in Stortinget. Now, that's not the case. It's not like we here in the Stortinget vote for a lot of suggestions on the Middle East question. The problem is rather the reverse, that there are not too many ideas. Norway has made sure that we've sometimes played ideas and that we've played a role in this. That one idea comes to mind in the committee first and then in Stortinget, I don't think there can be any problem. If the problem has been that it has been promoted by the Workers' Party through a Document No. 8 suggestions, we'll take it into account, and then we can work on the question in a different way. There's no problem for us. If another party is able to make similar proposals, we shall sit down in the Foreign Affairs Committee, discuss it through and put in place a scheme that will hopefully benefit the whole of the United Kingdom. The point is to be helpful in the negotiations. So the Foreign Minister said something we're happy about, and I agree with. He said there's two questions here: what is the solution, what is it going to be? It must be negotiated by the parties. And then that's the question: how is it to be financed? There is a broad consensus, namely that we agree that a solution should be negotiated and that the international community should be involved in financing the solution. What is our point of view is that if the international community makes clear and also through such a fund, it would confirm that you will be involved in financing solutions, it is easier to figure out what the solution is for the two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e846	I think it was a good approach to the question that Thorbjørn Jagland now had, and I'm especially pleased that he says that the ideas should not come continuously to voting, because I think it's just important to have that flexibility in everything. However, my thesis is that it is important now to establish what consensus will be on, and then it will be difficult to find a funding mechanism that matches what is agreed on in that case. I share in many ways the concern I have expressed in my previous post, namely that the economic scale here is going to be enormous, and that means that there will be a strong pressure on the international community to really come up with mechanisms. But my point is that I don't think that question will be particularly determined by what you vote over right now. I think it must be such a large part of the negotiations you are going to discuss, that at the same time you will find a solution to that question. I think it can actually also be that if you start to play up ideas of that kind without the international community being able to find a really powerful solution to it, it won't be very helpful in advance either. It's just at the moment you get a more powerful solution to it, that you'll be helpful, and that's probably not all the world's big chances of doing that. So I would recommend that, perhaps in the further development of defining the Norwegian role in this debate, we do not use the form of voting to define that role.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e853	We have been prepared in a written reply by the Foreign Minister, and it is quite clear that one can count it as universal international law that a state cannot legally drive out a population that is under that state's control. It goes down in the foreign minister's answer that if the international crime cannot otherwise be compensated, it is clear that this state is liable. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view this, of course, in relation to Israel's role as a substitute? As the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, it costs a lot of money, even though we know that there is not going to be money on when it comes to a final peace settlement. But does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that Israel is in a special position, and that this proposal that is here could have been a start on thinking in those bananas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e860	Now I'm a little confused about where Jacobsen really thought about, because what he's referring to is an answer that's not given in this case, but as far as I remember, is an answer to a written question-time question. What this matter is about is how we are going to establish the mechanisms that solve the refugee issues, in such a way that the parties agree on it. It's a very complicated question. I'm not quite sure what Jacobsen asked questions about, but probably it was about how Israel would contribute to this. I would believe that Israel has to make a very significant contribution here, but I do not see the question so that the international community should not be part of the solution for that reason. The whole premise of Jacobsen's own proposal to promote is that the international community must also make a contribution to this issue. So I'm a little uncertain about what Jacobsen was after. I must therefore be allowed to leave the answer with what I have now said. But I have to be allowed to attach a comment to one assumption he put into his question. He said it should not be on money if you first reach the solution. I'm sorry, I'm afraid that's just going to happen. We have too many experiences with so many crises in the world; it is easy to express what money you want to send with a solution, but unfortunately the money does not come. The main challenge facing international society in many contexts is to really pay out what you promise. Afghanistan is just up in that situation right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e869	Did the President understand that Inge Wohnning was asking for the word in reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e872	No, I asked for the word for an article.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e877	Several have not asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e880	I do not need a reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. On the other hand, I need to clarify a misunderstanding which has obviously arisen with the representatives of Blankenborg and Jagland, namely that the reason for not supporting this proposal would be that it was tabled by the Workers' Party. Of course not. The reason is that we do not consider it a fruitful idea to create a fund structure that is, first of all, as unclear as what is outlined in this proposal, and which, secondly, also has a rather vague connection with what is the political content of what you say you want to solve by the groups in the Middle East conflict, namely the refugee issues. It is unclear both how the issue of refugee issues is going to get into the further development of the Middle East conflict, and it is unclear as far as time perspective is concerned. The only thing that's clear is that the purpose is to achieve some kind of symbol effect, which you think should be significant. The symbolic effect shall be that you have set off a amount of money that will be held in some account and increase, probably through interest. In general, I think this is a method that is not highly recommendable. It has become very popular both in Norwegian domestic policy and in other contexts to set up funds in close time and in vain when giving signals. I don't think that's a sensible way to pursue economic policy. Nor do I think that setting up a fund today in Norway or perhaps a few other countries will increase the overall effort of the international community. For what will have to be paid here at some point, it will have to be paid whether you have created a fund or not. So I just think that the whole idea of a fund is a dead end. That's why we're negative to it. What I said about Document No. In fact, eight proposals as a form of work in this context were just the coin of what is a general experience in this house, that Document No. Eight proposals are presented for a wide range of purposes. Sometimes it is presented because you want it to be adopted through the widest possible cooperation. They tend to investigate in advance, so that they are assured that there is a potential majority for it. Sometimes you want to highlight a point of view that you want more or less implicitly to vote in the Storting, and that's in itself a very good way of running politics. But I think that, in particular, the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs should see it as a kind of special obligation, if the intention is to establish the widest possible consensus on an advance, to investigate it in advance rather than to launch it publicly and then to present it to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e892	I have a comment on some of the issues raised in the debate. I started with the representative, Åslaug Haga, who said that there was no willingness in the committee to discuss alternative designs or solutions. Then, for my part, I have to remember that during the March here it was actually suggested by our side that one could agree on a formulation that would encourage the Government to be active in influencing the international community to develop the necessary economic instruments that can be used for the purpose for which one is here. But it was obviously not the exact fund solution, as one here wanted to achieve. And it well illustrates that a minority person was reasonably locked in the particular model contained in the proposal. It has also come to the conclusion that you disagree on what the money should do, and you think that a majority of people mix the purposes somewhat. I will reject that. I believe that if a reader reads the majority comment, it is quite clear that one realizes that one here is to fund purposes other than those traditionally funded and still financed in the Middle East, and in favour of the Palestinian refugees. It can be seen that if a majority reads the majority comment carefully, one has also gone into what kind of compensation a person sees as it would then be appropriate to include in such a new settlement arrangement, and that there is clearly a significant unsolved legal side that needs to be worked on before one can specify what the settlement would include. And there's given a number of examples of that. But it illustrates to the extent that one of the majority is also aware that this is a whole new issue of settlement, in addition to those who are engaged today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e901	We now got clarification from Inge Wohnung that it was not that this proposal was made by the Workers' Party, which was the reason for rejecting it. Then he used the rest of his post to talk about that there was a problem not only that the Workers' Party had promoted it, but that it was even I who had promoted it. So here it must be a problem. As I said, if there is any other way of reaching agreement, if another person or other party is promoting a proposal on how to proceed here, we are willing to discuss it. But I have to say that with the background of some experience we've had lately, there's probably reason to suspect that it was just a problem that the Workers' Party promoted it. No salary said, among other things. earlier in the debate, on my note, that the Israeli Labour Party had not only supported but welcomed this proposal along with the Palestinian leadership and the Israeli Meretz, and he says that we should not deal with the Israeli Labour Party. No, but now it's like this party is currently sitting with the Foreign Minister in Israel, so it's not so insignificant what this party thinks, and you have to assume that it's on account of the Israeli government. But if it's a problem that I'm referring to the Israeli Labour Party, which has the Foreign Minister, I get a suspicion that there's some of the dog buried here. It's not a symbol effect we're after. When Inge Wohnung says that what has to be paid has to be paid anyway, we agree in principle. But as Haakon Blankenborg said, you don't always have the same good experience in what is promised in advance, in relation to what comes later. Just this population has more cause for suspicion than others, taking into account the way in which Palestinian refugees have been treated. And just Norway, which has had such an extent and such credibility in the work of the Palestinian refugees, could go ahead and show way here, and take with it the international community through what we do here at home in Norway. But if there's another mechanism that we can launch, another way of working on, we'd like to discuss it. And then if you can get these things out using other people to launch it, there's nothing better than that for the Workers' Party. We're just looking to help in that peace process, and not operate with that kind of petty party crane.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e915	I'm not going to extend this debate in outlaws, but I'm just going to make it clear again that I think Thorbjørn Jagland is misunderstood. It is not a problem that a proposal comes from the Workers' Party. Nor is it a problem that a proposal is presented by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I just suggested that the type of work you choose must be proportionate to the result you want to achieve. If the wish is to achieve the widest possible cooperation, it may not be the best way to go public with a properly completed proposal and put it on the table. It is then possible that other working methods have greater opportunities to establish an agreement. My small remark about the Israeli working party was really just the coin of the relationship Thorbjørn Jagland himself took up in his main post. It is excellent to work through the socialist international. It is excellent that the Norwegian Labour Party cooperates with its sister party in Israel. But it is preferable to keep the roles under control. When Thorbjørn Jagland takes part in a meeting in the Socialist International, he does not act as the head of the Norwegian Foreign Committee. A fund to be adopted by the Norwegian National Assembly and to be officially signed — that is, by the Norwegian State — cannot relate to that type of cooperation. It's as it says: everything has its time and everything belongs in its context. One of the things that makes me, for my part, think this proposal was a bad flight idea, is that it is unclear at this point. The concept structure of folk funds itself is unclear and it is unclear how to interact with the parties to the Middle East conflict. I also allow myself to make the small remark – without me starting a new debate – that there is not much to suggest that the fact that the Israeli Labour Party has the Minister for Foreign Affairs means that it is the Israeli Labour Party that is a tone-setting in Israeli policy at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e926	Thorbjørn Jagland – for a line..
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e929	I know very well that I cannot act on behalf of Norway, the Stortinget or anyone else when I am at the meeting of the Socialist International, but it must be possible to give information to the Stortinget from this pulpit about what was actually going on there, without it leading to suspicion of a working party network or whatever it might be. It is not so stupid that Stortinget gets as much information as possible when handling a matter. This is not unclear. The decision should be that the Government could set up this fund, and then the Government could be in contact with the parties. It was just shaped like this, so that it could be a diplomatic tool that the government could use in such a situation that we now stand up in. If that's how the procedure is crazy, I would encourage the Right, the Other, the Government, to sit down and discuss this in another way. The problem is there haven't been so many other ideas, other than the exclusion of a supposedly working party network. If it is a problem that this party has made a proposal in Stortinget, you should have an obligation to come up with other ideas that could then be discussed in a completely different way, but I have not seen any hint of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e936	Inge Wohnung – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e939	I have not asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e946	It's not unusual that the person who gets a line corresponds to the line, but there's no need to answer the question. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e964	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e975	The public communication is the first of its kind on a total public transport offer. In this context, the Christian People's Party is committed to creating a good socio-economic collective offer. If you see the environmental benefits of using collective solutions, you have no choice. The higher the passenger base, the more profitable it is to bet on public transport. The environment and urban accessibility make it even more important to reduce car traffic, especially during rush hours. In many places we don't have room for any more private cars. We can no longer build ourselves out of the problems. Lower prices include: important to enable public transport to attract travellers who would otherwise use the private car. A good collective offer can reduce the need for road development in some places, as well as the need to reduce the number of cows and thus improve their accessibility. This should be a pleasure both for individuals and for business. It is therefore necessary to develop a collective offer that is dimensioned in order to be a real alternative to the use of private cars. This requires, inter alia: high frequency, good accessibility, punctuality and shorter travel time. In line with the Sem Declaration, in the period 2002-2005, the Government will increase public transport spending by DKK 1.5 to 2 billion. Particular attention shall be paid to the major cities, where increased government appropriations for public transport are to be combined with increased county and municipal spending on public transport and local measures to limit traffic by private car. The potential for improvement is high in public transport, both in terms of capacity, frequency, punctuality, comfort and service. Travellers must be assured that they will arrive at the scheduled time. The potential for public transport is very different in urban areas, agglomerations and districts. Transport policy needs different solutions for districts and urban areas. A good transport system in all parts of the country is essential to ensure value creation and well-being. This will be achieved by strengthening the road network in the districts and by further developing good and fast collective services internally in the regions and between parts of the country. It is therefore still necessary to strengthen road development efforts in rural areas. This includes ensuring the best possible provision of transport for the districts. Cooperation governance will therefore promote a transport policy that ensures good accessibility and efficient transport corridors for people and businesses across the country. The population of urban areas is growing faster than the general population. Population growth leads to increased environmental and climate problems related to urban transport. The role of public transport in future transport solutions will become even more important than today. In particular, we need to focus on strengthening public transport in urban areas. This will focus in particular on Oslo and Akershus, Drammen, Lower Glomma region, Grenland, Kristiansand, Nord-Jären, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. The size now shows the willingness to prioritize public transport to car use in major cities. This is a whole new give for the environment and transport in our urban areas. Without such increased bets in major cities, they would in a short time be at risk of being strangled in traffic, pollution, noise and demands for ever more roads in residential areas. In order to increase the share of public transport, it is necessary to turn transport away from passenger cars and over into collective means of transport. The promotion of collective means of transport is essential to increase the share of private car choice. A large proportion of public transport takes place by bus on the road, and increased accessibility for buses is therefore important. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Committee agrees that, in addition to collective fields, work is also being undertaken to give priority to collective means of transport, including: through active control of light signals. This has been meant by the Christian People's Party for a long time, and is pleased that the other parties are following. A government-funded school and student discount of 40 pst is now to be introduced. on a monthly card. The scheme shall be put into operation from 1 August of this year. The goal of the Christian People's Party is 50 pst. Discount. But to go from zero to 40 pst. Now is a dramatic improvement. The Christian People's Party is concerned about seeing how important young people and students are as users of public transport. This is about creating good environmental habits for the future. The appropriations for investments in railway infrastructure shall be increased in the years to come. Investments in railway infrastructure are given priority over the most busy routes. This is in line with the setting of the national transport plan for 2002–2011. This will focus efforts on the four main sections of Oslo–Stavanger, Oslo–Bergen, Oslo–Trondheim and Trondheim–Bodø, the intercity triangle around Oslo, i.e. Lillehammer-Skien-Halden, and the local routes around Oslo, Stavanger, Trondheim and Bergen. This will help to improve the quality of train provision on these routes. The NSB will have greater freedom to adapt the train offer to competing traffic. This concerns both the adaptation of stopping patterns, greater freedom of tariff and, where appropriate, other measures to strengthen the competitiveness of trains. Emphasis is placed on improved capacity and quality, as well as on completion of start-ups. In the first place, investment grants will be given priority in order to improve the quality of supply and reduce prices for students and students. And in the next round, the price reduction for other travellers will be met. It is important to increase grants to collective societies in order to improve the provision and maintenance of infrastructure. National objectives to increase the market share of public transport should be followed up by a more direct contribution by the State to the financing of local public transport. The division of responsibilities between the State and the counties should be continued and the majority of the local public transport should continue to be covered by the free income of the counties. It is important to provide the county councils with an incentive to invest in local public transport through performance-based grants. The grants to operators in the public transport sector should provide incentives for a better offer and an increase in the number of passengers. Such agreements shall provide incentives for cost and market efficiency and contribute to greater convergence of socio-economic and business-economic objectives. Companies must have financial incentives to implement socially viable measures. The starting point for such contracts must be to improve the situation of travellers. Public transport shall take a greater share of transport in major cities. At the same time, the growth of transport needs must be limited. More goods should be transferred to rail and boat. It is important to develop good environmental and socio-economic solutions for both individuals and businesses. The Christian People's Party believes that we politicians need to be better at finding good environmental solutions. This means, among other things: solutions that allow us to carry goods on trains and boats – in other words away from road transport. The government also wants to facilitate the creation of multiple express bus routes. The aim of this liberalisation is to facilitate an overall better route provision for the public. This will enable public transport to strengthen its position in competition with the private car. I would also recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1011	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1014	The Workers' Party supports the Government's alignment on increased bets on public transport in urban and urban areas. We share, of course, the Government's assessment that there is a need for a power cap to develop public transport so that one can use buses and trains in cities and the nearby areas more than one uses the private car. But if we're going to do that, it means that one has to increase the rights of public transport, and that's where the government party fails. For while we are talking here in Stortinget and saying that a more collective transport must now be used, decisions must be made – in the county council of Hordaland and others. – to increase public transport tariffs by 10 pst. from 1 July of this year. Obviously, people's politicians' confidence is weakened when they talk about what they want, but they don't make up money. My challenge to the government party, and between the Christian People's Party, is then: 25 pst. Price reduction promised the representative Lioness in the election campaign in Bergen last year. So the result is an increase of 10 pst. from July this year. If the government party had followed what the Labour Party is now proposing in the revised budget, one would have at least contributed to the collective effort in the big cities. But that doesn't make the government party -- not one contribution this year. It means increasing the rate of travel for people. Unfortunately, words and actions do not harmonize. And it's very sad, if you want an extra bet on public transport. My question to the case-speaker is, how should a thing be done to get people to use collective transport – when the bets are being increased? It is probably done in most cities and urban areas – because one is not willing to go in with money from the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1025	I have a great deal of understanding that there is impatience in the question of getting even more into collective services – not least in the area of the metropolitan problem. But there have been increased frames in the revised budget of the year. And so if we also look at what is the government's assumption, then in this four-year period, there has been a strengthening in this area of SEK 1.5 to 2 billion, in addition to what is in the national transport plan. This is especially channelled to the big city problem, because we see that this is where this effect can be of the greatest importance. At least we are working on a stepping-up plan, and I believe this is a good signal for those companies that want to improve the offer in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1034	There were no parties that promised more to public traffic in the election campaign than the Christian People's Party. I was standing six weeks on Karl Johan next to the Christian People's Party and Left. They were saying to the voters that only you are voting for us, we are going to reduce the prices of public transport by 25 pst. And I explained that we can't afford a price reduction now, because we have a lot of investment needs if we're going to be able to get a good enough collective offer. Yesterday I took the trouble of reading the party program to the Christian People's Party. It says that the prices of public transport are going down by 25 pst. So it wasn't just something they said at Karl Johan or in the election campaign – it says in the program as well. Furthermore, it states that they must ‘make more of freight traffic on maritime transport and rail’ and that they must ‘have a long-term railway investment to make the train a more competitive... alternative’. After the election, the Christian People's Party has helped to reduce railway appropriations by 600 million. kr in relation to the national transport plan. Public transport has become more expensive in Bergen. It has become more expensive in Oslo, and ever less goods are transported by rail. I heard the representative Holten here say that the investment on the railway, on public transport, should be in addition to the investment in the national transport plan. It is not possible for government parties to get into the form of an observation. So if you want to fix this and now, you're going to be allowed to do it. However, today's Christian People's Party will be voting against the SV's proposal for a long-term investment in the railways, on proposals for its own notification of freight traffic and on proposals that will increase the bet on public transport. I want to give you a chance to: can you join in supporting our proposals now, or will the Christian People's Party definitely be the party in Norway that lives with the greatest gap between what you said before the elections and what you do after the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1054	The President must point out that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1057	I fully understand the impatience of the representative Sørensen when it comes to investing even more in collective services. I have no problem agreeing to that. But that is, in fact, what is stated in the statement that the three parties have drawn up at Sem, namely the Sem declaration. The co-operation administration has wanted to put this in focus by raising €1.5 billion to €2 billion more for public transport. So until the question of the Christian People's Party has run from its promises. We recognize that we are in a cooperative government. We've been involved in this together with the other two parties, and we're fully committed to that. We believe that this is a clear signal that collective services should be given priority. With regard to the city from which Sørensen's representative comes, we've already said that Oslo is going to have an extra promise in a collective context. So I mean we're on the right track. We have not achieved the objectives, but we have started a very positive process in relation to good collective solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1066	There's not much help in understanding skepticism if there's no more money. And what is now my challenge to the representative Holten is: Can he promise that they will not continue the practice of promising more than others and keeping less?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1072	I expect the representative, Mr Starrfelt, to be aware that it is not possible at this stage to carry out a budgetary procedure. It shall be carried out at a later date. In this regard, it is agreed in the Government, as mentioned earlier, that we should invest in collective services in the area covered by the Sem Declaration. The budget procedure will come at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1077	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1080	We are many who have looked forward to a continuous debate in the Storting on public transport. It is an important debate, mainly because the situation in and around the big cities has become serious in terms of the environment and traffic. That is why a debate today is more an expression of our understanding that solutions need to be found than a question of environmental morality. Many have believed over the years that it would be possible to build on the problems. History has taught us that that is not possible. Over the past 30 years, we have received different reports and different plans to show us the way, but little has been achieved. We can't reset the carms. The ban alone is no way to go. It just ends in some kind of environmental talibanism. In order to find solutions, we need to look for a model that can create a balance between private cars and collective traffic solutions. The metropolitan areas are in a serious situation. Diseases caused by poor air are increasing. Housing environments are degraded by pollution and noise. We've come to where promises don't go. Action is required. Norway is currently at the bottom of the European context with regard to public subsidies to public transport. In Oslo, the public covers 31 pst. of the costs. In Bergen, the level is 8 pst. The average for the largest European cities is 49 pst. The consequences of this systematic decline in public transport are that passenger travel costs have become increasingly high, and the quality of transport and transport equipment has deteriorated. In other words, today’s description of Norway in terms of public transport is not exactly a show album. Therefore, many have had great expectations for the Government's collective announcement, and for good reason. In the election campaign, the government parties were high on the track and promised gold and green forests for public transport. Money wasn't the problem. The only thing that stood in the way of realizing the promises was the Stoltenberg government. Has the Bondevik Government's collective message been the answer to the promises? I'm sorry! And I'm sorry. For those voters who had hopes of the promises, the message must be a contribution to reflection. They heard many great words and today see little will for action. It's not a small breach of promise we're witnessing. Of course, the government parties will continue to try to produce it in a different way. But reality is hard to get past. The Workers' Party has always considered that it is important to follow up the commitments to bet on public transport. We have therefore proposed in the draft revised budget to increase public transport appropriations by 65 million. kr. Our proposal would have given 50 million. kr more for the big cities and 15 mill. kr to be able to restore the student discount on the NSB, the fast route and the Nord-Norbussen from 1 August this year. The government parties reject this, and instead choose to cooperate with the Progress Party, which means that selected owners of cars will receive a tax return of 400 million. kr. It's hard to see that this is a bet on public transport. The government parties promised in the Sem Declaration to increase the contribution to public transport by DKK 1.5 to 2 billion. The leader of the left, Lars Sponheim, elaborated the proposal as follows: ‘We’re adding up to a large-scale public transport effort of between 1.5 and 2 billion. crowns in height.» So the promise was to raise the appropriations from NOK 12 billion to NOK 13.5 billion or NOK 14 billion. It was last autumn. We have asked the Minister for Transport to make the promise concrete. The result has been that the extra bet will be made in the period up to 2005 but then as an accumulated amount. Sponheim's promise is reduced by $1.5 billion per pen. years. During the last election campaign, the current government parties flagged high their promises of school and student discounts on local collective trips. The government of Stoltenberg was almost characterised as greedy in its proposal. The end of that story was that the Workers' Party supported the proposal that the discount should be 50 pst., while the Bondevik government ended its promises by 40 pst. And yet the story doesn't end there. A commitment to a discount scheme may be accepted only if the financial contributions cover the costs. There's a lot of uncertainty about the government taking it into account. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have in their comments on St.prp. No 60 for 2001-2002 said: ‘These members assume that the Government has thereby ensured satisfactory funding so that the discount scheme can be introduced from 1 August 2002 without the scheme entailing higher prices or lower offers for other road users.’;» Now the signals from the counties have arrived. Both Oslo and Akershus are hesitating to implement the scheme because of lack of money, and because they themselves cannot afford to cover the deficit. The Transport Agency in Oslo, Hilde Barstad, says to the Evening Post: ‘It may not be such that the Government introduces measures and then entrusts them to the county councils to finance them. If the Government decides to introduce such measures, they must pay for it.» I assume that the Council of State will give us an answer today that this will be cleaned up, and that the discount scheme for students and students will become a reality from 1 August. Moreover, it is the Workers' Party's opinion that we should propose that the discount be 50 p.m. from 1 January 2003. A separate transport plan for the Groruddalen is now being worked on. It is provided that this plan is the basis for increasing public transport in this valley. The Labour Party will support this work. The Grorud Valley is one of the most polluted areas in the country and requires massive efforts. The need for investment is the size of what was done in the project Umweltbyen Old Oslo. There are 120 000 people living in the area and transit traffic is 156 000 cars per day. The collective share varies, while at the same time the potential is large. I can mention the interconnection of the T-railways in the area, the extension of the T-railway to Lørenskog, the combi-railway, more frequent take-offs, more bus lines as well as traffic-restricting measures. The Groruddalen needs a transport plan, but it also needs a package of measures. This package of measures could be a shattering layer between State, municipality and road users. I assume that proposals for such a package of measures will be submitted to the Stortinget, and we have made proposals to that effect. The Workers' Party has been in favour of proposing the introduction of amended responsibilities sharing schemes for urban public transport. We believe that, in the long term, cities and urban areas should themselves have the means to manage public transport and receive state subsidies directly. A bet on the Groruddalen must be seen as part of the bet on Oslo Sporveier. Oslo Sporveier is the backbone of public transport in Oslo, and I see it as crucial that the state also participates in taking responsibility for the fact that the company will continue to maintain its position in the future. It will require a far more offensive bet than the Government adds. The government parties also warn here, in this message, their continued belief that public transport offers are the gateway to good life. It's like money is growing out of tenders. Let me repeat what the Labour Party has said many times: we are not against competition, but we are against the fact that it is the employees who are to be the balancing item of the tender system. Everyone in the public sector determines that the efficiency potential of the operation has been achieved. The only savings object currently in existence is employees' wages and social rights. It is unacceptable for us that the security of employment and pension rights should be lost for the employees in the event of a tender. Therefore, we require a transfer of tenders to be considered as an activity transfer. The NSB and the Railway Agency have announced a serious future if the bet does not increase significantly. No later than today in the newspaper there was a suggestion about this. Together with the Railway Agency, the NSB has described a need for investment of DKK 8 billion in addition to that foreseen in the National Transport Plan. The government doesn't seem to want to take these warnings seriously. We in the Workers' Party say that we are willing to look at the necessary efforts to prevent the NSB as a system from becoming confused. Despite our remarks on the Government's proposal for extra effort on public transport by SEK 1.5 to 2 billion, we will support the proposal. We assume that the bet is in addition to the planning frameworks foreseen in the national transport plan. But I want to repeat what I said earlier: the government's proposal is puzzled and gives little news about a real bet on public transport. It's sad with broken election vows, but that's what we're witnessing today. I include the proposals from the Workers' Party included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1144	Bjørgov Froyn has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1149	The representative Froyn hassles about the discount to school and students and avoids skillful mentioning that the last government Stoltenberg was on the move in that area, they put in money equal to 15 p.m. Discount. Let's go that it's not always as good, as we've seen in the paper as well, to calculate exactly the sum, but there's a pretty big gap between 15 pst. and 50 pst. It might have been interesting to ask Froyn if it's the usual working party we're seeing now, which is different in opposition than what they're in position. Then I will mention what the Workers' Party takes up in the setting of the Railway Works. That's a pretty neat remark. They point out that the NSB has said that railway infrastructure should receive a grant of DKK 8 billion in the coming years. The Labour Party has said that they will assess. What does it mean to evaluate? It could be interesting to get it clear, because otherwise it'll just be words. That's what the Workers' Party is accusing the government parties that we're not clear enough to attach as difficult sizes as we're talking about here. But even they avoid it skillfully. They're talking about $8 billion, but they're saying they're going to evaluate it. What does it mean to evaluate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1156	I am absolutely convinced that the representative of Kjästad agrees that we are not in a budgetary procedure, so it would be pointless if we were to take the step of giving advance guarantees on amounts to be seen in a broader context. However, consider in this context – to emphasise it – a clear warning that we have taken the NSB and the Railway Agency seriously. We want to take inwards that the investment on the railway is a necessary bet to ensure that the operation can be satisfactory. I would like to remind you that the experience from England is so serious and can be summed up in the following: it is bad policy to fund too badly for railway operations. It is bad policy to privatise economically weak railway companies. It is good policy, no matter who is the operator, to give the railway the most money possible to have the best possible operational quality. And then I think it's going to be completely absurd to discuss the story. The fact is that last year the Workers' Party voted for a 50 pst discount scheme for pupils and students. That's the fact. That is what we are standing by, and that is why we will also be promoting that proposal in the 2003 budget. Now we are in favour of what is the Government's system, but we take seriously that the signals come that the funding itself is too bad for it. It is responsible for the promises, as opposed to what we have experienced in a previous line change, that the Christian People's Party has actively advocated a reduction in the ticket price of 25 p.m., but is left in Bergen with an increase of 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1163	I think there are a few things that pickers react more instinctively to than when you argue about who has been the least and worst in terms of public transport in the last 15 years. In the election campaign I had the pleasure to attend meetings with both Hans R. Kjästad and Bjørgov Froyn. And in humility toward our voters, we could jointly say that we haven't done enough for the public transport. I even heard Kjästad say that the Right has not done enough for public transport. And Bjørgov Froyn said that the Workers' Party has not done enough for public transport, either in Oslo or in the rest of the country. That attitude, the recognition that it is the sum of what has been achieved in this room so far, I think Froyn was inside at the beginning of his post. I think it's important to clarify and repeat: the sum of what a total of this has gotten to the last 15 years is too bad. And then we can take the dirty laundry afterwards and see how many pickers we win at it. I'd like to say to Froyn that I think the Workers' Party has had a bad collective policy in the last 15 years. I can say that. But I can also join in saying that if you show new tactics, we are the first to applaud and praise it. I think we have to try to show some greatness and refrain from things that just lead to the voters just getting more contempt for us who are chosen for this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1172	As a normal person, I am weak in praise, so I thank the representative Sørensen for the care she shows me. This may last for days. Well, we need more than words, we need action. Summarized back in time, many people are responsible. I was very busy in my post to limit myself to environmental morality and to limit myself to environmental talibanism. I still do. But I am concerned about creating opportunities for the widest possible consensus that we can achieve something in public transport, not because public transport is fun, but because we have to develop it in the best possible way. And so I can't push myself, but I have to draw the attention of the representative Sørensen to the fact that there has been an urban council collaboration between the Workers' Party and SV in Oslo for six years. And at least six of the 15 years we're going to have to take a joint responsibility for. We didn't go there either, but we've tried. We've had budgetary agreement on different issues, and we're still going to try to do that. And for public transport, we hope that it contributes to results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1181	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1184	For friends of collective means of transport as well as for champions of healthy transport economy, the Government's collective report is a fresh breath and represents a new section – I would argue – in Norwegian transport policy. With increased internationalisation and division of labour, transport is increasing. We travel more, and motorized transport of people and goods increases. It is a development that opens up new opportunities but creates new problems. In particular, where transport is high and people live closely, transport is required to be organised rationally. All the components of the resources involved in the development of the transport service must be weighed in the balance. In this picture, it is obvious that collective transport has functions in large cities other than those in less populated areas. In the countryside, collective services are primarily offered to schoolchildren and groups that do not have a car. In cities, collective provision is more than a social measure. In cities like Oslo, the collective offer is likely to represent a business-economically profitable enterprise. It assumes that land costs, transport costs, health costs and environmental costs are priced at market prices. In the largest cities, we often find a competitive relationship between private cars and public transport. It is up to local authorities to decide on the conditions under which collective and private means of transport are to function together. It is a goal of the Government to increase the collective share in the largest cities, because it is undoubtedly socio-economically correct. It improves the use of urban planners' resources. Less car use facilitates the transport of business – a rather immaterial factor in the creation of value added. And value creation is right very busy! The active substance debate: how to achieve a twist towards higher collective participation can often merit the label ‘Flammable’ as easily flammable as that debate can often be. But the government wants to rely on a lot of carrots and little whip in the work of strengthening public transport. It must be up to local authorities to decide on the use of the instrument. It is where traffic load assessments and varying degrees of remedial measures belong. For example, Oslopackak 1 was an agreement between state and local authorities, among them the City Council of the Right in Oslo, on both road and public transport bombs. The Right-Handled Bærum has set foot for the development of Fornebu before the adoption of a satisfactory collective offer. The public communication states that parking policies and traffic regulation measures should be adopted locally. Outside the largest cities, i.e. in most parts of Norway, the car will be the most economical and environmentally and land efficient means of transport. The right considers, therefore, that the need for greater collective participation in our very largest cities does not stem from the fact that the car remains the main nerve in Norwegian transport. Our housing pattern had been unimaginable without a private car and a truck. The Bondevik government has been at the forefront of environmental policy among Norwegian governments. Agreed or disagreed in politics – I think most people will agree that we have hardly ever had such an intense and so persistent environmental debate in such a short time. This is St.meld. No 26 and St.meld. No 23, Better environment in cities and agglomerations, are important examples of this. One of the most fundamental elements of environmental policy is interesting in the collective communication, namely land policy. The Government proposes to coordinate land and transport plans across administrative levels. The physical location of human functions such as housing, work and leisure in relation to each other affects the need for transport work, for energy consumption and for resource use in general. Oslo Høre’s strategy for concentrated urban development — where Oslomarka is protected from development, and growth focuses on better use of existing land — is an example of this. The optimal use of current public transport, traffic years and other infrastructure is then achieved. It means better resource management and better environment. Transport today seizes 25 p.m. of the area of the Oslo construction zone. There is therefore every possible reason to assess the use of land resources. This year the public grants approx. NOK 11.5 billion for public transport, of which 4.3 billion is used for railway infrastructure. Over the period 2002–2005, the Government will increase its investment by a further DKK 1.5–2 billion. 25 pst. of this bet shall go to the T-Bahn in Oslo. About half of all collective trips in the country take place in Oslo. School and student discounts will also be introduced on credit cards of 40 pst. Even with as much money as we're talking about here, I guess we could all want more. However, as important as additional appropriations, there is an efficiency programme that the notification announces. The notification is an innovative management tool in this area that describes the organisation and principles for the development of public transport. Result measurement is important. The government will introduce an incentive-based state funding scheme that rewards the county of County for the degree of distortion from car to public transport. It is an exciting system that can certainly be developed further after its introduction in 2004 at the latest. A researcher at TØI dealing with performance-dependent contracts designates the system as a frontier explosive. It is essential to develop forms of competitive exposure, so that the most effective actors are selected. Two types of efficiency systems should develop in parallel. The tender model provides the cheapest transport for those who are able to operate certain routes, in accordance with certain quality criteria. The quality contract model brings financial benefits to the passenger receiving most passengers within a defined area. At the same time, the carrier has great freedom in terms of prices and routes. There is every reason to pay tribute to the Government for presenting innovations that can help ensure quality and the best possible public transport for money. The express buses have evolved into a success concept, and the Government proposes to further liberalise concession access. It is important to assess this in the light of the strategy of the Public Communication on Railways. We spend 4.3 billion kroner on railway infrastructure this year, and we buy NSB services for about 1.3 billion kroner. It is an expensive but fascinating means of transport that will still have an important place in Norwegian transport. On the right, the Government supports the willingness of the Government to concentrate the railway on the areas where it can compete most and most environmentally soundly and mitigate traffic pressures in densely populated areas. This means that increased bets should be made on main track sections and the intercity triangle. Here, too, the government is going to outsource some track sections, like we do with highways where today's grants are more than $1 billion. I am afraid that our good government partners will be angry at me if I say that the Right has been an almost annoying steadfast driver for efficiency solutions as outlined above. If I try again to make the Right as the exponent for more public transport for the money, they might become even more sinister. That's why I don't mention it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1222	I must almost ask for a very clear response from the representative Kjästad on whether it is such that he does not believe in what I quoted from his party colleague in Oslo, Hilde Barstad, that the student discount is not financed by the grants it is now charged by the state. Is Kjestad of the opinion that they have had more than enough money? The second is that Kjästad in the election campaign was a very clear public transport figure for the Right. He wanted a lot, and that led us to experience on different occasions that we wanted a lot together. I feel that Kjestad has left behind, and now something completely different will happen. But to get back to this community that was in its time, I have to ask the question: can we count on the fact that the Right is clearly up and showing partial responsibility in terms of the subsidy requirement of NOK 5 billion?Spurway needs until 2015 to guarantee that we get qualified operations in Oslo, in addition to the SEK 500 million. kr that is now granted until 2005 – no one says no to them, but we all know that this is just a small part of what is actually needed? Will the representative Kjästad be in this positive position to ensure that Oslo Sporveier becomes such a company we want it to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1229	Yes, I would very much like to be in on that. I believe that the government has also shown that it is willing to invest in public transport in the cities. Oslo gets 25 pst. of this additional bet for its T-rail operation. Of course, I'm not happy as Oslo's representative, I want 100 pst, or at least 90 pst. Of course I do. But then there are some other representatives around this room who are not from Oslo, and then Froyn will probably understand that they will have a different impact on this particular side of the case, exactly as my colleagues in my party would have. I think we both have some adjustments to make to get ashore. But we're going to be involved in making public transport better and more competitive, not least competitive – for this is not only a matter of money, but also of ways of getting more public transport out of every single penny. The department is looking at what's going on at student discounts in Oslo. We're going to deal with that, and we want to fix that. The percentage of 40 that we've proposed, ECON has found that it requires more grants than what we've given. It wants this government to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1236	In the Sem Declaration, the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left took the necessary action to strengthen public transport. It says: «The Board of Cooperation will transfer the grant to a collective effort from the county council framework transfers to the Ministry of Transport budget.» Today, funds for the operation of public transport are allocated over the framework of the county, while investment funds are allocated over the budget of the Ministry of Transport. This creates many organisational and inappropriate solutions, and at least it does not lead to optimum use of resources. Two researchers from Bergen, Osland and Kråkenes, have written about this: ‘The established organisational structure’ — in the transport sector — ‘is appropriate if a further increase in passenger car use in larger urban areas is desired, while at the same time it considers it appropriate that no one should be held responsible for this development’. My question to Kjästad is: why will the Right not follow up on what is sensible in the Sem Declaration on the reorganisation of public transport? SV has promoted what was said in the Sem Declaration as a proposal in Stortinget today, and we shall vote against it. Are we going to have to experience that it is only SV that supports the Sem declaration when we are going to vote on this later today? Could I be allowed to ask Hans Kjästad and the rest of the government coalition to think about one more time, so that today we can get to a historically correct grip, in line with the Sem Declaration for a better and more efficient and cost-effective organisation of public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1255	Let me admit that the question was not quite unexpected. It's true what Heidi Sørensen says about the Sem statement, and it's probably no big secret that we have relatively similar views on some of the issues that the representative Sørensen raised. Not jenking is a luxury that some parties can avoid who themselves do not live in a coalition of governments. There's no secret, all the voters and all the representatives in this room know that when you work together in a coalition, that means you have to get a little girl -- sometimes you win, and sometimes you lose. The right is very satisfied with what we've achieved in this coalition of governments, we have excellent cooperation, we lose a little bit and we win a little bit. It's always going to be like that. The same will be true of the Christian People's Party, the same will be felt by the Left. It is, as I said, a luxury some parties have that have not themselves been in or are in a coalition, to say, your program requires that we fulfill 100 pst. That's not the reality of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1262	Let me just first say that I'm more than willing to escape Hans Kjästad to experience the luxury it is not to sit in government – so that's said. I made two lines for the government fraction today. One went to the Christian People's Party, relative to the means and size of the bet, and the other to the Right, about the organization. They answer as they usually do. The Christian People's Party answers: Yes, but we are in a coalition – it must be with the Right, that. And the right answer: Yes, but we are in a coalition – yes, it must be with the Christian People's Party. And of that I can draw the somewhat boring conclusion that if they had only agreed the opposite way – if the Right could have won the organization, and the Christian People's Party could have won the money – then we would have got a raise for the public transport. In connection with this big message, exactly the opposite has happened: Right and His Kjästad have been the proponents for us not to spend too much money, and then the Christian People's Party has made sure that we have got an organization that does not mean a promise for public transport. So the two good points in the Sem statement, the reorganization and the bet, they've negotiated, and I think that's boring. But the proposals have been made. It is still possible to stand on the Sem declaration when we come to voting today. And if we had to use the afternoon hours to think about it carefully so we're going to clean this up, so you don't get double negative out of what you promised when you sat at Sem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1271	I will repeat: of course, as an Oslo politician and as a transport politician, I am very dissatisfied with how much money we have at our disposal. There are no members of the Committee on Transport who would particularly disagree with me in that. But then there are some other sectors of society that need to have their share, and then we have as an overall goal – and of course we have been running on as a Right Policy constantly – that there should not be so much public spending that people completely lose the incentive to use their savings to invest in their children's future, or lose the incentive to work hard, for both of these factors we need to build Future Norway. That's why we can't say as SV that we're just spending even more money on all sectors, because then we believe that what's at the very bottom of the value creation is falling out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1276	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1279	The Progress Party is concerned about public transport in terms of noise and emissions to air in cities and agglomerations. While passenger cars over 30 years have become quieter and less energy consuming, buses, trains and other rail transport have become bleak in noise and diesel exhaust. It is worth noting that a bus according to Oslo Sporvejer’s 2000 annual report uses an average of three litres of diesel per year. miles, i.e. five to six times as much as a passenger car. The most busy routes are already developed with collective transport services, and an extension of this will have to be done on routes and times where the passenger base is smaller. I think an extended use of buses with five to ten passengers each, perhaps less, represents no environmental benefit in this way, perhaps rather on the contrary. The Progress Party notes that passenger cars will soon be virtually free of emission problems and very low noise. This, along with the fact that most people prefer to use a car for most private transport operations, makes it clear that the Progress Party does not see any reason to try to limit the use of cars, either inside or outside densely constructed roads. Instead, the driving party will make it easier to use a car and will work for the further development of road installations and parking capacity even in built-up areas. This is in line with practice in most other countries. The Progress Party will show that the public annual allocation for public transport is close to DKK 11.5 billion. We believe that this is primarily due to the almost total absence of competition between transport companies. This is a situation in which the public, either through county councils or state, has developed monopolistic states. This has been done by the exclusive right of bus and coach companies to transport, or as at the time of the NSB, which has until now had a monopoly on the transport of passengers on the network. The Progress Party is convinced that if the public had used competition as an instrument, the offer would be better and the costs for the public and the traveller would be much lower. The Progress Party therefore believes that the Government will use competition to a far greater extent as a means of achieving price reductions and promoting a better offer. Freedom of establishment and competition for bus companies will be a step in the right direction and competition will be introduced on the rail system. In our opinion, it is not a problem that traffic by passenger cars has increased in and around cities, it is rather a problem that the public has not provided a road system that has been dimensioned to accept this traffic, and that there have not been enough parking spaces established. The Progress Party will show that the population of urban areas is growing faster than the overall population growth. Due to the lack of road development over many years, this now leads to increased environmental and congestion problems related to urban transport. Due to the failure of collective policies that have been pursued for several years, including: total absence of competition in public passenger transport has now raised the challenges. It will therefore become even more important in the future to provide more money for road development and to facilitate more competition between transport companies. It is strange to note that railway and tramway noise has been mentioned to a small extent, while positive aspects of other emissions are credited to this mode of transport. The Party considers that rail and tramways are inefficient modes of transport, both in terms of costs and flexibility. We agree that strict exhaust gas requirements are to be imposed on buses, but demand the same noise requirements for tracks and railways. The Progress Party agrees with the Government that measures need to be put in place to achieve high frequency, good accessibility, punctuality and shorter travel time, but is disappointed that the Government will continue to pursue a policy that effectively preserves the monopoly of the traffic companies. An important step towards the removal of this monopoly would be to remove the need tests and concessions for bus operations. An important objective for the Progress Party has long been to reduce the distance costs for districts, and we have therefore proposed, over several years, to significantly reduce the petrol and diesel tax. The Progress Party has also proposed a significant increase in road construction appropriations. This would benefit people both in District Norway and in larger centres, and would be a significant contributor to reducing the distance costs. Greater funding for racial protection has been important for the Progress Party, without having received a majority on the Stortinget – even though the Council of State for some time returned in an answer to the signatories in the Questionnaire highlighted that racial protection was an important area for the Government. Competition in ferries has been absent for many years. Following the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties in the autumn of 2001 for the financial year 2002, there is now open to competition for ferry services, and the Spring Party hopes that the Government will facilitate a comprehensive principle for all ferries to be tendered in order to improve prices and service. The express buses have also been countered for a long time by the majority in Stortinget, among others. with constant cuts in the return of parts of the paid diesel charge. This has led to more expensive tickets. The background for this has been the threat of competition from the express buses to the railways. In other words, the public has put obstacles in the way of competition, which has led to lower collective provision for the population. The Party considers it important to facilitate the safe movement of cyclists in traffic. It is important for the Progress Party to facilitate the reduction of the risk of accidents for those wishing to use bicycles and the establishment of a coherent network of bicycle roads and fields in all cities and agglomerations. The Progress Party believes that it is not primarily more money for collective action that is urgent, but a system change. It is primarily the absence of competition that leads to a high level of costs. Lack of competition leads to high fares, high subsidy rates, low punctuality and poor service. It is therefore disappointing that the Government has not taken these things through its proposal to the Stortinget on the law on professional transport by motor vehicle and vessel through Ot.prp. No 74, as inter alia deals with needs-tested passenger rights. The Progress Party believes it is a public task to build a road system that tackles the traffic being established. Transport of goods should take the most cost-effective roads, regardless of whether it is road, rail or sea transport. The Party considers that measures such as the removal of traffic from roads in the light of road accidents are a misguided policy when road accidents occur due to poor roads. In our view, the solution should be a strong investment growth, so that road areas that are dangerous to traffic are developed. Furthermore, the Progress Party supports the Committee's recommendation to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1317	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1320	Collective solutions are not a hobby issue. It's a question of what we need to do to find solutions to the situation especially in cities and around cities, to make them available for different activities. To make that clear, I have to ask the representative Ørsal Johansen from the Progress Party: does not worry about, for example, the Advance Party. The bus companies in Hønefoss do not see the possibility to expand the bus offer, due to the inability in Oslo? The Party of Progress may be the party most clearly expressing the fact that there are significant sums to tender for the various activities of the industry. Does the Progress Party consider that it is employees' employment and salary agreements that are to be a balancing item in the event of a call for tenders, or will the Progress Party, regardless of its attitude towards tenders as a system, assist in ensuring that employees retain their rights by making a transfer of tenders for the transfer of activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1327	In my post I was in favour of an extension of road – that we should grant more money for road development. I assume that investment on the road network will also benefit the collective network, including the bus companies in Hönefoss, to which the representative Froyn referred. In the case of a tendering principle, the remuneration and working conditions of employees are determined by agreements. And it's clear that the Progress Party is also concerned that the employees of the companies should have their rights, of course. But what is at least equally important is that users of the collective offer have a good service, a good offer and reasonable prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1335	The representative from the Progress Party started his post by worrying about the air pollution and the noise problems associated with the bus, and then he finished his post by saying that we have to build several roads so that we get more buses into the Oslo Centre! Can he explain to me how it's related to the air pollution situation in Oslo Centre, if we're going to lay down the Gjøvik Railway or get down sections around that way that we get more bus into the Oslo Centre? Will there be better air or worse air in Oslo center of it? And then I register that it's just road development that matters. I do not know if one can inform the representative of the Progress Party that if one were to replace the T-Bahn from Majorstua to Greenland by one road, it had to have twelve fields! Is there such solutions to the Progress Party when you are notoriously always voting down things that go to public transport, that we should get twelve-field roads across Oslo, or can the Progress Party in some areas also agree that what goes on track is actually effective both in terms of air pollution and in areas where there is little space?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1342	The party of progress is not a resistor of public transport, of course we are not. We want a good collective offer, in line with all the other parties, but we also want to use a competition principle. This also applies to rail and tram, where we want competition where several companies can join and participate in tenders, in order to obtain a reasonable price level. Of course, when it comes to the development of roads, we're dependent on the railways. And I'm not a fan of putting down e.g. The Gjøvik track – it was just supposed to be missing! The Gjøvik track has its mission, but then the Gjøvik track must also be upgraded to a level that allows users to be willing to use it. For as it is today, with the monopoly we have in rail operations, it will not be invested, nor will it be the use that we want it to be. By allowing others to access the railway network, the Progress Party believes that the offer will be improved and that the passengers will again start using it. We saw what happened when we gave some extra kroner to the Gjøvik track to improve the equipment, and the number of passengers also increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1349	There can be no doubt – despite what the representative Ørsal Johansen now said about the fact that the Progress Party was not against public transport – that there is a main dividing line in this Chamber with regard to the debate around this, and what has been written in the comments in connection with the Collective Notice, between the Progress Party and the other parties. It is underlined in several notes that the Progress Party will have a significant reduction in funds, among other things. to the railway. I also refer to the budgetary debates we have had in the past. As pointed out by the SV representative, it is striking that one is concerned about pollution from public transport, but not about the pollution problem with the countless cars that one had to have inside this city if we had not had a functioning public transport service. I want to ask the representative Ørsal Johansen: no matter how many parking spaces you build in Oslo, where are all these cars going to fit? This suggests that the policy of the Progress Party in this area is in line with the practice of most other countries. Then I would like to ask: which other countries in Europe are now making it easier for more car traffic in densely built roads? Isn't that the true opposite that's now going on? So finally, in the case of goods going from road to sea and track, the Progress Party says that here it's going to be allowed to float, you have to choose the most cost-effective solution. The Committee visited Austria. Today we are running on quotas with our trailers through Austria. In the near future there will be a heavy environmental tax. What are our trailers going to do on the border of Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1362	The undersigned has never said that we do not want public transport. I think I've emphasized many enough times now. What is important is that we want public transport where it makes sense to have public transport, namely in densely populated areas. We have not said that we want to reduce public transport, or give less to public transport in the densely built strata. What we're saying is that there must be competition, so that we get down the appropriations, so that the offer is improved, so that the service is improved for the passengers. What our trailers should do when it's chargeable to drive into Austria, it doesn't, to be honest, know the Progress Party. It must then be up to those who drive trailers to find out whether it is profitable to drive through Austria or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1379	Today, the Stortinget shall adopt the first collective notification of Norway's history. It's a shame to say that, initially, but it's a message where the public transport is eaten with beautiful words, buttons and gloss pictures. It's only been nine months since the election, and for us who are hot followers of the public transport, I have to say that today it feels like it's been a long time. The six weeks on Karl Johan's Gate, with the Christian People's Party on one side and the Left on the other side, who promised 25 pst. reducing tariffs in public transport has made an indelible impression. I stood and defended as well as I could that we could not offer cheaper public transport, because in the next few years we had such a huge investment promise in front of us. This is about Oslo Sporweger, and it's about the routes around Oslo. But I have to admit that many voters had difficulty understanding that we couldn't get to both, and then they went to the Christian People's Party, which promised minus 25 pst., and to the Left, who promised the same thing. Both parties very much agreed with us that we also had to get to these large, heavy investments in the period. You can then in retrospect wonder who the voters were most proud of. What we can at least record is that the Christian People's Party and the Left became government parties. The first thing that happened after the election was that the promise of 25 pst. cheaper public transport was abolished. In Oslo, the City Council, consisting of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, has twice proposed price increases. Then came the public release in April – the first of Norway's history. Now the election vows were to be realized. The government intends to increase the investment in public transport by SEK 1.5 – 2 billion, as stated in the Sem Declaration. And when I read the Sem statement, I was quite happy, because I thought it sounded good, it wasn't so bad. It was, of course, much less than we wanted, but it was, after all, NOK 1.5 – 2 billion. I read the Sem Declaration in the following way: When the period was over, in 2005, the appropriations for public transport would be approx. 2 billion DKK higher than in 2001. But then I read the collective message, and then I registered that that's not how you rain. The annual increases are added together, and it can be seen that with the investment described, the appropriations for public transport in 2005 will be only half a billion higher than in 2001. It was disappointing. In comparison, in 2000, all the parties in Stortinget, except SV, decided to reduce their petrol taxes. That decision alone resulted in a loss of revenue for the state of NOK 3 billion. If you want to count in the same way as the government does in the collective text message when you describe the investment in public transport, it is a bet on the private car in the period – hold on – DKK 12 billion. To this end, public transport is fed with buttons and glossy images. In addition, the Government in its budget has reduced investments to rail by 600 million. kr, compared to what the majority of Stortinget promised in connection with the national transport plan, which was treated for approx. a year ago. So that was before the election. The government takes with one hand and gives with the other, and unfortunately it is in this context that it is taken more than it is given. The net result of this round is that the Stortinget will promise less for public transport in 2002 than was promised in 2001. This is most dramatic for the railway. The railway has received a voter treatment in the message. The railway works and the NSB, prior to this message, put forward a good piece of craft in the form of scenarios that tried to clarify the road choices ahead of the Stortinget in the case of railway investment in Norway. They drew three visions of the future for us. One was the weather strategy. There, the level of investment we have today continued, the money smeared thinly, and everything became evenly poor. The second strategy was the remediation strategy. The level of investment continued to be the same as today, but efforts in the intercity field were concentrated. Then the train to Bergen had to take a take-off, the same was true for the train to Trondheim, and you had to make several routes. The third option was the investment strategy. It requires investment into the railway, which is DKK 8 billion more than what is in the national transport plan. It's a scenario where the railway's advantage is put on, so we can get a good rail offer. In the collective communication, the Government has not dealt with this work. If I'm going to tip from what's written there, I guess the government's priorities and the level of bet have to lie somewhere in the middle of reorganization and confusion. We have chosen to base our further work on the railway. This means that we can get a growth in train traffic of almost 50 pst. the next ten years. It may subtract equivalent pollution from Norwegian roads. We know that there are scarce railway investments. We know that there is little money. That's why we've also gone in and formed a majority with the government parties to look at alternative forms of investment for the railways. In a previous line exchange, I have indicated that the Government failed in relation to the Sem statement, even when it was about the organisation. I just want to repeat that I'm disappointed in it. It would have been very important for public transport if we could have got this together and seen operations and investments as a whole. But it didn't. Yesterday, the Committee on Energy and the Environment gave its opinion on the Climate Change Communication. The Communication on the Transport Sector states that a transport policy should be pursued in Norway which effectively contributes to reducing emissions from the sector. Furthermore, the Climate Communication refers to the notification of public transport. In the collective communication, there is one sentence to this effect, and then the environmental objectives are referred to in the Urban Environment Communication. I went in and read in the urban environment message, turned up in the climate there, and there they show hunting for the climate message! That means take the ring and let it wander. We played that when we were children, and it has been done with the climate emissions from the transport sector. Therefore, we have proposed that the Government come back with an action plan to achieve the ambitious target set in the Climate Change Communication, that transport policy should effectively contribute to reducing climate change emissions. In the case of air pollution: We sometimes experience in Oslo an air pollution that causes young people with asthma to be kept in prison. If we don't get a bigger stake in public transport, we're drowning in air pollution. Nevertheless, I experience almost the two most bourgeois parties as frenetic opponents of all measures to reduce car use in the big cities. If I'm allowed, I want to ask the committee leader, Petter Løvik, whether he thinks it's okay that we lock our kids in when it's at worst in winter, or maybe he can consider sometimes locking in a couple of cars instead. I'm going to use the last minute to stress that we support what's good in this message. The most exciting government is included in this communication is the new funding mechanism, the incentive-based one. We support it, and we have expectations of it. I hope that as early as next year, the collective organisations will be able to get some funding for this, so that there will be a lot to trigger when the scheme is to be implemented in 2004. I miss some clear goals. I support the main approach, that we must have a transport policy for cities and a transport policy for the districts, but we must say something about what it means when the urban environmental message states that public transport should be the backbone of the urban transport system. What does that mean? We have said that public transport should then take at least 40 pst. by travellers. It could be a goal we could get together about. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that SV is dealing with alone in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1411	Heidi Sørensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1416	I want a more radical SV. SV says that the door that says “more money” is closed. A radical party will then find out that one should try to knock on other doors, try other possibilities and take new action. That's not SV. I think it was very funny that the SV's representative took on incentives-based subsidies. It's fine. She did not spend much time on it, but also offers and quality contracts are exciting elements that will be included in that package. If the money isn't there, we have to turn where we can get results, and it's in different forms of competitive exposure. Why is SV so afraid to expose this sector to competition? It's totally incomprehensible to me. Now, in terms of the environment and transport, SV has to make a choice. Do you choose Marx, or do you choose the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1423	Let me first say that I agree with Hans Kjestad that distribution is a good socialist virtue. Then to the concrete. We see that there are scarce means, and we are concerned that the means we have are going to be used as efficiently as possible. We've been supporting the quality-based contracts ever since the start, and we're going to keep doing that. I think it is important that we go further in relation to these quality contracts. It must not be random how they are designed. We see that on the road side you have road standards that guide how you work in the Road Administration. We have no equivalent collective standards for public transport which should guide the work on quality contracts. I am pleased that at least the majority are in favour of saying that it should be an objective to have such collective standards, so that we can intensify work on quality in public transport. But I can't avoid taking inwards that an overall collective industry says that the efficiency potential of public transport has been removed locally. The government itself writes in the collective notice that since 1995 we have had no more efficiency potential to extract. I see that we have an operating grant for public transport in Norway that is far below the average for other European cities. We have to take that inwards. I would like it to be so that we didn't have to worry about more money, but I can't see that in this area – no matter how efficient and regardless of the outsourcing of competition, which there hasn't exactly been a shortage in the public transport sector in Norway. The question is whether that's where we can find new solutions, and I don't think that's the most important thing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1434	The representative Sørensen directly challenges me if it was no easier to lock up some cars than to lock up children. Right is not dependent on any parts. We don't think we should try to lock up the cars, even though in some areas it might be good to bet on public transport, as the representative Sørensen was. But we need the car, because the car is very important in large parts of the country when it comes to getting people from one place to another. So the representative Sørensen keeps talking about that it's just nice words and it's just buttons and slides from the government. It's possible that this isn't the big effort that you might want, but there's no government before that that has added up to such an ambitious scheme as this government when it comes to public transport. Heidi Sørensen also says that we have reduced the bet on public transport. I would like to correct that image a little bit, because if we look at the Railway Agency, they have an increase from last year to this year of almost 10 pst. - 300-350 million. kr – in investments and operations. NSB's got an increase of 300 million. kr in a few years. And if we go into another side of public transport that's very important, but as this message doesn't deal with, simply planes and ferry, we actually have reduced the air passenger charge by 1.5 billion kroner per. years, which means an enormous amount to us who live a little outside of the larger center, and we've increased the drive of the highway by 400 million. NOK 2 in 2 years. If we sum this up and see it a little bit in perspective in relation to what's done before, I think it's a good idea to say that this government really does bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1444	I am not surprised that Petter Løvik will not lock in a single car, because the right is almost frenetic opposition to all the measures that are a bit restrictive. When I think back on the election campaign, it's almost a little funny that the same party – at least here in the city – was more positive with the whipping instruments than what I feel is the Right on the Stortinget. We should have clear respect for the fact that the car has a completely different position in More and Romesdal, but then More and Romsdal must also respect that for us who live in the centre of Oslo, the car represents a pollution problem that makes children with asthma have to stay inside the days it is at worst. To the question of whether it is a bet or not. If you put together the promises in your national transport plan for public transport, which was adopted a year ago in Stortinget, and sums up just as the Government sums up the collective communication, you get a larger figure than you get if you add up what's in the collective communication and continue the railway investment at the current level. I think that's sad. But I record that the Christian People's Party earlier in the debate has suggested that this effort should be in addition to what is stated in the National Transport Plan, and I'm excited to hear if other parties that can participate in the formation of a majority can say the same thing. But I record that none of the government parties could be associated with the Workers' Party and SV about a joint comment that would clarify it. But if it's in addition, it's clear that then this represents a historical bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1451	We have now heard that SV is a major supporter of the railway, and it must be their case. But with the exception of a few railway lines in the biggest cities in Norway, the train traffic is energy consuming, it is expensive, it is noisy and it is oversized. Isn't this interesting for SV to think about at all? With the goal that SV has of 50 pst. increasing rail traffic, this market share will rise from 4 pst. to 6 pst. And car traffic won't go down, for a train traffic increase from 4 pst. to 6 pst. is less than the expected increase in road traffic. Is it not then an alternative for SV to be involved and bet on road development as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1458	Let me first fix a manifest error. The railway is not an energy leak. Looking at the statistics on passenger-kilometres in relation to energy use, there will be the following ratios: Rail is the most energy-efficient. If you want to transport people by bus, you need twice as much energy. If you make the next jump to a passenger car, you need twice as much energy again, and there'll be another doubling, if you drive a plane. There is no form of transport that is close to competing with the railway in terms of energy efficiency. And then we don't think about CO2 emissions, but just the energy factor. So the railway is the most energy efficient way we can transport ourselves from A to Å. These are reports from the Statistical Centre, which have looked at statistics and actual use. If we also include climate emissions, the railway is completely sovereign the most environmentally friendly mode of transport next to the T-Bahn and tram. Then we see, and I expect that the representative of the Progress Party has come along with two types of transport policy. We're betting on road construction in the districts, where it's hard to imagine anything else. But it's absolutely impossible to imagine that we could have a good life and breathe in clean air if we were to bet on a large-scale road construction in Oslo. I myself live at Grünerløkka and have done it for ten years and know what it means to dry black dust from the window sleeve every Friday. Clearly, the improvement we need in air quality does not harmonize with a large-scale road construction in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1465	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1468	It is positive that Stortinget has received a big message about public transport. This issue has been discussed in various cases, and in NTP both comments and decisions have asked for review of various aspects of public transport. But it's the first time that Stortinget has got a separate message about public transport. The message provided is mainly a message about the urban and urban public transport. The majority of the Committee, all except for the Progress Party, agree that a collective and community policy on urban and urban struts and a policy on districts is necessary. In the districts, there will often be no traffic base for collective provision to be an adequate alternative to the private car. Nevertheless, it is important that there is also an offer in the districts for those who cannot use their own car. However, in many places in the country, the passenger car will still be responsible for the most important part of the transport work. It means, as has also been said in the message, that it is necessary to strengthen efforts in road development in the districts. Express bus routes and air routes are important elements of the public sector outside cities and neighbourhoods, especially in order to reduce distance costs. Therefore, in my view, it is a little strange that aviation is completely excluded from this message. Cities and urban areas clearly have the highest potential for public transport. Therefore, in these areas, public transport is the most effective. Urban collective action must be directed at collective transport modes rather than at facilitating increased use of passenger cars. If an offensive public transport service is to be closed, it must develop a collective service that is dimensioned to be a real alternative to the use of a passenger car. Then you also have to meet the requirements set by the users: high frequency, shorter travel time and that the transport offer is punctual and the cost is not too high. It must be invested in various forms of public transport – bus, tram, rail. Both this and the previous Committee on Transport have visited more cities in Europe that have been closed down better in the collective effort than we can point to. What's the response to questions about what's going on to close is that it has to be carrot and whip. It is not necessarily enough just to facilitate a good collective offer; this should be combined with restrictions on the use of a car and the number of parking spaces. This combination of carrots and whips has not been discussed in a very special way in the message. However, the entire Committee, except for the Progress Party, has pointed out that, through an active and purpose-driven parking policy, local governance can have an effective means of regulating passenger car traffic and improving the overall use of resources in cities. In parts of the country, rail is an important part of collective provision. I mean, like the plurality of the committee, it's important to take advantage of the railway's advantages, and that the railway must be given priority, especially where it has its greatest advantage, the long distances, the intercity triangle around Oslo and the local sections around the big cities. Increased rail capacity in these areas may mean a reduction in the need to expand the capacity of the road network where traffic problems are greatest. The Government proposes that the NSB AS should be given greater freedom to lay down all or part of the passenger train traffic if the train traffic cannot meet the competition from the express bus offer. Together with the Workers' Party and the SV, the Centre Party has expressed scepticism in entrusting responsibility for this to NSB AS, and believes that political bodies must deal with such matters. I record that parts of the press do not take with the Center Party in this note, but I write more on the press’s ability – or perhaps will – to count more than two batches. Discount schemes for young people and students are important measures to stimulate young people’s good travel habits by using public transport. In the message the Government enters for a 40 pst discount for elephants and students. The Government has contributed money to this in the revised national budget, and the Central Party expects this to ensure satisfactory funding of the discount schemes from 1 August 2002. The Central Party also believes that the school and student rebate should be 50 pst., and has, together with the Labour Party and SV, proposed that the Government return to the Stortinget with proposals in the 2003 State Budget. The centre party is also involved in the plurality of requests for an assessment of the coordination of all discounts targeted at young people, elephants, untied apprentices and students, with a view to establishing as uniform a system of discounts as possible. Collective notifications focus on passenger transport. The centre party also believes it is important to get more goods away from the road network and over to the railway and boat. This will include: contribute to reducing emissions from the transport sector. Road/railway/port junction developments are important measures in facilitating transhipment between different modes of transport. After the opinion of the Centre Party, it is natural to address this issue in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan. If I am allowed, I would like to correct a mistake in the setting. It's on page 26, second column, under point 26. 6.2. It says : «The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party refer to the Budget-Inst. [[2001-2002]] 13 and Inn. [[2001-2002]] O. No 66 where the vision of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left...» ‘... where the vision of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party’ shall be in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1497	We've noticed the correction. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1502	In the work of the Collective Notice, the Centre Party has very much gone in and supported the arrangement of the Government, and I think that is very positive. I can agree on most of the contributions of the representative Jorunn Ringstad. With regard to the districts and roads and the two-part policy to which this message refers, we in the Christian People's Party are very much in agreement with the Centre Party. When there are questions about carrot and whip, I also very much agree, but I cannot fully agree that nothing has been said in the message about whip – that is, among other things. mentioned road pricing. Although road pricing is to be based on a local initiative, road pricing is an action that can be implemented. But there's a point I want to go a little bit special into. In a joint note from the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, one refers to the Climate Communication, which is also debated, where an important means is to reduce CO2 emissions, and that the CO2 tax is thus important. Then it's written: ‘These members have noticed that projections made by the State Pollution Control show that emissions from the transport sector will continue to increase.’ Then my question is to the Center Party. What measures, other than those mentioned in the notification, could the Centre Party propose to introduce to further reduce CO2 pollution?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1514	It was interesting to get a line from a former center camera. It is quite correct, as Jan Sahl points out, that the Central Party supports the Government configuration in much of this setting. We can say that we are also representative of what the committee has said. There's a broad uprising, and then there's some party that will go a little bit further, and some parties that won't go as far as the government. It's probably not to deny something everyone should know, that the emissions due to traffic are high, and it's extra big in cities and urban areas. Then it's like it's come out before, so that sometimes it can be, for example. in Oslo, there is so much pollution that asthmatics and others have to stay in it. We know that if we continue with the policy we have, this will only be worse and worse. The emission will continue to increase. Then Jan Sahl asks about what other medicine than what is mentioned in the message, the center party has to propose. It may not be necessary to look for new medicine, but to use more of the medicine that we know works. It can be, for example, to increase the share of public transport and, at the same time, reduce car use. And then one might have to take such drastic measures as what we in the Committee on Transport – both this committee and the previous committee, as I mentioned in my speech – have heard from large cities in other countries, that they must be quite restrictive. But what is important is that we start to become restrictive about car use and look at the number of parking spaces, and we also need an alternative offer, i.e. the provision of public transport. One cannot use the whip first, and then the carrot comes later. It has to come in the right order.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1523	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1526	The left did not opt for cheaper public transport to all. We opted for better public transport, and especially for a national collective lift in our largest cities. At the same time, we would give young people and students, who need it the most, a discount as monks in their daily use of buses, trams and lanes. What the left might think of as the most enjoyable thing in the message is that the government is proposing to reward big cities that are willing to make public transport more competitive than private cars. This is a completely necessary grip. The cities need to increase government investment, while the state cannot make public transport competitive if cities do not move in the same direction. It is the combination of local traffic regulation measures and public transport efforts that give environmental impact and more pleasant cities to live in. The Left notes that the Committee on Transport agrees on such a priority. The Oslo Lir T-bana today of many years of neglect of maintenance and investment in new material. With the Workers' Party and, in part, the Socialist Left Party by the power of government and city council, Oslo has its collective offering our balancing position. The Labour Party has made sure or at best our helpless envoys that people can't trust that the path comes when it's supposed to, or that the bus gets out so it can hold the route. Left, Christian People's Party and Right are doing something about this. At local level, the Co-operation Council has seen billions of investments in order to re-launch the maintenance of the T-Bahn – one with a four-year ambition for implementation – while the construction of the T-Bahn is progressing rapidly. On a state level, the first Minister for Transport Torild Skogsholm took over as she took over in the fall after the Workers' Party's Terje Moe Gustavsen. NOK over the state budget to upgrade the T-Bahn. Work party wouldn't allow a single penny. In the collective announcement, the government steps up the bet further: up to half a billion dollars will go to make the T-Bahn better in the next few years, in addition to Oslo Municipality's own bet and what's all in Oslopackak 2. The working party's reaction to this is that the government does not do enough. It might be, based on a desire to solve all of Oslo's problems overnight. The important thing is that the Left and the other government parties, unlike the Workers' Party, do a lot – so much that Oslo Sporvejer himself reacted very positively when the collective message was presented. They compare to what they're used to, not with the Workers' Party's party speakers. In the same way that we participate in a spice layer in Oslo, we also have to go in and work together on the collective lift in the other big cities. The left sees, among other things, until the government in a short time presents a case about the Bergen programme, which may be a corresponding trend shift for collective investment in one of Norway’s most car-based major cities. The first runs of the city track made the Left pass. But in Bergen too, the challenges have to go to local government. State drag assistance is not good enough if a local priority is to reduce public traffic and continue to build up centres for increased use of cars. The left will fight at all levels to put public transport ahead, both in Bergen and in other major cities. It's a challenge to bring with it too many of the other parties that are present in this room. The attitude of the Transport Committee shows that the Government’s measures for better public transport are widely supported by the Stortinget, both by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. I also notice that the Socialist Left Party in a long range of areas is trying to overtake the Government on public transport. It is no big surprise that the money is loose in the Socialist Left Party wallet for good purposes. The problem is, as usual, that the Socialist Left Party is unable to prioritise. It should give the representative Heidi Sørensen a faint taste in her mouth that she here cares about with new billions a few days after her colleague Øystein Djupedal in close embrace with the Progress Party has distributed 5 billion kroner to kindergartens without showing where the money should be taken from. Is it from public transport? Is that from the Road Budget? Such overcrowded policies are to keep people fooled, and the representative Sørensen's collective billions can become little worlds. The collective message shows that the Left has been passed. The collective report shows that we have finally received a government that shows a clear willingness to prioritise public transport rather than increasing car use in our big cities. This is therefore a happy day for both the Left and Norwegian collective users. There must be a paradox for many workers' parties involved in the environment, and not least for the Workers' Party's loyal supporting players in the Socialist Left Party, that a so-called civil government had to intervene in order to address the major cities' transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1545	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1549	I think it's a little sad that when you're in government and you're allowed to pursue your own policy, you're as liberal as the left-wing representative now shows. In the old days, when I was working in the environmental movement, we used to say that when the Left had a bad case, they had to attack others, and if they had a really bad case, they had to attack the Workers' Party. And if, in order to find out that the Left has a good collective policy, you have to stress that there are two things that are better than the Workers' Party, then there is a different level of ambition than the Left has previously had. But to be absolutely honest, there's no big difference between the primary collective policy of the Left and the SV. We've been together about a lot of these things. Nor do I see any reason to attack much of the primary. And we realize that the Left sits in government and does not get it all they want when they bring with them both the Christian People's Party and the Right on the load. But in the case of kindergartens, I have a very good conscience in relation to public transport and air pollution. Because when you're in Oslo and you're going to convince people to drive collectively, when in life is it people stop driving collectively? Well, that's when they've had two children and in the morning they're going to drive one kid in one kindergarten and the other kid in another. In fact, raising kindergartens cannot be such a very bad measure to improve the air situation and get more people to drive collectively. So the very thing that we're also on a promise to get better kindergartens, I think is good both for the environment and for public transport. Otherwise, I think we're gonna be able to cooperate with the left forward, without it being so difficult, even if you're being attacked sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1558	Locally, I have experienced a very constructive collaboration with the Socialist Left Party to come up with good collective solutions and put these things on the agenda. But once the Left has joined the government, it's actually because we want to be involved and influence, we want to get what we stand for. I have been sitting and following the debate today, and I feel that the Socialist Left always says that it is a do, not good enough. When it's actually this government that's seen public transport on the agenda, and that has commitments of between $1.5 billion and $2 billion, you're always going to have to go further. And when you look at all the promises made by the Socialist Left Party in different areas, I'm simply asking the question, how is the party going to be able to carry out the great promises given in different areas? Then I have to ask questions about the credibility of what is being said. We have a common goal and a common desire, but the Left has chosen to enter and participate and influence where the decisions are made. I want to join the Socialist Left Party as an active member. And I'm very happy that we've got a deal when it comes to climate policy, where we can also be involved and prioritize an important piece to solve the major climate challenges, by putting public transport and less use of cars in our big cities on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1569	In a parliament, it is probably almost possible to do so by the chair. I guess it's not unparliamentary. But I experienced the last articles and the description of the situation in Oslo that so falsified that I had to react to it. Let me remind the representative from the Left that we have a dramatic situation in Oslo as a result of a bourgeois policy, as a result of a city council in which the Left is also represented, which has led us to have such a poorly functioning metro that we have sometimes experienced it as dangerous to drive with it. We have an offer on the tram side that is so bad that it is a sporty effort to use them at all, and we have a standard on the buses that is so bad that it hardly works, and we also have problems there. That is why I have to ask the representative of the Left. Does she understand that the collective policy in Oslo is car-friendly for the country? Because if that is the kind of policy that the Left's representative wants to influence in order to implement, we are facing a serious situation in the country. In the program to the left it's called, and then I just quote a small part of the program of course: ‘Left requires a high level of railway effort in the coming years.’ I would then like to ask the question: does the Left consider the proposal for collective service to be a major effort on the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1585	No, Left probably doesn't think that the collective image in Oslo is 'illustrative' for the rest of the country, and that it's a goal to reach. That is why the Left wants to invest in public transport in Oslo. For this reason, the Left has entered an urban council and really wants to bet, set up a mandatory plan to be implemented by 2005. For this reason, the Left has joined the government and wants to increase the rights to the T-banning and to the measures needed in Oslo. That is why we have worked for an Oslo package 2, which prioritises public transport rather than car traffic. If the representative Froyn goes into and sees in the national transport plan, he will also see what kind of leaders left put in it to prioritize the collective effort. There is a commitment to collective action both in Oslo and in other parts of the country. There are also railway bets. We've been especially concerned with the rail challenges one has in Oslo, with double tracks in the east and in the west, to get the railway effort on the right track and get more people to go in and out of Oslo collectively. But then I also assume that the representative Froyn has come to realize that we are very restrictive about going in and building six, eight, ten-field highways. We've really wanted to bet on collective action in Oslo. We're in a city council, and we're in a government to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1592	If a few are to bet on public transport, I believe that cooperation between the municipality, the municipality, the county and the state is important. I must say that I am very surprised by the representative from the left who is here to take a specifier with local forces. In Bergen's Official Journal yesterday, May Britt Vihovde came with criticism of both the city politicians and state politicians, especially in Hordaland, and she repeated this from the pulpit today, as if one were doing nothing. Ein is in a ‘dispute situation’ in the county because of a lack of money. It is not right, as the representative Vihovde says, that one has not done anything locally. In Bergen one has been among the first when it comes to gas buses. The Trolleybus has a choice to bet on in Bergen and uses a lot of local resources, like the project in the Kokstad-Sandsli area, known to May Britt Vihovde. Student discount was introduced in 2001 in Hordaland, and tariff freezes were also early out with. So I think you need to have a different attitude to cooperation. In order to get something done on the collective side, the state has to join in and allow money, and one must not disperse those who are really on the verge of doing something, in order to do what May Britt Vihovde and all of us on the Storting say that we have an intention, to improve public transport, and then one must not disperse them. I'm very surprised when you put that tone instead of saying that you're going to be there and allow a little bit more money so that you can do a little bit more on the collective side of the big cities, but don't get the real ones to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1597	I don't have the habit of figuring out anything, either locally or centrally. But I wanted to point out that when the focus is constantly focused on the lack of state-led public transport concessions in Hordaland, the principle is clearly stated in this collective message – and a mass mass, I wonder beyond the Progress Party, has come to an agreement – that those who set up locally with good measures to promote good collective action, whether it is traffic-regulating or indebted, are to be appreciated by the State. When one sees that Bergen and Hordaland are almost in jumbo space when it comes to collective action, while one can see traffic growth in Kristiansand and Stavanger, one can look at West Agder and Rogaland who have set things up and got things done, a few have to ask questions and point out that here it has to work together. The left has contributed to the implementation of good things in our constructive areas in Hordaland. But it is the policy that has been in this state for many decades, where one has prioritised road development rather than good collective provision and good collective action, which is now becoming so dramatic in Bergen. And then I want to say that it was this government, where the left is involved, that made sure that the first five million. kr to the urban track in Bergen. We're really busy getting to this, and one will also see when the Bergen program is presented tomorrow, hopefully, that the left will be in a split. But I would like to point out that then, local politicians must also be involved and give priority to collective action and not sit and wait for the state to participate and contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1606	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1609	When we talk about collective action, it is important to distinguish between the needs of the districts and the needs of those who live in cities and the urban areas that are mentioned. For the Workers' Party, it is important to have a transport policy that also takes place in the districts. But then it's in the cities that one can get the most out of investing in public transport, because it's in spite of everything where the most people live. The Labour Party is summed up in Regeninga's assessment that there is a need for a cap to develop public transport as an attractive alternative to the car in the cities. The description of the collective effort situation is good. But power can't take any more money to set a permission. It's money that comes into being if you're going to take a take-off. And then I want to pay tribute to the government for adding money to the city track in Bergen. It's an important investment in relation to Bergen. Then I would also like to remind you that the Labour Party has been involved. We actually also had more money for bets in the big cities. So that's what we're talking about. I don't think it's the Labour Party that's going to prevent any kind of bet that the Government wants to bring with it when it comes to money for public transport. But force, as one says one will take, is totally dependent on money. Then I must say that those who have disappointed me most when it comes to collective action are the Christian People's Party. There were many of us who participated in the election campaign last year, and it was something on which it was focused, it was collective action and reduction of prices. I didn't have much to promise, I, of money when I was standing on the stand, as the Lions and the others from the Christian People's Party had. They talked about a reduction in the price of the bus tickets, and they showed us all what a ticket would look like when they came to power after the election. Then the price would be $8 and not $20 for the students. For adults it would be NOK 15 and not NOK 20, and the honorary price would be NOK 8. So everyone knew what to pay in public transport tickets after the election -- no, during the four-year period, I'm going to fix it. But then you have to start reducing when you come to a new budget. So the situation is now going to have to increase public transport in Bergen. It's problematic, I think, to enter into a dialogue with people that one should bet on public transport, they should trust us and believe in us, and then they feel that one does not bet anything from the state. It is absolutely essential that the state participates and invests, if one is to be able to reduce prices. Now there's one in the situation that one should increase them. It's on the loose. That's why the disappointment of the Christian People's Party is more than it should be, but it's because one believed that when they promised so much, they had the intention to keep it. But it's clear that when you're engaged to tax credits for those who have the most, you don't have that much left to bet on public transport. Yesterday there was a big look in Bergen's Official Journal about a new lifting break with regard to bus taxis. It doesn't make it easier for us to have political confidence in the voters. For this reason, the Labour Party has taken the view that we must invest in public transport from this year on and increase the rewards of the revised national budget. Then, of course, we have to follow up on the budget that comes to the fall. Otherwise it's not good enough, otherwise it's too small. But the message that we are discussing today is important, and that one gets to focus on it. But then it's also important with money. And then I finally want to deal with this with the railway, which is an important collective means of transport in the cities and areas around the cities. That's where you can use it, and then you're going to need more money for bet and investment. It is clear that the double track through Ulrikstunnel will contribute to a huge lift for the local traffic supply, as well as for long-distance transport, of course, if one is to travel between Bergen and Oslo. So the railway is an important collective offer, as well as a bet on public transport around the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13.ana.ud786e1624	The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to come. The next speaker is the state councillor, Torild Skogsholm, but the president doesn't find it useful that the state council keeps its posts now, and that we take the line change in the evening meeting. The President therefore proposes that this morning's meeting be cancelled and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is then the Torild Skogsholm State Council.
