ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e26	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e37	I feel great joy today because we have a joint committee that will now change this law. When Mr Per Sandberg and I promoted a Document No. Eight proposals, which were referred to in the motion, which called for amendments to the Children's Act and the Dispute Case Law, we naturally hoped for such an outcome. But there is often a long way between hope and political results. This is not a political matter in the way that it is governed by ideology and party politics. There is much more to it than a matter of common sense, justice and the practical consequences of the existence of DNA technology. The problem is that the children's law, as it has been designed up to today, does not guarantee justice and equality between mothers and fathers, because all fathers who want to have a confirmation of whether they are father or not have been admitted to consenting to DNA testing. The mother has had a veto right. The biggest and most important problem in this context is that the child does not know who his biological father is, and that biological fathers do not know whether he is a father or not. The Ministry of Children and the Family has worked on a review of the legislation on the determination and modification of hazards. The Ministry has immediately concluded as Document No. The 8-proposal from Sandberg and me. This review has now been clarified in Ot.prp. No 93 for 2001-2002. I am very pleased that this proposal has been widely consulted and that there is broad agreement on the proposals that are now being promoted. As politicians, it is important that we focus on the child's best interests. It must be an obvious right for all children to know their biological origin. When it comes to the relationship between the biological parents, nature makes sure that there is little doubt about who is the mother of the child. However, it has historically been possible to doubt the fathership. This is what DNA technology has put a clear stop to. DNA has given us the possibility of equality between men and women when it comes to the question of who are parents. There are a number of examples where persons under considerable pressure, judicial decision or recognition have been convicted of danger, but who have subsequently proved to be wrong. It is obvious that the law as it has been has limited the possibility of correcting such errors. Many men who have come into this situation have had to cope with severe stress, psychological problems, as well as economic pressures, such as those at work. have to pay child contributions. This will now be able to be corrected and given some compensation for. It is, as I said, broad agreement in this matter, except for two less divergences, one from the Workers' Party and one from the SV. As far as the Workers' Party is concerned, they have a proper position in themselves, they will have a restriction on the right of third parties to bring a case. I disagree with their point of view, but it's curative to deal with. On the other hand, I am somewhat more amazed. In a special remark, the party states that ‘the law is not to be retroactive’. I believe that the main purpose of such a change in law has not been fully achieved. The main purpose of the law is just to correct some major errors that have been made before the DNA technology was introduced. So here I'm saying I don't understand. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposition adds up to changed possibilities of recognizing paternity before birth, and about these regulatory changes there is no disagreement. I would like to present the Committee's position on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e69	There is broad consensus in the Committee on the main features of the Proposition of the Government. The working party does not believe that it is the technology that is mainly involved in this treatment. It's not DNA testing or pater est rule. It is not a recovery period or a limitation period. The main consideration of this amendment is what is best for the child. In the view of the Labour Party, it is best for the child to be told who is the father of the child as early as possible. It is not in the child’s interest that uncertainty or doubt about who is the danger should exist for years. It is not in the best interests of the child that a convicted father should go for years with the uncertainty, possibly even denial, that may lie in these kinds of cases. Therefore, DNA technology has brought a new advantage: We can say with great certainty who is the father of the child. On one point, we diverge from the majority: we want to maintain a three-year period for the third party's requirement to travel a paternity case. The amendment to which the committee agrees with the fact that the person who is condemned or claimed to be a father must be entitled to DNA testing, we are fully in agreement. But what do we do in those cases where the child already has an established father and there comes a third person who believes that he is the father of the child and demands that the matter be addressed? Should the person be entitled to intervene in the established family pattern that already exists? Will the third person have the right to raise an issue that will break down the familiar patterns that the child and his parents have? I must say I am a little surprised that the Christian People's Party, and also to the extent that the Advance Party, which in many debates and in many lectures appears to be the family's defenders, will give a third party unlimited justice. So you could say that it might be for the child's best to also know if the third person is a father. As the child grows up, the child himself can pray for the type of DNA testing. Those rights are fully respected for the child. The question is what rights the person outside the established father and the established mother must have. We believe that there must be a deadline. We believe that the third person must take up such a matter within the child is three years, otherwise we are afraid that such a person outside the established patterns may have an unjustified power. It implies an unjustified uncertainty factor for the established family pattern. I would like to raise the proposal from the Labour Party. I would also like to challenge the forthcoming speakers from the Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement and also the Right: why can't we be in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e80	Trond Giske has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e83	Half of Norwegian children are born today outside marriage. There is a remarkably high number in the international context. Fortunately, however, the vast majority of children born outside marriage have cohabiting parents. Most of these children are therefore born into safe and stable mating conditions. However, there is no doubt that there has been a trend towards more and more children growing up with more uncertain family frameworks than before. We have to recognize that several families are disintegrating, and that more children are growing up with parents who do not live together. Some children also grow up without being sure of who is their father. Knowledge of biological origin is of great emotional importance to individuals. Eventually, the knowledge of the biological origin also has a greater medical significance, without necessarily being the argument that I want to place the emphasis on this matter. Today, hazards are determined in three ways: either by the Father Est rule, by recognition or by judgment. Most fathers will recognize the fathership of their children as a matter of course. But as I've already been involved, social development makes it unclear about fatherhood in more matters than before. We are therefore pleased that the Government has placed great emphasis on the importance that children can get to know their biological origin as early as possible. I think the argument that marriage and the social relationship between parents and children must be protected from the third-party claim of fatherhood is a perfectly legitimate argument. Marriage is an important and unique institution, and although, unfortunately, many marriages break up, marriages in many ways constitute an important framework for a couple relationship that we need to protect and have a special position. This does not mean that other forms of life are minor in any way – just as they have been said. So many people are concerned that a third party should be able to destroy a stable relationship by claiming that he, and not the legal father of the child, is the biological danger. I'm afraid they're far on the way right. I'm afraid that many relationships will collapse because of such claims. But the point is: that's the way it is today too! Today, anyone can destabilize any relationship or relationship by claiming that he is the father of the child in the relationship. Yes, until the child is three years old, he even has a right to travel in the same way, according to the rules that apply today. That's why we want to lift the restrictions that exist today, not only allow third parties to destabilize the relationships of others by making claims about fatherhood, but also allow him to raise a case. Then there will be clarity and certainty around the fatherhood. Two things can happen: either is the third party father or he isn't. If he is not, the family is riddled with unlucky claims from an outsider once and for all, and that is a great advantage for all parties. However, if the third party is the father, he has won with a legitimate claim to know his own children. But let me also make it clear that he has at the same time taken on rather heavy financial obligations. The truth can hurt, we have to be aware of that. But as a politician, I don't want to explain to other people why I don't think they should be allowed to know their biological origin or their offspring. It has to be up to people to decide for themselves, and it has to be up to people to control this part of their lives. Therefore, we will remove the restrictions in Section 6 of the Children's Act and have third parties bring up a matter of fatherhood. The truth isn't just bad, it also brings with it a lot of good. A majority of the Committee also supports an extension of the possibility of recognising hazard. From now on, prospective fathers may be given the opportunity to recognise the skills of pregnancy control. Hopefully, many people will use this opportunity to recognize the danger in a more relaxed and pleasant atmosphere. The cooperation parties have also noticed that according to Section 62 of the Children's Act, the State only repays contributions with the same sum as paid, i.e. kroner. We are pleased that a unanimous committee now asks the Government to take a closer look at these circumstances and assess the consequences of any change, so that contributors who, after paying child contributions for a period of time, find out that they are not the father of the child, will be refunded the contribution either with interest or with some kind of indexation of the amount, as inflation ensures that a given amount of the crown is less and less valued year by year. All in all, the change in the law that the Storting is about to adopt today is an important step in the right direction to ensure children's right to know their biological origin. In addition, it gives not only mothers, as it has been so far, but also fathers access to try a fathership, which is right in relation to the equality of parents, and especially in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e106	Today, we are discussing proposals for a change in the Children’s Act with regard to the definition and change of danger — an important and necessary legislative change. There have been major changes in the family structure in recent years. In the period 1981-1985, 20 pst. of all children born outside marriage in Norway. Today, this group is 49.6 pst. - or 50 p.p., which was in the middle of the last speech. That is, it's just as common for single parents to marry. As a starting point, it is important to know that most fathers who are not married to their mother at birth are cohabitants with their mother. Most fathers recognize the father as their own desire, and most do so in the postpartum maternity ward. The Norwegian Mortgage Association and the Mortgage Association of Norwegian Nurses have long wanted fatherhood to be recognised in the context of maternity care, in the context of pregnancy control. This is proposed, inter alia: to prevent unpleasant situations in the maternity ward, e.g.: Father refuses to acknowledge fathership right after birth, or that he refuses to sign father’s signature when father is under 18. As a midwife I have experienced this many times, and for mother this is very uncomfortable right after a birth. The proposal that this can now be done within maternity care in calmer forms, which was mentioned earlier, is necessary and correct. SV is happy about it and supports this amendment. It is also important for father to recognise the hazard already during the pregnancy period. The proposal to amend Section 6 of the Children's Act is adopted here today, and hereafter the child, each of the parents and third parties who consider him to be the father of the child, will always be able to bring an action before the courts on the paternity after marriage or marriage. This amendment of the law will now equate the child, the woman and the man, so that everyone can always sue for the determination of fatherhood. A new paragraph 28(a) of the Act will allow the right to impose blood tests and DNA analysis when there is a case on the determination of hazard. It is the child’s rights that are the most important argument to support this amendment to the law for SV. The starting point of the Children's Act is the child's best, and SV will state that the child's need to know his biological origin as early as possible is the most important argument for us with this amendment. This is also becoming much more important in medical terms, with the development of genetic engineering and medicine. This amendment is also in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. A child has the right, as far as possible, to know his biological origin. But here's a lot of cuts in the sea. With this amendment, difficult situations may also arise for all parties involved. There are many children who have had a social father for many years who will be told by this amendment that their biological father is a completely different. Many fathers who have been the father of a child for many years may end up living with the child’s mother without being considered to be the child’s biological father. Therefore, in line with the Children’s Ombudsman’s recommendations, SV will state that the child’s best interests must be cared for once the child has lived with a social father for many years, and it is established that another man is a biological father to the child. It must not be automatic for a biological father to participate in the child’s growth, to be assigned parental responsibility or to require association with the child. The best interests of the child must be the responsibility of the courts, and the child himself must be heard. This is exactly what happens to foster children living in foster homes for many years. If there is a case of repatriation, it is the court that decides whether or not to do so in the best interests of the child. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, has supported this comment from the SV. In conclusion, I would like to say that the law will never be able to be formulated in such a way that all parties in a farce case get the desired result. Nor can the law prevent painful situations for children, families and/or potential fathers. What I hope and believe is that today's legislative amendments in the long term can reduce the number of cases where there is doubt about the danger. The fact that mother can no longer refuse a DNA test means that even father and child can get a clarification much earlier. So to the Progress Party: because of the complexity of these matters, SV wants the law not to have retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e125	There is an important and difficult change in the Children’s Act Stortinget treats today. These are arguments in favour of and against the proposed amendment. Last time the Storting dealt with changes in the rules of the Children's Act on fatherhood, in the spring of 1997, the Christian People's Party was alone in opposing the fact that the person claiming to be a father has legal jurisdiction. The Christian People's Party chose from a difficult point of view to take into account that it could harm the child if an outsider breaks into a marriage where the spouses want to continue living together. The Christian People's Party concluded in 1997 that in most cases the best thing for the child will be to continue to grow up in security and stability together with mother and legal father. Why have we turned around? In value issues, it is important to have some general principles. The Christian People's Party has the absolute human value as a fundamental value. The right to have knowledge of their identity and origin is fundamental. We now conclude that the pater est rule, in its ultimate consequence, is a lie put in the system, and we cannot defend that. Families are in the long run not served to hide as important family secrets as this is. I'm referring here to the openness we've been fortunately given about adoption. One or two generations ago, such knowledge was to be hidden from the outside world, and at least from the child. Today, ‘all’ agree that it is unfortunate and, in the worst case, harmful for children to grow up with remorse and lie about their origins. We believe today that openness about these things is and will be the best. Surprisingly, therefore, the Workers' Party has taken the position of the Christian People's Party in the past. They have made the stability and security of the nuclear family their main concern — here based on the continuation of actual conditions. And the reason is the best for the child. This is somewhat surprising perhaps, also because one would think that the new technological advances in the use of DNA testing would have changed everyone's perception in such a case. This is particularly strange because the Workers' Party has repeatedly said that they are concerned that adoption children should have the opportunity to become acquainted with their biological origin. But the Workers' Party is not as consistent in the case of children who have been conceived by artificial conception, nor in the case of the determination of fatherhood, which we are dealing with here today. In this area, the Workers' Party shows a lack of willingness to think in principle. The Christian People's Party believes that adoptive children and those who have been conceived through artificial conception shall have the right to become acquainted with their biological origin. But this right also applies to children who live in families where there is doubt about their fatherhood. The right to know its biological origin must apply to all children. Critical questions are addressed to the retroactive effect of the amendment. To that I would say, it is contrary to the intention behind the bill if the proposal is to apply only to children born after the law came into force. It's equally important for children born before the law came into force, to get to know their biological origin. The fact that the parents have arranged that the truth will never come out is also not exactly suitable for creating trusting and good relations in a family. The above mentioned changes have been proposed precisely to ensure that everyone can sue for danger without any conditions or deadlines. Therefore, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, transitional rules are not natural. At the same time, it is also important to establish that this is a matter for the courts, for the courts. There is nothing that should be left to the individual family itself or to a more or less randomly chosen office to decide. The Court of First Instance shall rule. The child or mother or father of the family or third party shall not have an unlimited opportunity to intervene, as Trond Giske put it in his statement. Finally, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the legislative amendment places great emphasis on children being given the opportunity to get to know their biological origins as early as possible, so that they can grow up calmly and confidently about these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e146	As a representative of the Central Party, I do not need to make any long-term comments on this matter. The Central Party agrees with the Committee number and mainly supports the Government’s proposal for legislative change. We have noticed that the hearing bodies also largely supported these changes and feel that we are in favour of a legislative change that has broad support for the population. The term ‘best for the child’ is widely used in the preparation of the case, and the need for the child to know its biological origin as early as possible is the main argument for the amendment of the law – in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Today's law hampers the possibility of correcting errors where people have been convicted of danger, or have recognized danger, but where later it has proved that the person is not the child's biological father. Such errors can now be corrected so that families can be made aware of biological hazards. Knowledge of biological origin is of great emotional importance for individuals and, eventually, also greater medical significance. It is also a great feeling for a man to be the legal father of a child he beviled is his, without the possibility of having the father clarified with certainty. It is also obvious that there is a difficult situation characterized by sleep and despair for a man to depend on the consent of the legal parents to determine whether he is the father of the child or not. This is now corrected. This was all I needed to say in this case. And, as I said, the Central Party sees these legislative changes as significant improvements and supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e157	I am pleased that the majority of the committee has joined the Government's proposal for amendments to the Children's Code for the definition and modification of hazard. The proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act require that all parties involved should be able to raise a case in order to clarify who is the biological father of a child. It is proposed to remove the conditions and time limits for bringing proceedings for changes in hazard. The child already has such an unconditional right to travel a father's case today. The new thing is that even mother, father and a man who thinks he can be the father of a child, a so-called third party, can raise a case without any conditions and without any deadlines. The proposal applies both in those cases where the mother is married and the fathership follows directly from the marriage – the so-called father est rule – and if it results from a man having acknowledged the fatherhood. The Government also proposes to facilitate the resumption of a case in cases where the hazard is determined by judgment. The proposal provides the parties to a farce case with an opportunity to re-open the case if it has been dealt with by the court without a DNA analysis being available. The proposals have been consulted and have been widely endorsed by the hearing bodies. The government has also proposed a change to make it easier to recognise prenatal disability. The recognition of the danger can be made today in the birth announcement, i.e. at birth, or at the personal presence of the population register, county council office or a judge. The government is now proposing that all doctors and midwives be able to receive qualifications for pregnancy control. The background is that this will be simple and practical for parents. This proposal has also been widely endorsed in the consultation round. DNA analysis has led to increased safety and precision in the determination of hazard and thus to increased emphasis on knowledge of biological relationships. In addition, the biological hazard may be an important medical indication for the child. The government believes that it is very important for a child to get to know his biological origin as early as possible. It is also the main reason why the Government now believes it is necessary to give all parties the opportunity to file a case on fatherhood. Legal parents may also need to clarify the situation around their fatherhood. It could mean a lot for the relationship between father and child to clarify a doubt that has arisen around the father. A man who thinks he is the father of a child who already has a legal father may also have a legitimate interest in getting to raise a case about his father. A change in the hazard may lead to the possibility of establishing prolonged contact with the child. A matter of change in fatherhood can also lead to unrest and upheavals in a child's life. However, in cases where one of the parties wishes to sue about the hazard, a situation of doubt and uncertainty about the hazard has already arisen. It is difficult to prevent the child from being affected by this. There is therefore a need to give both mother, father and a man who thinks he can be the father of a child, the opportunity to clarify who is the child's biological father. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party have made a proposal to maintain current restrictions on the jurisdiction of third parties. That is, a man who thinks he can be the father of a child who already has a legal father, still should be able to raise a case only until the child is three years old. Clearly, the proceedings of a third party may lead to a new legal father for the child. This will lead to this man, among other things: may require contact with the child. If the parents do not agree on a co-operation arrangement, the issue must be decided on in a separate case concerning the presence of the county council or court. Such a decision shall, as in other cases, be consistent with the best interests of the child. It could have the same consequences for the child if Mother sues about changing the fatherhood. Similarly, it could have major consequences for the child both financially and emotionally in cases where a man who has been the child's legal and social father for several years chooses to travel to the father's office. The Government has proposed changes to the Children’s Code on the change of hazard based on a balance between the child’s need for tranquility, stability and safety in an established family and the child’s need to know its biological origin. In addition, account has been taken of the need of legal mother and father and third parties to clarify the biological hazard. In the view of the Government, it is not natural in the best interests of the child to place a third party in a position other than that of legal parents in relation to the possibility of action to clarify the danger. Although the conditions and deadlines for bringing proceedings on fatherhood are also removed for third parties, I believe that it is unlikely that men will use legal remedies without there being any grounds for doing so – just to expose a family to prosecution. With a DNA test it will be possible to determine with certainty whether a man is the father of a child. So a man will in any case only be able to raise a case about the fathership once. There are also rules in the Children's Act that determine that if a DNA test identifies a man as a father or shows that he cannot be the father of a child, he can be dismissed without a main negotiation. Therefore, a hazard case could be decided relatively quickly and easily. The Committee has asked the Ministry to assess the consequences of introducing index regulation or the calculation of interest on the repayment of child contributions in cases where a man is acquitted of a hazard. It has to be assumed that the proposed amendments to the legislation for the modification of hazards will lead to more hazard cases and thus to a number of further cases for the refund of contributions. However, it is currently very difficult to estimate how many demands will be made and how large they may be. In this respect, I would like to mention that no repayment claim against the public interest in the rest of the legislation is subject to indexation or interest calculations. But I have noticed the Committee's wish for an assessment of this point, and will come back to the matter. The members of the SV Committee have proposed that the legislative changes should not be retroactive. However, nothing has been said in detail in the position on what this proposal involves. It is important, in the government's view, that the amendment also includes children born before the law came into force. The background to the legislative amendments proposals is precisely to ensure that everyone can sue for danger without any conditions or deadlines. Therefore, no transitional rules are proposed either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e191	The Council of State and the Labour Party agree on the main features of what we are about to adopt today. We agree that a person who has been unjustly convicted of a danger will have the full opportunity to clarify it with a DNA test, even if the fathership has previously been declared by the old technology courts. We're 100 pst. agree that a father, if any, should have the same opportunity as a mother to raise a father’s case in order to clarify whether he is a father or not. Where we separate layers, it's still going to be such that in the cases where the child has already established a father relationship, it's going to be a restriction for an outside third party to have a father case raised. There we believe that within the child there are three years of age you have to deal with such a matter. That's not an absolute limit. We also say in our proposal that there should be an opportunity for this later if special consideration so requires, but it should not be an automatic one right after the child is three years old. Now we heard Right Representative Afshan Rafiq say that this is going to lead to a lot of relationships going to collapse, that it's going to lead to a lot of social unrest for the child, but that the truth is going to come out. It reminds me of a play of happy Ibsen, the "Wildman", where the truth was to come out, costing what it would cost, also for the child. My question to the Council of State is: why do the parties of government oppose such a restriction on automatic justice? The child will always be able to take up the matter again. Why should a person who is then outside, but who may have a suspicion that he is a father, not have a pressure to deal with the matter when the child is newborn or as early as possible, but instead find out, after the child is eight, ten or twelve years old, that he will now take up the matter again, or perhaps only threaten to raise the matter to the mother, who may not have told his husband about the relationship behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e202	I am pleased that we agree on the main features of this amendment. The second most important red thread in the proposal is the child's very clear right to know his biological origin, that is to say become familiar with and know who his father is. In balancing these questions, which are difficult, this has been a red thread. That's also what Ola T. Loan was about, this is about the truth and the right to know. In addition, in those cases where there is doubt about the fathership, the child is likely to get to know this sooner or later, and I am afraid that there will be a disturbance in these families, even if a third party cannot then go to court. One last argument is the feedback from the hearing bodies on this. And I want to quote the North Hålogaland Bishop's Council, which states that ‘The most important thing is that all parties should have the opportunity to clarify the hazard and that the child should know who is its biological father, even if this may cause anxiety and pain over a certain period of time’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e214	I have no problem joining most of the views of the Council of State. Those are good points of view, in which I know myself well. As the Council of State is aware, it is not stipulated that this law should enter into force immediately, but ‘from the time the King decides’, in practice the Government. I think it is important that we know a little about when we can expect the law to come into force. There are no complex changes and, as the Council of State said, no proposals have been made for transitional rules. It's probably about sending out some forms and some information. I also assume that a job has been done in advance in this respect, as it has been clearly relatively long where the majority in this case is located. I hope that the law will come into force without undue delay, and that it may be a Christmas gift to the people, or that it will come once in January. My question to the Council of State is therefore: How soon can we expect this to be in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e221	There is no reason for the ministry to withdraw this matter in any way. It is right that a work should be done in advance, but as soon as possible in the spring we will have this law implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e226	There is a comment in the position that the Committee's majority is not in favour of. ‘that the best interests of the child must be taken care of when one has lived with a social father for many years and a biological father emerges. It must be the courts which provide for the best interests of the child and ensure that the child is heard’. The Progress Party is not in favour of that comment, simply in the fear that it is proposed here that the courts should have the opportunity to disapprove of the child’s rights under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Because if that is the idea of Norwegian child law, the premises that lie there are already taken care of. I don't see any reason why the committee or the Storting should lubricate the pork on the pork, I kept saying, if that's just the intention. That is why I suspect the majority to have an unknown agenda that will allow the Council of State to take the lead, either in law or in regulation, so that the courts can go in and disapprove of the child's right to have relations with his biological father in the interests of the social father who has existed over time. Will the Council of State cancel or confirm my suspicions on this issue – because if she confirms that that is the case, I think the majority in the Grand Duchy is on the wild. It must never be such that the child’s right to a biological father is weakened in any way, nor is it such that the biological father’s ability to have a relationship with his biological child is weakened. It is already weak enough in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e236	As I know about the majority's remarks, they don't have another or unmotivated agenda. I agree with the representative that the rights of the child exceed everything. It is the best of the child that will apply in all respects, and on the part of the Government, we are in the process of incorporating the Children's Convention into Norwegian law. This is also extremely important. The rights of the child shall be respected. So if I've cancelled this, I'm happy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e241	First, a case report. Not all stakeholders and hearing bodies agree to this proposal. On the contrary, the body which the Council of State itself has to take care of the child's best, namely the Children's Ombudsman, warns against what the government parties are doing now, and supports what the Workers' Party has in its proposal, that there should be a restriction for the third party as to how long it should be automatically entitled to take up a farce case. Of course, there are balances. It is correct, as the Council of State itself said in its first reply, that even when mother raises a case after the child is three years old, or unlimited, and also when the person who has been sentenced to fatherhood raises a case, the social consequences for the child. But there we have weighed down and found that there are strong reasons why that possibility should lie there, especially for the father who may have paid contributions for many years and has been unjustifiably sentenced to a father whom he wants to be clarified with a DNA test. However, I do not understand which balances justifying that the third party should have such an unlimited, automatic right to bring a case up even after the three-year period has expired, why it should not be pressured to reopen the case until the child is three years old. It must be good for the child to clarify this as early as possible. It must be good for those who are involved – mother, who is a father and has put on the fatherhood, and also the child – that this is done early. What are the serious reasons why the Council of State so strongly defends that there should be no restriction of three years, even if, after three years, there should also be a valve in the law to deal with a matter if there are particular reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e250	I have tried to answer the question once before, but I would like to repeat it. First, I want to confirm that it is part of the hearing bodies, as the representative says, that have found it difficult to accept this very amendment to the law. But that's the principle in the matter that makes the government end up at this point of view. It is not natural, as the Ministry and the Government see it, for the best interests of the child to be placed as a third party in a position other than that of the child. the legal parents with regard to the ability to clarify the hazard. Then the child's right is left in every context to get to know his biological origin. Then we want all parties to be equal to this. It has to do with truth and openness. We have balanced these considerations and found that the best of the child must apply, and we believe that this is the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e257	I ask for the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e264	It's just two lines. The representative has every opportunity to register on the list of speakers. The speakers who now have the floor have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e269	Like my colleague, Mr Knudsen, I am pleased that we have come so far as to have a decision on this matter. I'm not going to stand on the pulpit and say that now I get right again. I will not take credit from the Council of State when she stands here and says that the Government is now agreeing to its proposal. I have promoted this proposal in the past. I won't take credit for it. Those who are to be honored are those who sit in the gallery. Here's also the answer to Giske. Gist calls for serious reasons why we have to remove the three-year deadline. There are people who are examples of it in the gallery. I recommend Giske to have a chat with these people afterwards. There's a father in the gallery who's been fighting for 18 years to confirm or cancel whether he was the father of his daughter. After 18 years he finally confirmed it, and it was great joy that he was a biological father. There are also people in the gallery who have paid contributions for 15 and 20 years, who have been denied that they were a father, and who have in some way been illegally paying contributions over such a long time. That's why we have to remove the three-year deadline. It's the one that's been the big problem. If Giske is concerned that we should have a quick clarification, why not set the deadline to two years, why not set it to one or four years? Why three years? I do not understand why the Workers' Party has turned around in this matter. A year ago, it was assumed that the Workers' Party would have supported this proposal, so it is clear that there has been an impact. I don't understand the argument either when Giske tries to say that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are the ones who are always going to keep the family. Clearly, it is the family we take into account. If it's the case that we don't get a biological baby and a biological father together, we're going to split the family. That's what's so important in such matters, that children get to share in their biological family. That is what is important, and that is what underlies these proposals. I hope that this decision will also lead us to take the step fully, because I will challenge the Storting at a later stage. We have to go, I think, towards a mandatory DNA register. It will solve all the problems in this field, both in terms of family and in terms of disease. I hope the Council of State will also take along such a message. At least that will ensure the legal certainty of the individual, and we will learn from history, we will avoid all the judicial orders we have witnessed in such matters. Finally, I do not understand the comment on SV. Is it really that SV values children differently before the law comes into force than after the law comes into force? Is there any difference in the value of those children, whether they should know whether the biological father is present or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e285	To the representative Giske: We think it is important that the truth comes out, because today it is actually so that anyone can destabilize any marriage or cohabitation by claiming that he is the father of the child in the relationship. In contrast to the Workers' Party, we believe that a third party should not only destabilise the relationships of others, but also take the consequences of such a claim by raising the case, so that there is clarity and certainty about the danger, for the benefit of all the parties involved. We want to end by saying that third parties can be allowed over a long period of time to destroy the family relationships of others without even thinking about what is really the truth. Truth is important, not just for the sake of truth, but it is also important for the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e290	I just want to make it clear that the best interests of the child and the rights of the child must be respected. If you've lived with a social father for many years – you can be 10, 15 years when it's discovered that you have another biological father, I know countless examples where father is not a father after 15 years, and where you get a new father – this is complicated. No one in this room or outside this hall thinks this isn't complicated. SV, who made proposals in this joint statement, believes that the child should be taken care of and that the court should decide. That's exactly what happens when a child is taken away from his parents and lives away in a foster home for 10-15 years. We believe that this should be equated, not to deprive the biological father of his rights, but to uphold the child's rights. It's the child who has to decide if he or she wants to move or have relations with his or her biological father – and we want to tone down the biological something. If you have been a social father for 15 years, it is quite important, both for your father and for your child. When it comes to our comment, I would like to make it clear that the child can always raise a case. The rights of the child have been respected. What we're saying, and what happens to this change in law, is that mom and dad and the third person now get equal rights. There is equality between the woman and the man that is now largely taken care of by this change in law. We think that's important. But we've put in this comment that the amendment of the law should not have retroactive effect. Often, changes in laws do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e297	First, to Afghan Rafiq. She says that destabilization can cause a third person in any case – but now you have to be allowed to destabilise with the law in hand. So you don't have to change this law because the mother and the established father and the child who feels destabilized can be told whether the third person is a father or not, because the three people, including the Workers' Party proposal, have an unlimited right to resume that type of DNA testing. But what Afghan Rafiq and Right want, is also to give a third person the opportunity not only to spread words about whether you're a father or not, but also to have the law in hand when you're about to destabilize an established family relationship. That it is an advantage for those who are destabilized, I have very difficult to see. Then go to Per Sandberg. That's not right what Per Sandberg says. He makes the Labour Party's proposal as if those sitting in the gallery, or those sitting around the country, who have been unjustly sentenced to a father for many years, are not now going to have the opportunity to reopen the case with the Workers' Party's proposal. That's wrong. It is also true that the person who believes that he is a father, with the proposal of the Workers' Party, also after three years, has an opportunity to raise the matter. So with regard to the story of Per Sandberg, if someone after 18 years confirms that he's the father of this girl, one with the Labour Party proposal will have such an opportunity. What we mean is that it shouldn't be an automatic right for someone who has gone for three years, seven years or ten years and waited, to get it up. I assume that in this case, too, it was within the three-year period to deal with the matter, so that this had been covered by the proposal that the Workers' Party has made. I don't understand what is the driving force in balancing to the Council of State. It cannot be the child's rights, so the child has the full possibility of the Workers' Party's proposal to reopen a case at any time. It can't be Mother's right, because Mother has the full opportunity to take it up. It cannot be the right of the established father, because he also has the full opportunity, nor can it be the right of a third party to clarify this, because that person also has the opportunity within three years to take up a farce without limitation. But why should you have a right beyond the three years and wait indefinitely until you decide whether you want to deal with a father's case or not? Should it not be in the best interest of the child that it was clarified as early as possible both to the person who thinks he is a father and wants to establish the danger, and to the person who is the child in this case? I can't believe you think you shouldn't have such a constraint, whether you're the family defender or not. But given that you are the child's defender, you should be involved in such a proposal as the Workers' Party promotes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e309	The representative guesses I'm wrong. But one of the reasons we're here today to change the law is actually the three-year limit. It's the three-year limit that's made sure that we've had a series of murders over the last 10-20 years. That's what's the basic reason we've had such stories. What Giske and the Workers' Party are doing is just continuing the law in the sense of today. For today there are also opportunities, with the exception of exemptions, for which Gieske states. I don't want any law that can have a whole lot of holes in all directions. I want a law that respects the rights of the child and the best interests of the child. That's what the Working Party is now trying to turn away. For what are there special cases that should not fall below the three-year limit? Can Giske give me some examples of what is going to be special cases where we can open up that biological father can take a test and get this clarified even after three years? It's going to be a strange farce. Then I would like to – I didn't get any real answer, but now it's likely that for the guilt of withdrawing the debate, I tend to get – I also had answers from the other parties regarding the comment submitted by SV. What do the other parties put in that note? Is it going to be tightened up in relation to biological hazard, or in relation to biological children? This has already been taken care of. SV’s representative says it himself – this is done in Norwegian law. When, in addition, the Council of State confirms that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is now to be incorporated gradually, this will be respected. Why, then, should there be a majority comment that points out that the courts should have the opportunity to disapprove of a biological father's right of access to his children? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e316	Trond Giske has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e319	It would have been an advantage both for the substance of the debate and the length of the debate to deal with the proposals of other parties as they were, and not to present them in another way. For example, we're maintaining it. not the three-year rule in relation to those who have been unjustly convicted of a hazard to which they have paid for 15-18 years without having been given the opportunity to raise the case again. We now give the opportunity to father, like mother, when a child comes into the world, to determine who is the father from a DNA test. These are significant changes, and it doesn't have to stand here and pretend it isn't. That's what Per Sandberg has been standing on the pulpit this time after time in previous sessions and fought for. He has had an impact on this, even with the Labour Party's votes. The only difference is the question of whether the third party should have an unlimited right to raise a case beyond three years. Why don't you have to put pressure on yourself, and that demand, that you deal with the matter before it's been three years? An opportunity to take this up afterwards, in my view, would just be if you were born from the child, all the time claimed that you were the father of the child and never had a DNA test done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e328	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e331	I have read the comments and the proposal from the Workers' Party, and I see no changes, because the opportunities that the Workers' Party says are in that proposal already exist today. It could be interesting to get the Council of State to cancel or confirm it. The problem is what we have been talking about earlier in the debate, that 50 pst. children are born out of wedlock. It's very likely that when the baby comes to the world, Mom doesn't live with Dad. There are a number of examples – we can go back in history – where the problem arises that Dad has not been able to confirm whether he is a biological father at the right time, within three years or within two years. It is just like today's situation, and it is continuing with the proposal made by the Workers' Party. It is not possible for the Gist and the Work Party to turn away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e336	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 159]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e352	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e361	In this motion for a resolution, the Ministry of Children and the Family proposes to amend Law No 8 March 2002. 4 on child-rearing. The amendment concerns the transitional provision in Section 26 paragraph. 3, dealing with child-rescue products which are subject to the rules laid down in Regulation No 13 September 1977. 1 on who shall be entitled to child benefit for children who are not raised by their parents or by adoptive parents. This new law involves a material change in the right to and the disposal of child benefits for children in foster homes and institutions. Under the new law, child-restraint shall also be used for these children for the purposes of the child-restraint scheme. This means that the same rules for the payment and disposal of child benefits shall apply to children in foster homes and child protection institutions as to children elsewhere. In previous legislation, it was suggested that the child benefit for foster children and children in institutions should be used for exceptional expenses and for savings in their own account. The savings were intended to benefit the child later, for example. to education. The majority of the majority of the population joined the proposal to amend the legislation at this point, cf. Inner. O. No 24 for 2001-2002. § 26 nr. 3 of the new law is a transitional provision and regulates the transfer of the child-rescue funds at the time the law enters into force. The provision, as formulated, could have an adverse impact on children under the care of child protection. The reason was that already savings that were intended to benefit the child later could be paid to parents who were not considered fit to care for the child. In order to prevent this, the Ministry of Children and Family proposes to amend the transitional provision in paragraph 26 of this motion for a resolution. 3, in such a way that the child is transferred to the child if he/she is 18 years old or to the child’s guardian. If the child is under the protection of the child, the money shall be put in the blocked account and transferred to the child when it reaches the age of 18. If decisions to take care are repealed before the child reaches the age of 18, the funds saved shall be transferred to the claim. If the child is repatriated to his biological parents before the age of 18, he/she shall be transferred to parents if he/she can count on the funds to be properly managed. The majority of the Committee would stress that the purpose of the family allowance is to contribute to the cost of supporting children. It is therefore important that the right to and the disposal of child-rescue should apply to children in foster homes and child-rescue institutions, as to children elsewhere. In this context, it is important that the caregiver – a child protection institution or a foster home – who has the child living permanently with him/her be entitled to the payment and disposal of the monthly child benefit for the child’s benefit. The funds saved at the date of entry into force of the new law shall not be available for use either by foster homes or institutions but shall be held in a blocked account until the child reaches the age of 18. The Committee thus endorses the Government’s amendment. SV and the Progress Party have an additional proposal that SV will make.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e383	Child insurance is the main transfer scheme for families with children. The purpose of the child benefit is to cover the cost of depending on the child. Child protection is also the most targeted measure for cash transfer to families with children. By amending the Child Welfare Act on 8 March 2002, the majority of the Stortinget amended the rules on the payment of child benefit to children under the care of child protection. The amendment enters into force on 1 January 2003. The same rules apply to the payment and disposal of child benefits for children who are not raised by their parents or adopted parents. This means that foster parents or child protection institutions can now use the child’s medicines as if they were the child’s parents. The child’s rights are paid to the child’s parents or to the child protection institution where the child lives. Social security for children shall be a grant for the maintenance of the child on an ongoing basis. In the past, child-rescue funds for children under the care of child-restraint have been put on a bank account and have been used for large investments, such as: bicycles, clothing for confirmation, etc., in cooperation with the protection of children. The amount that may have been saved in a bank account has been paid when the child has reached the age of 18 and has been an initial capital for children who often do not have a network. Today, child welfare will be allocated to current expenditure by foster parents and institutions, and the child will depend on social assistance when it is 18 years old — usually. The Socialist Left Party will point out that we were opposed to the amendment of the Finnish Code. O. No 24 for 2001-2002. We wanted to manage the child benefit as previously for children who are not raised by their parents, but made it clear that there should be the possibility of simplifying the legislation on the use of child protection in cooperation with child protection. It is unreasonable that child protection institutions and foster parents are now given the unrestricted right to manage child protection. This will not safeguard the child’s ability to use savings of child allowances for an initial amount, e.g.: for studies and housing. The Socialist Left Party believes that children's protection institutions are paid very well by municipalities and counties for those children who have an institutional place. Numerous examples have emerged in recent years, after considering this legislative amendment, that institutions have a million surplus. Obstetrical care also covers current expenses for the child. What is serious is that we do not have an authorisation system for child protection institutions in place, and the supervisory system works too poorly because of the lack of resources at the county level. Here in Oslo and Akershus, the surveillance visits are under 50 p.m. The majority, consisting of the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre, here adopted, is an additional financing of the state budget to foster parents and child protection institutions, and it is at the top of very good transfers from municipalities and counties. Many families place the child’s pension on their children’s books because they have a financial opportunity to do so. The public can afford that too. These children have been publicly accepted and taken over by the authorities, and they are often placed in unapproved offers that are not controlled, and many of the offers are far from good. I was at a confirmation service last year. One of the confirmations was a girl I had worked with, who was placed in foster homes. All the girls there had bundled, and so did she. She probably wouldn't have had that if she hadn't had child drugs on the book. One of these kids is taking away something that many other kids have the opportunity to do; saving money when you're 18 years old. I am very pleased that the Department proposes that those who have saved funds at the time of the entry into force of the new Child Protection Act should be ensured by putting the funds in the blocked account. If not, it would have moved a lot of funds into the system without control. It is sad that this does not apply to all other children who are under public responsibility. The SV will therefore support the proposal that has now come from the Government, which is the committee's position, but we also want to promote our own proposal – that is, the change we made in March: ‘The Government is asking the Government to secure child-rescue funds for all children under care. The funds shall be placed on a blocked account until the child reaches the age of 18 or is administered in accordance with the protection of the child.’;» But SV therefore supports the proposal from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e407	May Hansen has taken up the suggestion she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e410	On 7 February 2002, the Odelstinget Board of Directors examined the proposal for a new child benefit law. The new law will enter into force on 1 January 2003. To a large extent, current rules continue, but emphasis has been placed on simplifying and modernising child-rescue legislation. The new law also involves some material changes. In particular, it concerns the disposal of child-rescue for children under the care of child-restraint services. Under the applicable law, children’s rights for these children shall be used for extraordinary expenses or for savings in their own account. As from 1 January 2003, these specific rules shall be repealed. Even for children who do not live with their parents, child welfare is now to be a contribution to the ongoing maintenance. I am glad that we got the Storting's agreement to this. Child insurance is a general benefit which helps to cover child support costs. We should not have specific rules for a single group of children. It is necessary to provide for a transitional provision regulating the relationship with the child-smokers who are safe in accordance with the rules of the day. Such transitional provision is currently in force, the child’s entitlement shall be transferred to the child if the child is 18 years old or to the child’s guardian. I see that such a rule may have an unfortunate outcome. In most cases, the child’s biological parents are poor, even though child protection has taken care of them. Thus, savings of child-care funds could be paid to parents who are not considered fit to care for the child. Therefore, in order to ensure child-rescue funds for children who are under the care of child-restraint when the new law enters into force, we propose an addendum to the transitional provision. The addition means that the money for these children is put in the blocked account. The money is transferred to the child when the child reaches the age of 18. If the decision to take care is lifted before the child reaches the age of 18, the savings are transferred to the donor, which in most cases is the biological parent. I have taken note of the proposal of the representatives of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal involves, to a large extent, the reintroduction of the provisions of the old legislation on the disposal of baby-smokers under the care of the protection of children. These are, therefore, provisions repealed by the Stortinget as late as February 2002. I am pleased that the majority of the committee has joined the legislative amendment, which I believe will contribute to the maximum benefit of child-responsive child-responsive child-responsive to today's rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e430	That has happened a lot since we dealt with this legislative amendment. There have been many revelations about child protection institutions that work too poorly but have a million surplus. And here's an extra state funding that goes right into the operation of these child protection institutions. We don't have an authorisation system in place, we don't have a supervisory visit in place, the county economy is very bad, and we see now that reports from several statesmen say they're not doing the supervisory function. Can the Council of States defend the fact that these funds now go unrestricted into unsupervised and unauthorised child-restraint institutions? I mean, it's stealing from these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e437	I must first note that the proposal from the Progress Party and the SV does not relate to the legislative proposal we have now submitted. The proposal would mean a change in the law that the Stortinget actually passed in February, which will enter into force in a month's time. I can't stand here saying we're going to reverse a law that Stortinget actually passed for a short time. Second, it's true that there have been some revelations. We have some bad institutions without approval and without quality requirements. That is also why the Child Protection Communication and the Odelstungsproposition on the organisation of child protection are for treatment in the Stortinge. As I know, the Storting will deal with this at the beginning of February. We'll get back to what we're going to do. In the Child Protection Communication, we have no less than 70 proposals from the Government that go on different instruments to improve child protection in terms of the supervisory regime. We also have a proposal on the system of approval and quality requirements relating to child protection institutions. As far as the supervisory system is concerned, we have ongoing work in the Government to improve it, because there is also a need for child protection institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e448	Let me just say briefly that the attitude of the Workers' Party is that children's drugs should follow the child. We basically agree with the Council of State on that. But when that is said, I would also like to say to the Council of State that the Workers' Party has even asked questions in the Questionnaire about this with the supervisory system. Many of the criticisms that have emerged are precisely due to the lack of follow-up of these kids and the lack of control ability. In this way I understand the scepticism of the Socialist Left when such reports come in. But the principle of the Workers' Party is that child welfare should go to the children. If the money is used for bicycles or for armour, they will at least go to the best of the child. That's why we've joined the government's proposal. But I hope now – and there is no time to lose here – that we will have a system that will make it possible for not everyone who has a child protection institution to be suspected. And that's actually the Council of State and the Department's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e458	Like the previous speaker, I am concerned that child-restraint should also be for children, in line with the universal nature of child-rescue, and that it should follow the child. It follows from Section 1 of the Children’s Rights Act that the purpose of the child’s pension is to contribute to the cost of caring for children. In my opinion, child welfare should have no scope beyond the age for which it is paid, and therefore I agree with the change that was adopted earlier this year. As far as the supervisory system is concerned, we have worked well with it. It is not new this year, last year, or in the past, that the county officials have pointed out that they are unable to carry out the supervision of child protection. Some of this I think is due to the fact that we do not have an approval system and quality requirements. Turns out we've had some bad institutions. Therefore, the previous Labour Party Government submitted a proposal to the Stortinget on the approval system and quality requirements. We stopped that case and came back now, because we had to see it in the context of the change in the organisation of child protection. Furthermore, as far as the supervisory system is concerned, some of the problems are that there is a supervision today based on a certain number of supervision in each and every child protection institution, whether it is good or bad. Many child protection institutions know the county officials over time and know they're very good. They have repeatedly said that it would be better to be able to exercise supervision maybe two or three times as much in the institutions that really need it, rather than to have the same amount of supervision – for that is what they are measured for – also in the really good institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e469	SV is fully aware that what we are proposing now is a reversal of the law. We did not promote that proposal when we dealt with the amendment of the law, but we voted against the amendment of the law together with the Progress Party. What has emerged in retrospect, we believe, is so serious that the Storting should think about this once more. That's because this has emerged with a million surplus. What the country is doing now is going in and co-financing child protection institutions that are not working as they should. That's kind of what I'm asking the Council of State for. Does she think it is right that we now go into this and finance it through the State budget, an additional funding for unapproved and unsupervised child-responsive institutions? When the Council of State talks about the supervisory function of the county council: what is perhaps the most serious thing is that there is not enough supervision in child protection institutions. But it is also the case that the supervision of municipal child protection is not guaranteed, because it does not have the resources to do so. So there's something we also have to look at when we're going to treat this over Christmas. I just want to ask, is it reasonable to take this money from these kids? The Council of State also says that this will not apply after the age of 18. But there are quite a number of other children in this country who have parents who have the opportunity to put this money on book. These children get a start-up capital, while these children, who don't have a network, are deprived of that opportunity. And they are also taken away from the enclosure and the bike when this is going to operate monthly in a child protection institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e480	We're not going to have institutions that are so commercial that they run with millions of profits in the future. I think that when we get the new approval schemes and quality requirements in place, it might be that part of these institutions won't be life-driven in the future. We'll get back to that. But we cannot put the matter entirely on our head either. What we are discussing today is not how we are going to finance child protection institutions. We are discussing a transitional rule, a completely different matter than the SV representative here is trying to pull up, namely to reverse a roll-call decision that was taken in February this year. And I do not have the opportunity from this pulpit to say – and not a wish – that we should go back on. This is a matter of child-restraint. It's basically. We believe that child-responsive care should be provided by the children on the way for child-restraints, whether they live here or there. It is not and should not be a financing mechanism for a child protection institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e487	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 159]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e503	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the statements of the Council of State, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e512	The size has previously decided that the revenues of political parties shall be published. This should initially apply to the central parts of the organisations, but it is very important that county and local authorities are also covered by the same rules. In the position we have before us, therefore, an overall committee calls for the law to cover all the organisational elements of political parties. The Committee also wants the law to define contributors as individuals or legal persons. There are two majority in this setting. The party of progress is in both. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, is of the opinion that a requirement should be made for all forms of contributions above NOK 20 000, whether in cash or non-cash contributions, such as: labour input or other inputs that can be valued at NOK 20000 or more. The same majority believe that this change should be more extensive and that contributions from contributors who are or are organisationally linked to one of the main social organisations should also be required to be declared and reported together. This majority would like to signal with this that greater transparency is part of a process to prevent some from ‘buying’ political influence through contributions linked to specific political leadership or specific political issues. This majority has come to the conclusion that a revision of the law requires a slightly more extensive amendment than that contained in the private proposal and therefore promotes the proposals that constitute I and II in the position on this matter. Another majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Progress Party, note that there has been a significant change in the framework conditions for the operation of political parties and that it has been a long time since a broad and thorough investigation of the working conditions of democracy has been carried out. These parties therefore want a wide-ranging selection to review the economic environment of all levels of the political parties. This is stated in II in the vote. With this – although I have a significant part left of my speaking time – I present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e527	It is clear that it is the 'Ally McBeal' and 'Friends' evening, since the previous speeches were so exemplary short. I'll try to follow in his footsteps. We're lucky in Norway. We have relatively little money in politics. Now it may not sound like that the times we discuss the remuneration or pension plans of the representatives of big business, but it is fortunate that most of us have not engaged in the policy of economic self-interest, nor do we need to spend most of our time thinking about it when we work here. We will not spend evenings and weekends, weeks, months and years on 'fund-raising' for the next election campaign. We do not think about money when we vote, we do not suspect whether we have been purchased and paid when we take a position on matters. There are two main reasons for that, I think. One is that in Norway we have traditionally had strong party organisations, membership organisations, which have been involved in both election campaigns and political discussion, and there have been popular movements that have engaged through the parties. I think another important reason is that we in Norway have not had political TV advertising. We see from other countries that have it, that this is a very expensive form of election campaign, which makes the money much more decisive for who wins the election. Nevertheless, I do not think we should be naive – nor in Norway. We see how different interests spend large sums of money on lobbyists, on active influence, on systematically ensuring that decisions that matter much to different economic interests go in the direction you want. And it is often that political decisions are of great economic importance. This may, of course, apply to the matters we deal with these days in the context of the State budget, but it may also be in local policy, bidding rounds, regulation, privatisation projects, etc., which have a significant impact on different private interests. So we see that we have a development where different interests give gifts to the parties we sympathize with. I fully understand that. Anyone who wants to influence politics and has a burning commitment to politics must be free to have the opportunity to help the party with which they sympathize to do well. On the other hand, what I have a little bit harder to understand is when you see people who sympathize with completely different parties give gifts to different parties, and even more so where corporations give gifts to different parties. What parties these companies vote on in elections is an interesting question. I believe that in Norway too, we need a clear regulatory framework for that kind of gift. That is why I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee is in favour of a selection that will go through on a broad basis all the rules covering the economic framework conditions for the parties – it is public support, but also the various private gifts that the parties receive. We also need to be prepared in Norway for a situation where the money may play an even greater role in the policy, so that we are leading the way and have clear legislation. It's a shame the government parties don't agree to reduce such a sample, because I think it can be very positive to get a clear set of rules. We already have a 1998 law requiring the parties to have transparency about gifts and revenues from different interests. It's the most important thing. In addition to the rules on how these gifts are to be given, and for the extent of them, which may be obtained by a sample, the most important thing is that they are transparent. For only when it is transparent can it be known which interests affect the parties, what economic framework conditions may affect decisions. What we've discovered is that there's a big hole in the law that was passed in 1998. The intention that the parties should publish their interests and the gifts given to them is limited to the central parties only. We want from the Labour Party – that is also the background to the proposal – that this should also include the localities. Now we see that all the parties in the committee basically join this. But it is a majority, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, who believe that this should be investigated before making that change. The Labour Party believes that this is absolutely unnecessary. It is fully possible to carry out an investigation and come back with a more extensive amendment of the law later, even if you now close the obvious hole that is there. That's why I think it's sad that we couldn't this evening have passed the law change that also requires transparency at the local level in the parties. Finally, I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e548	Trond Giske has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e551	As the rapporteur has explained, there is a broad consensus on greater transparency about the revenue of the political parties. This requires a legislative amendment and the entire Committee agrees that the amendment should involve the law covering all organisational elements of the political parties. The right believes that we need to be fully transparent about who contributes to the parties. Someone might claim that the Right has turned this case around, but we do not want to underestimate that we voted against parts of the law when it was introduced a few years ago. However, as this debate will also show, today's law has great weaknesses. I assume that everyone in this room agrees, because all parties have a desire to change the law. However, there are legitimate and valid reasons why some have so far not wanted transparency about their support for a party. This may be due to family considerations, to heirs, to the local business community or simply a desire for privacy. However, we recognise that our time requires a completely different degree of transparency in terms of publicity and access to information than before. Of course, the right has nothing to hide, and we're glad that there's now a majority for full transparency. But let me take the opportunity to clarify one aspect: openness and publicity must apply to everyone. That is exactly why the proposal from the Workers' Party Jens Stoltenberg and Hill-Marta Solberg is not good enough. The working party simply does not go far enough in terms of transparency. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united in changing the law on the publication of the revenues of the political parties. These four parties agree on an agreement, to which the rapporteur referred, which ensures that the press and the public are fully aware of who contributes to the parties. Our principles are simple. All contributions from all contributors to all stages of all batches shall be placed on the table. It can't be any simpler. The lot must declare all gifts and contributions. This applies to both cash and all other forms of support. In addition, we believe that there should be a rule for the main social organisations. A party must show how much it receives in support of these powerful social actors together and together. On the other hand, the proposal of the Workers' Party bears the mark of being tailor-made for the Workers' Party itself. They say they want to end the secret of gifts of money to the parties, but when you read the Workers' Party's proposal, you can get the impression that it's a special design not to affect the Workers' Party's special relationship with the LO. On top of this, the National Assembly of the Labour Party has emphatically stated that professional policy cooperation and the links with the LO should be strengthened. I have registered that the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party, Martin Kolberg, believes this strengthening professional cooperation is modern. But openness is also modern. That is why I am pleased that there is now a majority that the relationship and ties between the Workers' Party and the LO must also be visible. As I said, all the parties agree on as much openness as possible. In that case, no one can benefit from the uncertainty that a party has binding agreements with an organisation that is also a major social actor, especially if that party receives at the same time large cash and non-cash contributions from the same organisation. For the right, it is important that the law includes requirements to account for all forms of value contributions above NOK 20 000, whether in cash or other forms of non-cash contributions, including labour inputs and all other inputs that can be converted into such a value. In the online newspaper on 26 November this year, I registered that the representative Giske made a large number that the majority has set the sum of contributions to NOK 20 000 and not to NOK 10 000, as the Workers' Party has proposed. He calls this ‘secretiveness’ and says that the government parties ‘restrict the transparency of the parties’ secret gifts of money from anonymous persons’. With respect to reporting: it is an incomprehensible and unreasonable claim! Let me remind you that when the law on disclosure of the revenues of political parties was passed, the corresponding Danish law was heavily relied upon. The amount limit is therefore taken from Denmark, and I have not heard any arguments, either now or before, that NOK 20 000 should not be a reasonable size. Publication of contributors to the lots is a principle. On the other hand, there is a rather pragmatic discussion of pragmatic considerations. The truth is that the Workers' Party is using this argument to misrepresent its own proposal of real secrecy. If the Workers' Party wanted full transparency – and I believe it is – they must be able to support the majority's proposal that organisations such as the NHO and the LO be included, but they do not. Adoption of laws is also about creating predictability, and it is about having thorough processes where those affected are given the opportunity to be heard. The Labour Party here proposes a change of law right above the table in Stortinget. And what's worse is, they're going to give the law retroactive effect, and it's going to apply to the whole of 2002. Even when the law was introduced, the retroactive effect was given, but the decision was taken in May. The Labour Party is now proposing to take the decision in December. The reality is that individuals, businesses and associations that have complied with current law and that have given money to a county party or municipal party in 2002 will feel cheated. This is not suitable for creating respect for the political system. Another thing is that some party teams around our long-term country and in small municipalities will have to do something they may never have done before, namely to present a comprehensive and audited accounts. It could have been a big challenge for many small communities. With the majority’s proposals, they will now have the opportunity to prepare and set up good practice for the future. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre Party, ask the Government to appoint a wide-ranging selection to discuss, on a broad basis, the financing of democracy, including the activities of political parties and elected groups, and to promote proposals for amendments. Of course, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have nothing against it, but there is already a sample of such work in progress. The ongoing power and democracy investigation 1998-2003 is examining on a broad basis the conditions of the Norwegian People's Government. We want to await the outcome of this work and cannot see the need for a parallel investigation into the power and democracy investigation. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the Right wants full transparency about the revenues of the political parties, and we are very pleased that there is now a broad majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e583	Democracy is kept up by the commitment and excitement that give power – not money! Part of this commitment may be to collect small amounts for election campaigns and similar, but support gifts from individuals in the hundreds of thousands of krona class, as it has become known that it happened in the last election campaign, do not belong anywhere. Jens Ulltveit-Moe wore his gold pants, and from his own pocket he bristled around himself with $100,000 to the right and left – well, a precision: to the games Right and Left. He also wanted a new Prime Minister and dug even a little deeper in his pockets and made a solid contribution to the ‘Voice of a Prime Minister’ campaign. Of course, it's an honest thing to think that the country, or one itself, is better served by a new prime minister. Nor is it illegal to give money to political parties, as long as it is not about corruption. For us in SV, however, it is essential that this happens in transparency. In a real democracy, it is essential that political choices and processes do not occur as a result of transactions that are not open to the public, even if it should be from the LO or the NHO. However, there is a worrying development when strong private investors play a crucial role in the parties’ ability to act. The issue we are dealing with today is precisely about creating openness around the flow of money to the political parties. SV wants full transparency around these conditions. We would like to see a more thorough review and revision of the law, but there is no reason why we should not be able to take immediate action for more open conditions for that reason. Otherwise, we clearly believe that the limit should be 10 000 kroner, and not 20 000 kroner as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will. Sonja Sjøli was very concerned with openness, and then I ask, would a limit of NOK 10,000 give less openness? In an investigation of the law, we also believe it is important that it addresses all levels of the parties, and that it should consider rules for all types of income, both direct money support, and also indirect support in the form of sponsorship, payment for persons or parties. What we want are rules that make it unacceptable for businesses and individuals to change the political landscape through their economic power or ensure that some politicians with such help are elected to parliamentary bodies at the expense of candidates without such additional financial assistance. Then I believe that in that case we are heading towards what I would call American states – and in this context it is not positive. It is absolutely vital for the future of our democratic system that there can be no doubt about the independence of the political parties. There should be a cross-political interest in ensuring a regulatory framework with such a high degree of transparency that there can never be any suspicion that some political parties or politicians receive contributions as a reward for a particular political position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e598	It is of great importance that the political parties show the cleanliness and openness of gifts to their organisations. Otherwise, this could lead to distrust of the political system. Secrets of large gifts and support from individuals, businesses or organisations can create unnecessary suspicions among most people. In addition, it is important to have a law that ensures that gifts to political parties are given back to political decisions. This is why Jens Stoltenberg and Hill-Marta Solberg have taken a commendable initiative. The Christian People's Party supports the intention of the proposers of greater transparency about the revenues of the political parties. We believe that greater openness will primarily benefit the political parties themselves. But the Christian People's Party wants a different arrangement for changes to the laws than the Workers' Party. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, have agreed on a joint proposal that ensures transparency and at the same time takes on board that support for political parties is more than a check or a donation inserted into the Party's account. Loans for labour and office loans free of charge in the context of election campaigns are also aid to parties, in order to take some examples. This too there must be openness around. The majority proposal implies that the Storting asks the Government to submit a proposal amending the law on the publication of the revenues of the political parties. That's a more neat way of going forward. This is a major revision, and it is not satisfactory for such a change to be made by a private bill. In point (e) of the majority proposal, the majority requests that the Government, in its proposal, submit proposals for the submission, together with the parties’ annual accounts, of a declaration that there are no oral or written agreements between contributors and political parties or their representatives at any level. This is a good proposal, which helps to improve the parties' relations with individuals, businesses or organisations that provide large amounts of support while at the same time having strong ideological and political reasons for their support. Such a change will be in the interests of the political parties because it will help to reduce the suspicion of external support to the parties. At the same time, this may discourage the purchase of political influence by contributing to specific leadership or voting. In addition, it is important for the public to be given access to the agreements concluded by different political parties with different organisations. The growing political debate has been a recurring topic in the debate on the failure of the recent elections. I believe that the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progressive Party can help to improve the cleanliness of the revenues of the political parties, thus strengthening the credibility of the political parties and the confidence of the voters in the politicians. It is therefore with enthusiasm that the Christian People's Party supports the majority position of the Committee. So to the majority proposal to appoint a wide-ranging selection that discusses the funding of democracy on a broad basis. In many cases, selection is a useful tool for all aspects of a matter before a decision is taken. But it's always wise to consider what you can get that you don't already have, out of an investigation and weigh it up against what it will cost in terms of public resources. When extensive investigation is already under way on the conditions of the Norwegian People's Government, we believe it is wise at least to wait for this work to be completed before a new one is launched. And if you don't find that the mandate of the existing sample is comprehensive for what you want to know more about, you can ask for a supplement in the mandate. But now a new selection is going to be going to explore the financing of democracy, read: the political parties, and the purpose can well only be to increase party support. But you don't have to drop a sample to get to. So far, this has been arranged at the chamber of the party generals and then followed up by the finance committee. When the sample still comes, it may not be off the road with a closer light. Yes, then we'll look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e624	The centre party is pleased with the initiative taken by Jens Stoltenberg and Hill-Marta Solberg through this Document No. The 8th proposal, and is in agreement with the Labour Party on the proposals submitted to the Stortinget. For the Centre Party, it is important to be able to contribute to good framework conditions for political work and to the full transparency of the funding of such work. That is why we are pleased that a joint committee joins the intention of the proposers of greater transparency about the revenues of the political parties and thus wishes to change the law. We are also pleased that a joint committee states that a new law should cover all the organisational elements of the political parties. The Central Party is also pleased to belong to a majority who today, through the decision of the Grand Duchy, ask the Government to appoint a wide-ranging selection to discuss, on a broad basis, the financing of democracy, including the activities of political parties and elected groups. I myself have acted as a local team leader and I am, today, head of state and alternate of the central government of the party I represent. Therefore, I know from my own experience that an acceptable economy is necessary in order to maintain important democratic processes and popular and widespread influence through the political parties. As I said, acceptable economy and full transparency about the financing of democracy are important to us. Trust that decisions are taken without financial constraints and without the impact of agreements on the outcome is absolutely necessary to maintain broad confidence and understanding of political work. This is why we expect this work to start, and not least the effects of hopefully successful sample work. Against this background, I would like to express my disappointment that the government parties and the Progress Party do not see that parts of this work are urgent and today choose to oppose the proposal of the Workers' Party to amend the law by decision here today. The Central Party, on the other hand, supports the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e633	It was the Left at Lars Sponheim who proposed the existing law on publicity about party revenue. Openness and transparency in public administration and exercise of the People's Rule is an important principle for the Left. That is why we have also committed ourselves to the matter in question, even if we are not on the committee. The left joins the plural comments of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party and their proposals for decisions. The principle contained in this is better than in the proposal of the minority. There is, of course, no difference in principle between cash and performances in the form of paying for campaigns, hiring labour at the disposal, etc. The minority's proposal is, in our view, very unclear at this point. Not least point e in the plural's proposal is an important principle. It is a fact that the political party concludes agreements with e.g. trade unions and in such a way as to bind the freedom of elected representatives to decide on the citizens to whom they are to serve, and no one else. The progress party has used particularly strong words about this, and the Left is not very far away from their assessment of such bonds. We are pleased with the extension and clarification of the principle of openness contained in the plural proposal, to which the Government will come back in a thorough and thoughtful manner. As far as I know, a party that has so far kept secret local contributions above NOK 20 000 has decided to change practice in the light of this case. There's hardly anyone who's looking at continuing a practice contrary to what's a common posture in this room today. The urgent argument to which the minority refers is therefore of little value. Similar to the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, the Left does not see any sense in creating a new selection in this area, as long as the power arrangement takes care of the same theme on a broad basis. We're some people in need of such a review, but this is already done. It has been tried to make a large point of the size of the amount in this case, and that is perhaps what should be a symbol to create artificial dividing lines. The left does not see this as the very big one, but we do not need to change the amount limit that we have previously set, just NOK 20 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e648	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e652	It was the committee leader's posts that made me take a three-minute walk. First of all, if secrecy depends on 10,000 or 20,000 kroner: no, if I have been perceived as such on the Internet newspaper, it is wrong. It's clear that it's positive that the government parties are also going in to have full transparency of NOK 20 000. It's true, as Magnar Lund Bergo says, it's going to be more transparent if you set the limit of 10,000, because then you also include transparency about all the contributions between 10,000 and 20,000, so the logic is pretty clear here. But that's not what's the fundamental core point in terms of transparency. Secondly, the committee leader said that the Workers' Party's proposal was'suitable for the Workers' Party'. There are errors in relation to what the committee leader insinuated that grants from different organisations should not be included. Paragraph 2(5) of our draft legislative proposal states that income accounts shall include information on the following types of income: «Funds from institutions, organisations, associations and associations, as well as from foundations and funds.» The fact that trade union grants were not provided, for example: should be included, is simply incorrect. There should be transparency – of course – if so. But then I also have to say that there is something that is quite open about, I guess it's the Workers' Party's cooperation with the trade movement. Now we're not exactly ashamed that the majority of organizations that have hundreds of thousands of members recommend that the Workers' Party govern the country, that's not exactly something we're trying to stick under the chair. But to the extent that we don't succeed in getting that cooperation out, right or other parties are happy to get it out. It's not exactly a secret. So to what might be at the heart of the matter. When the committee leader says that it is serious that this has retroactive effect, it means that it will not be transparent for 2002 when our proposal is voted down. Because that is what our proposal involves: if what we propose is adopted, the localities of the parties will also have an obligation to be transparent about the grants they have received in 2002. The committee leader cannot both stand and say that the Right are the ones who are now fighting for the most openness, and go against a proposal that will give transparency from this year on. I think maybe it was the cat that got out of the bag here, and you don't want that openness in 2002. If you wanted it already now, you could vote in favour of the amendment of the Labour Party's law. This would not prevent us from going further with more extensive changes, on the contrary, we write in our remarks that we support more extensive changes in the future. But we could have sealed this hole right now. My question to the committee leader is: Will the right now encourage all of its localities to publish, even if there is no change in the law, the contributions that have been made to the law at the central level?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e672	Of course, there is nothing wrong with encouraging transparency for 2002. My point was that a law that should have retroactive effect is something else. I think there are a lot of small party teams that would have problems if they were to present a complete and audited account, as I believe the Workers' Party has submitted. Otherwise, of course, we encourage openness. It was reassuring to hear that the Workers' Party's proposal for Section 2 paragraph 5 also applies to party organisations. But as I see this proposal, it only applies to gifts of money. I can then perhaps be confirmed by the representative Geske that this applies not only to cash but also to other forms of contributions, non-economic contributions such as labour input and other inputs that others have been involved in here, such as offices, free labour assistance, etc.? It would be very good to hear it from this pulpit if it is right that the Workers' Party also believes it with its openness here, and that the accounts should also contain information about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e679	I actually have to admit that I think there's a lot of noise in a case where there's a lot of consensus. The most important thing for everyone here today is to get openness throughout the organization, and that's that agreement. With regard to the Labour Party's proposal, which we support, the Labour Party is able to defend it itself. I have always chosen to believe what is stated in Section 2, paragraph 5, and what is now referred to by Trond Giske. I choose to believe that it is the intention of the Workers' Party. The amount is immaterial, says the representative from the left. Actually, I don't agree with that. In small layers, in small locality, 10 000 kroner is a relatively large amount. The amount and time aspect are the main argument of the Centre Party to support the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e688	Trond Giske has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e691	I am pleased with the committee leader's call that the Right Led should also publish that kind of gifts. The whole thing had its origin in a discussion in Oslo, where Oslo Right fought with his fist and claws against publishing that kind of gifts. I understand that one has turned around, and I hope it will also apply to other locomotive where that discussion might arise. We need the public that this involves. The working party is open to the type of declarations requested by the Right, even in the case of the type of non-economic gifts. But the right is just asking the government to move on with this and investigate. We now come up with a very concrete proposal, which could have been adopted here tonight, to increase transparency. There's no contradiction here. And in particular, I am disappointed in the Left, which is to have all credit for being the driver of the law that came in 1998 – the Left must have, they fought for it. Here one has the opportunity to close a clear hole in what was adopted in 1988, and in addition, to put down a sample that would go through this on a broad basis, and it seems to me to be a pity that the left cannot join in and support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e700	Sonja Irene Sjøli has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e703	I did not get a complete answer to my question to Giske. It is clear from the Workers' Party's proposal that this is about grants, and it is clear that it is about gifts of money. What I was concerned about was why the Workers' Party, when they're too open, and when they're again accusing others of secrecy, then they can't be part of the majority's proposal for non-economic contributions, which I was involved in, including work efforts, free offices, etc. Why should it not be included in this account? That's what probably constitutes the really big sums, and as it would still be kept secret around if the Workers' Party had got a majority for its proposal. That's why I'm glad there's another majority here who want full transparency about all contributions of all kinds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e710	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 160]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e723	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e730	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, Amendment No. 3, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Senterpartietproposal No. 4, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 5, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 6 and 7, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities. 8, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 9-11, by Mr Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, 12-14, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 15 and 16, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 17 and 18, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party The President first takes note of the proposals. 12 and 13, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks for proposals to be made by the Government to ensure that the tax exemption scheme for gifts from the fiscal year 2004 can cover all non-profit and non-commercial non-profit institutions serving households.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to keep the current legislation in Section 8-2 of the Tax Act [[maintenance of escalating and deductions for the construction of forest roads]] These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e854	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e960	The President will first vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law 13 June 1975 No 35 on the taxation of underwater petroleum deposits, etc. The following is amended as follows:Article 3(b), first paragraph, costs of acquiring pipeline and production equipment with the installations which are part of or connected to such a device may be charged in aggregate by up to 10 per cent of the balance per. year.IIThe change in I enters into force immediately and with effect from the 2003 year of revenue.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1073	The President will first vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 June 1998 47 on recreational craft and small boats are amended as follows:§ 4, paragraph 5 shall be replaced by:5. the levying of taxes, value added tax, customs duties and fees relating to boats and boat engines, as well as fees for boat engines.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1224	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1249	Before we go to voting on the vote, the president will vote on some proposals that are not direct alternatives to paragraphs in the vote. It concerns the proposals Nos. 2 and 3, parts of proposal No. 4 and proposals Nos. 5, 7, 10, 17 and 18. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:Article 7-11, first paragraph, point (d), first sentence is replaced by the following:In calculating net income after point (a), a deduction of SEK 200000 is made in the Equation Value.New Article 8-7 is replaced by the following:§ 8-7 Fund provision for owners of fishing vessels Tax payers engaged in fishing activities on their own fishing vessels or renting such vessels to others using the vessel in fishing activities may require deduction of general income for the provision of funds according to the rules of this provision. [[tax laws]] [[1]] [[2]] The provision is limited up to 30 pst. the general income for the year from the activities referred to in the preceding subparagraph. [[3]] Provision must be made for the provision of reserves within the time limit laid down in this Article. [[4]] Amounts deducted under the above provisions shall be added to the taxpayer's income for the year in which the funds are disposed of and not later than the fifth year after the deduction of the amount. [[5]] The Ministry shall provide for the completion and implementation of this provision.IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2003 year of income.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 5-15, new point (m) is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1309	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the first and second subparagraphs of Section 10-12 are replaced by the following: remuneration is fixed at dividends received multiplied by 11/28 of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] [[1]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate:a. [[2]] The recipient of dividends is a limited liability company or assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1(b). Dividends received to active shareholders, so far as the dividend does not exceed the imputed income attributed to the shareholder of the company in the year of income dividends.The second, third and fourth subparagraphs become the third, fourth and fifth subparagraphs respectively.§ 10 to 32, second subparagraph, is replaced by the following: The entry value is set at the acquisition value, possibly with up or down adjustments of an amount determined in accordance with Sections 10-34 or Sections 10-35. [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the event of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37, and the realisation in the event of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share, shall be governed by 11/28 of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company or assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of the unit in mutual funds, or to the realisation as referred to in points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by a taxable person for the share unless otherwise specified.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1350	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 21 November 1952 2 on the payment and collection of taxes is amended as follows: New Section 12A-1 is replaced by the following: The employer who has, or has, been employed on board ships on board is, under the terms of this provision, exempt from the obligation to send settlement of advance payments to the tax collector referred to in the first paragraph of Section 12. [[1]] [[2]] The exemption covers advances referred to in Chapter II of this Act, deducted from wages and salaries and other allowances for employees who are taxable in Norway and who are subject to Law No 26 March 1999. 14 on taxes on wealth and income The employer who will rely on the exemption referred to in the first subparagraph must submit information and documentation, as specified in the form drawn up by the Tax Directorate, within the same time-limits for the payment of advances. [[3]] The form is sent to the tax collector in the municipality where the employer belongs or has his head office. [[4]] The exemption referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply if the taxable person does not provide a tax card or the employer has not otherwise obtained the information shown in the tax card. [[5]] Where the amount of the tax on the equation exceeds the amount of the advance due to the taxable person, the rules of Section 23 of this Act apply. [[6]] Is retained advances under this provision greater than the tax equalised, cf. Paragraph 24 of this Act provides that the excess amount shall be refunded by the employer on the claim of the tax collector after the equation for the employee concerned has been drawn up. Otherwise, the rules of § 31 of this Act apply. 4th@item: inlistbox Amounts less than NOK 1000 per employee shall not be reimbursed by the employer. This provision does not alter the other rights and obligations of the employee or employer under other legislation. [[7]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the authorising officer may lay down detailed rules for the completion and implementation of this provision. Law No. III, 28 February 1997 No. 19 on social security is amended as follows:§ 23-2 new ninth paragraph is replaced by the following:The employer who is exempted from the obligation to send settlements for advances under Section 12A-1 of the Tax Payments Act is exempt on the same terms from paying an employer's fee. The current ninth to the twelfth term becomes the tenth to the thirteenth term. Il Law No. 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:Articles 8 to 11, first paragraph, points (e), (f) and (h) are replaced by the following: [[People's Security Act]] [[tax laws]] as referred to in Sections 10 to 40, which only own the assets referred to under points (a) to (e) and where the income is determined in accordance with Sections 8 to 15.f. shares in companies referred to in paragraphs 10 to 60, which only hold the assets referred to in paragraphs a to f and where the income is determined in accordance with paragraphs 8 to 15.h. [[2]] shares in non-resident unlisted companies operating in shipping.§ 8-11, second and third paragraphs, are replaced by the following: Share in companies referred to in the first subparagraph, e-h must be at least three per cent throughout the year of income. [[3]] The condition in the first sentence applies only to shareholders and members who are companies within the scheme. The public limited-liability company, public limited-liability company and company referred to in point (g) of the first subparagraph must own the ship referred to in point (a) or (b) of the first subparagraph or the share or share of the company referred to in point (e) to (h) of the first subparagraph. Companies referred to in the first subparagraph, e-f, must own ships referred to in the first subparagraph, a or b, or a holding in companies referred to in the first subparagraph, e-f.§ 8-12 shall be replaced by the following:§ 8-12 Loans and suretiesThe exemption provided for in the third paragraph of Section 8-7 of the Share Act shall not apply to loans or guarantees for the benefit of group companies, see paragraph 2. the share law and the general share law § 1-3, outside the scheme. The Tax Act § 13-1 nr. 2 shall also apply to loans and collateral between companies within the scheme. Similarly, for such arrangements provided to or for the benefit of taxpayers outside the scheme of direct or indirect participation in the company, or to the taxpayer's related interests. The tax payer's parents, spouses, spouses' parents, children, grandchildren, cohabitants or cohabitants' parents are considered related.§ 8-15 new second and third paragraphs are replaced by the following: Tonnes' income calculated in accordance with Sections 8-16. [[2]] [[3]] Interest income, gains on the realisation of shares and other financial income, excluding foreign exchange gains and losses, are taxable. The corresponding costs and losses are deductible. However, this does not apply to the gain or loss on the realisation of the share referred to in paragraphs 8-11(d) to (h) of the first subparagraph. Costs and losses after the second sentence that exceed income after the first sentence shall be deducted only from the portion allocated to the company's carrying amount of financial assets by reference to the ratio of carrying amount to financial assets at the end of the year of income. The foreign exchange gains and losses are included in income or deducted according to the same ratio. The deficit after this paragraph is deducted from income after the eighth subparagraph. Deficits generated in accordance with the rules of this paragraph may be carried forward against subsequent income in accordance with the rules of Sections 14 to 6. The deficits resulting from this paragraph shall not be deducted from income determined by the fifth and sixth paragraphs and by the third paragraphs of Sections 8 to 14. The provision in Sections 10 to 43 on the deduction limit does not apply to the determination of income referred to in this paragraph in the case of merchants and members of the scheme, or in the case of members of the scheme holding a holding in companies referred to in Sections 10 to 60.§ 8 to 15 new eighth paragraph is replaced by the following: If a company referred to in Sections 8 to 10 has a liability less than half of the company's equity at the end of the year of income, the difference is considered to be multiplied by a normal interest rate as taxable income. [[8]] The standard rate shall be set by the Ministry and shall reflect the borrowing rate which the companies are facing in the market. The imputed income supplements under this provision are deducted in determining the income or losses referred to in paragraphs 8 to 15 above. 3 first and second sentences.§ 8-15 the last sentence of the seventh paragraph is replaced by the following:The distribution of capital by companies as referred to in Sections 8 to 11h is not taxed.§ 8 to 16 shall be replaced by the following:§ 8 to 16 Tonnes of income Shareholders and public limited liability companies as referred to in Sections 8 to 10 shall, as general taxable income, generate an annual tonnage income for ships and mobile equipment the company owns, calculated by net tonnage at the following rates:0 kronor for the first 1000 net tons, then 72 kronor per. Day per day 1000 net tonnes up to 10000 net tonnes, then 48 kroner per. Day per day 1000 net tonnes up to 25000 net tonnes, then 24 kroner per. Day per day 1000 net tons. Income calculated after the first and second sentences shall also be calculated for contracted ships and mobile devices when the owner is not liable to pay taxes to Norway for the rental of the ship or device. [[1]] [[2]] The provisions of Sections 10-41 and 10-65 apply mutatis mutandis. The Ministry may provide detailed rules for the implementation of this paragraph, including provision that tonnage income shall not be calculated when the ship or mobile device is in storage or out of service for a continuous period of more than three months during the year of income. [[3]] The Ministry may also decide that the lessee shall not calculate tonnage income if the other lessee within the scheme is obliged to calculate tonnage income for the same ship or device during the same period.§ 8-17, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: the Company is not deemed to have retired after the first paragraph (b) if the breach of the conditions of Sections 8-11, 8-12 and the first and second paragraphs of Sections 8-13 is corrected within two months of the occurrence of the breach. Nor is the company considered to have resigned after paragraph (b) of the first subparagraph if the obligation to withdraw, in relation to the nature and extent of the breach, the diligence of taxpayers and other circumstances, would involve disproportionate action against the company. The first sentence and the second sentence shall not apply in the event of repeated breach of the conditions of Sections 8 to 12 and the first and second paragraphs of Sections 8 to 13 within three years of the correction of the previous breach. [[3]] This provision does not extend the time-limits laid down in the fourth and fifth subparagraphs of § 8-11. § 8-18, third to fifth paragraphs, is replaced by the following: Distribution as referred to in the sixth subparagraph of § 8-15, paragraph (a) 3 shall be counted as dividends on the hand of the receiving shareholder, cf. [[4]] §§ 10-10 to 10-13. a. Companies within the scheme may provide and receive group contributions from other companies within the scheme provided that the conditions for the right to provide and receive group contributions under Sections 10 to 4 are met.b. The group contribution paid is deductible for giving under § 10-12 and taxable for recipients under § 10-13. Deductions by donors are limited to net taxable profit as set out below. § 8-15 third and eighth paragraphs.c. Group contributions after (a) which are not deductible from the giver and are provided by non-taxable income are not taxed by the recipient. [[5]] The group contribution referred to in the preceding subparagraph, which is provided by taxable income, is added to the taxable income account of the beneficiary. Group contributions which are not deductible from giving are first considered to be taken from the company's taxed income account, see Section 8-15, fourth paragraph. Companies whose income is determined by: Paragraphs 8-15 may attribute to their taxed capital account an amount calculated at the foreign tax divided by one hundredth of the Norwegian tax rate on general income, so far as the foreign tax rate is less or equal to the general tax rate on general income. If the foreign tax rate is higher than the Norwegian tax rate, the entire income subject to taxation abroad shall be added to the taxed capital account.IVThe changes under I, II and III shall enter into force on 1 January 2003 with effect from the 2003 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1486	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 5-13 is replaced by the following: The advantage of the private use of the employer's car is determined on the basis of an estimated annual private driving distance of 10000 km and the addition of driving between home and work. § 6-12, second paragraph, the first sentence is replaced by the following: The reduction after the first paragraph shall not exceed 50 pst. [[tax laws]] of the estimated total cost of the ticket.§ 6 to 81, first paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: start of month. The spouses are entitled to the same special deduction as a lump sum.Sections 6 to 81, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: As from the month in which the taxpayer receives a preliminary unpaid salary under paragraphs 12 to 16 of the Swedish Social Security Act or a disability pension because the acquisition capacity is reduced by at least 2/3, a special deduction is granted in general income of SEK 2 083 per person. beginning of month.§ 14-43 is replaced by the following:§ 14-43 Depreciation rates Balance of operating resources, etc. [[2]] as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 14-41, may be depreciated up to the following rate:(a) office machinery and similar – 30 pst.b) acquired business value – 30 pst.c) vehicle combinations, trucks, buses, vans, taxis and vehicles for the transport of disabled persons – 25 pst.d) passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, fixtures, etc. [[1]] – 20 pst.e.) ships, vessels, rigging etc. – 20 pst.f) aeroplanes, helicopters – 12 pst.g) plants for the transmission and distribution of electricity and electrical equipment in power plants – 5 pst.h) constructions and installations, hotels, lodges, lodgings, etc. – 4 pst.i) business building – 2 pst. Construction mentioned under h, and i, located in the municipality or part of the municipality as per 31 December of the year of revenue falls within the geographical scope of regional policy instruments managed by the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund and by the counties can be depreciated at a double rate. [[2]] The increased depreciation rate also applies to the balance for construction with such a simple design that it must be considered to have a useful life of not more than 20 years from the entry. [[3]] The balance of such buildings may be amortised by up to 10 p.m.II.The changes under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2003 revenue year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1564	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party – with the exception of Sections 6-19, 6-20 and 6-50. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first sentence of point (a) of the third paragraph of Section 5-14 shall be replaced by the following: The benefit of the redemption or sale of unlisted rights to acquire or sell shares or certificates of basic funds in employment shall be taken as the benefit of work under Section 5-10(b) of the third paragraph: The advantage of the acquisition and subsequent redemption or sale of listed rights to acquire or sell shares or certificates of basic funds shall be regarded as the benefit of work under Sections 5-10. [[tax laws]] The benefit is determined as follows:1. In the acquisition of the right, the benefit is set at its value by the acquisition less the taxpayer's cost of the right.2. When the right to acquire a share or a basic fund certificate is redeemed, the benefit is set at that part of the difference between the turnover value of the share or a basic fund certificate and the redemption price that exceeds the taxpayer's cost of the right and the taxed benefit under paragraph 1. 1 in the case of the acquisition of the court. In the event of redemption of the right to sell the share or the basic fund certificate, the benefit is set at the difference between the redemption price and the turnover value of the share or the basic fund certificate, less the cost price.3. In the case of the sale of the right, the benefit is set at the part of the difference between the sales total and the cost price that exceeds the taxed benefit under paragraph. 1 in the case of the acquisition of the court. The transfer of such a right to the related person is not regarded as a sale within the meaning of this point. In any case, persons with whom the taxable person is related or who is a brother-in-law are included in the ascending or descending line, as well as in the first and second lines. Redemption from the related to other unrelated is regarded as redemption or sale by the taxpayer.4. Amounts taxed by acquisition under paragraph 1 may be deducted from income in the event of subsequent lapse of the right. When the right is exercised in the form of a redemption less than the acquisition amount, it is deducted from the difference between the acquisition amount and the redemption value. Redemption value means, here, the turnover value of the underlying share or basic fund certificate at the date of redemption, less the redemption price. In the exercise of the right of sale at a lower price than the acquisition amount, this is deducted from the difference between the acquisition amount and the sale sum.§ 12-17, first paragraph, is replaced by the following:If the taxpayer's total revenue from undertakings for which estimated revenue is determined would exceed 23 times the basic amount of the people's money [[G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1610	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 10-12 and the second paragraph of the second paragraph are replaced by the following: remuneration is fixed at dividends received multiplied by half of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] [[1]] [[2]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate:(a) The recipient of the dividend is a limited liability company or an assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1.(b) The dividends received to the active shareholder, so far as the dividend does not exceed the estimated person's income attributed to the shareholder of the company in the year of income the dividend is distributed.(c) For that part of the total dividends to the shareholder not exceeding NOK 10000, the initial value is set at the acquisition value, possibly with up or down-regulation by an amount determined in accordance with Sections 10-34 or Sections 10-35. [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the case of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37 and the realisation in the case of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share must be regulated by half of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company and assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of the unit in mutual funds, or to the realisation as referred to in points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by a taxable person for the share unless otherwise specified.IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 14 November 2002.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1653	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:§ 4-12 second, third and fourth paragraphs are replaced by the following: Shares listed on the SME list at Oslo Stock Exchange are valued at the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. [[tax laws]] [[2]] [[3]] Unlisted shares are valued at the share's proportional share of the total value of the tax assets of the limited liability company or public limited liability company on 1 January of the previous year, broken down by denomination. [[4]] Unlisted shares in non-resident companies are valued at the estimated value of the share's sales on 1 January of the Equation Year. The share shall be valued after the third subparagraph when the taxpayer so requires and may be liable to the company's tax asset value.§ 4-13, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: For a limited liability company or public limited liability company formed the year before the Equation Year, the share value is set at the sum of its nominal amount and premium. [[1]] If the formation takes place upon transfer from a personal company to a limited liability company or public limited liability company, the value is taken into account on 1 January of the Equation Year, determined in accordance with the third subparagraph of § 4-12. 32 amending Law No 10 June 1988 40 on financial activities and financial institutions, etc. [[transition of savings banks into limited liability companies or public limited liability companies]] Decision VI, amending Law No 26 March 1999, 14 on taxes on wealth and income [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1694	The other proposals will be addressed under the individual paragraphs of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1784	The Progress Party has notified that they support the suspension subsidiaryly. The President has understood that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1848	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:§ 16-40 with sub-headings deleted.Current paragraphs 16-50 with sub-heading become paragraphs 16-40.IIThe changes under I enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2002. [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1914	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1934	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1972	There is an aberrant proposal, No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6-19 shall be replaced by the following: a deduction may be made either by up to $1350 or by up to $2million of the total salary paid.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e1999	There are two different proposals. That is first of all Amendment No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 6-20, second sentence of the fourth paragraph, may be reduced by up to $1350 in total or by a proportionate part of that amount when the deductible quota is paid for only part of the year of income.» And that's proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]] This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2027	The Committee's position and the proposal of the Workers' Party are then voted on as an alternative. The Progress Party has notified that they support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2049	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 19 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:§ 6-32, first paragraph is replaced by the following:§ 6-32 Calculation of the minimum deduction The minimum deduction is fixed at an amount equal to 27,5 pst. [[tax laws]] [[1]] of the sum of income covered by Sections 6 to 31. The basis of calculation is rounded down to the nearest 100 divisible by. The size determines the lower and upper limit of the minimum deduction. The size may set a specific lower limit on the minimum deduction calculated by and given in income covered by paragraphs 6-31, first subparagraph, (a), (c) or (d) or second subparagraph. Taxes having both the income referred to in the preceding sentence and the income covered by the first subparagraph of Article 6-31(b) are the highest ava) the minimum deduction calculated at a separate lower limit, but without calculating the minimum deduction from income covered by the first subparagraph of Article 6-31(b) or (b) the minimum deduction calculated from total income, but without applying a specific lower limit.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2088	There is an aberrant proposal, No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 6 to 50 shall be replaced by the following: a maximum deduction shall be granted for gifts under this paragraph and the union quota with a total of DKK 1 350 per year.’; We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2107	It is then voted over the setting. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they are opposed to the vote, and the President assumes that the Labour Party will also oppose it? – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2137	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 14 from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:Articles 6 to 60, first paragraph, the following shall be added:Taxes which, for at least 130 days of the year of income, have personally engaged in or engaged in fishing or fishing on the sea or along the coast, shall be deducted by up to 30 per cent of the net labour income of the fishing or fishing activity, limited to NOK 100000.§ 6 to 61, first paragraph: Seafarers shall be deducted by up to 30 per cent of the income on board, limited to NOK 100000. [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2181	The President here will vote on the remaining paragraphs of proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. This applies to Sections 7-11 and 7-12. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 7-11, first paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following:The percentage income is calculated at 1,875 pst. the equivalency of the property on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in point (d). However, for that part of the equation value before deduction exceeds NOK 451000, the income shall be calculated at 3,75 pst.§ 7-12, sixth paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following:percentage income is calculated at 1,875 pst. the proportion of the property's Equation Value on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in paragraphs 7-11(d). However, for that part of the proportion of the value of the equation before deduction exceeds NOK 451000, income shall be calculated at 3,75 p.m.II The changes under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2003.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2224	Then the President will vote on proposal No. 14, from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, in the case of § 16-1. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 16-1 is replaced by the following:§ 16-1 Deduction from tax on the disposable disposable personal taxpayers who do not live in households with others is deducted from taxes and social security contributions where general income does not exceed an amount of SEK 180 000. [[1]] The deduction referred to in the previous subparagraph shall be NOK 1000. [[2]] [[3]] The Ministry may provide for the completion and implementation of this paragraph. Where special considerations so require, the Ministry may extend or restrict the scope of persons entitled to deduction under this paragraph.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2260	The President has understood that the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2321	The President has understood that the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2369	The President has understood that when paragraphs 8 to 2 of the suspension have now been adopted, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will support the transitional provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2379	There is still to be a vote on the proposals No. 8 and 15 to the People's Security Act. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following: no fee is payable when the income is less than NOK 40000. [[People's Security Act]] The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of which part of the income exceeds NOK 40000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2396	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following: no fee is payable when the income is less than NOK 34 600. [[People's Security Act]] The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of the part of the income exceeding SEK 34 600.IIThe change in I enters into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2003. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2419	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2429	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2451	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Heidi Larssen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 3, by Heide Grande Røys on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 4, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 5, from Torstein Rudihagen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party The President will first deal with proposal No. 2, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the consequences of the establishment of a central debt register and to return appropriately to the Storing.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2674	The Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they are going against the second paragraph, point (e), and are therefore voted first above the letter (e), then above the other paragraphs and letters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2724	Here the Right Party and the Left have notified that they are voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e2938	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3029	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3075	Point (c) is amended as follows: 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 99 on voluntary and compulsory schemes for individuals, etc. [[Debt Orders Act]] The following shall be amended as follows:Articles 4 to 8(c) shall be replaced by the following: Tax claimsTax and fee claims that would be the priority of bankruptcy under Chapter 9 of the Law shall be fully covered before payment is made in respect of unpriority claims. [[c]] As a deadline for debt negotiations, the opening date is used, cf. the law here § 3-1.Tax and tax claims arising after the opening date are not covered by the debt regime, unless the claim is a consequence of the debtor having had an excessive advance during the period of the debt regime, which has resulted in a higher dividend than if the draw was correct. Correspondingly, for tax requirements established by decision after the date of opening.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3115	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3157	There is now a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party to § 4-12, third paragraph, first sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 99 on voluntary and compulsory schemes for individuals, etc. [[Debt Orders Act]] the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 4-12 is replaced by the following:A proposal for a debt regime has been adopted when accepted by creditors representing a total of at least 4/5 of the total denomination of the claims covered by the proposal.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3259	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they are moving towards the first paragraph, sixth sentence, and it is only voted above this sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3347	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, to the whole paragraph, and proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian Party and the Left to the Fourth. The proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party reads: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 99 on voluntary and compulsory schemes for individuals, etc. [[Debt Orders Act]] Paragraphs 6 to 2 are amended as follows:Sections 6 to 2. Conversion, cancellation and breach of a debt regime at the request of a creditor At the request of a creditor, whose claims are covered by the debt regime, the right may convert a debt regime if there are significant improvements in the debtor's financial position during the period of the debt regime. If the improvement is the result of the debtor’s receipt of a larger amount, the amount may be distributed in whole or in part among the creditors without the initiation of the conversion proceedings. The right may also, at the request of a creditor, whose claims are covered by the indebted regime, convert a debt arrangement if the debtor's dwelling during the period of the debt arrangement has increased so much in value in relation to the valuation in accordance with paragraphs 4 to 7 that, in the circumstances, it would be unreasonable for the debtor to retain the entire increase in value. If such conversion results in disposal of the dwelling, the debtor has the right to retain sufficient of the sum of sales to obtain another owner-occupied dwelling, such as in terms of size, standard and location, etc. If the debtor has been guilty of dishonesty or has seriously breached his obligations under the debt regime, the court may, at the request of a creditor whose claims are covered by the debt regime, cancel the debt regime. The proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left reads: «Sections 6 to 2 of the fourth paragraph are replaced by the following: If, within five years of the end of the period of the debt arrangement, the debtor receives inheritance, gain or similar materially, the right of use may, at the request of a creditor, whose claims are covered by the debt regime, set aside the debt regime in whole or in part to the extent that the debtor’s economy and the consideration of the creditors so warrant. The debt regime may not be set aside because of the gain due to the increase in the value of the dwelling.» The President will propose that the vote be taken first on the proposals and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3411	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 99 on voluntary and compulsory schemes for individuals, etc. [[Debt Orders Act]] Paragraphs 6 to 4 shall be replaced by the following:Sections 6 to 4 The debtor's obligation to disclose to the debtorsIf circumstances arise which the debtor understands or must be understood to give the debtors the right to conversion or infringement under Paragraphs 6 to 2, the debtor shall, within a reasonable period of time and, as a general rule, within a period of one month, inform the debtors and the negotiator accordingly in a secure manner.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3539	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3549	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3560	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3567	During the debate, Mr Giske put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3628	For § 6 there are different proposals from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 6 The change in the dangers of §3 and 4 in the courts shall be replaced by the following:The child and each parent may always bring an action on the dangers of marriage or employment. If the child is unauthorized, the matter is raised by an accommodating court. If the child is 15 years old, he cannot raise a case without the consent of the child. When there are particular reasons for this, the County Iron Agency may raise a case. Whoever thinks he's the father of the child can until the child reaches the age of three raise a case about the father. The case must be raised within one year of the date on which the applicant was aware of the information, however, so that the time limit is calculated at the earliest from the date of birth of the child. The Court of First Instance may, in its judgment, derogate from the three-year period where there are particular grounds for so doing.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3672	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3682	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3689	During the debate May Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to secure child-rescue funds for all children under care. The funds shall be placed on a blocked account until the child reaches the age of 18 or is administered in accordance with the protection of the child.’;» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3732	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3742	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3749	During the debate, Mr Giske has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The President will first address the proposal's B, which reads: ‘B.The Government asks the Government to assess whether there is a need for further measures to ensure full transparency of the revenues of the lots, including whether contributors should have an autonomous obligation to disclose the contribution.’;» B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3770	You have an alternative proposal from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A.Decision to the Act amending Law No 22 May 1998 30 on the publication of the Law on Income of political parties II of 22 May 1998 No. 30 on the publication of the revenue of political parties shall be amended as follows:§ 1 shall be replaced by the following:Policy parties registered under Sections 5 to 1 of the Election Act which have been listed as last elections, state or local elections, obligations to produce annual accounts of the income of the main organisation of the party, county and local authorities.§ 2 shall be replaced by: The income statement shall include information on the following types of income:1. Public lot aid2. Quota revenue3. Subsidies from individuals, enterprises, lotteries, collection actions, etc. and full and partial coverage of expenditure on behalf of the lot4. Interest receivable5. If, for the financial year, a lot receives one or more grants which together exceed NOK 10 000, the amount and the name of the grant-holder shall be entered in the accounts.The accounts shall include information on the total amount of anonymous grants and on the amount of each grant exceeding NOK 10 000.§ 3 shall be replaced by:The income statement shall be made for the period from 1 January to 31 December.The accounts shall be signed by the chairman of the party, county or local authority, shall include a statement that the party has not had any revenue other than those indicated and shall be approved by the statutory auditor.§ 4 shall read:The accounts shall be sent to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or to the Municipal Council no later than 6 months after the end of the financial year.IILove shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the financial year 2002.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower-2.ana.ud915e3887	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, II and III are to send the Stortinget.
