ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e45	The representative, André Kukkestad, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. From the Workers' Group there is an application for welfare leave from the representative of Aud Gaundal from 22 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Jon Olav Alstad, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e68	Depending on how much is left of the debate at 5 p.m. 15, the President intends to continue the meeting beyond the regulatory time to be completed. But as I said, it depends on how much remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e82	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 240.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e99	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies from main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e104	We all have to admit that we're not in the only right explanation for what's going on in our world. And it goes without saying that any decision and any action is obsessed with uncertainty. We feel that the situation is very dramatic. That's why we should all refrain from reconstructing disagreements. I did not feel that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not clear on the aspects of international law in his statement, as comments made yesterday. He was ready for this. When you say the opposite, it has to be because you want to maintain your party policy here at home instead of dealing with the difficult job Norway now has in the Security Council. It is difficult for me to see that the Storting can interfere directly with the negotiations that the Government's people are involved in in the Security Council. It's only when everything's on the table and we know the final positions of the other members that we can give a advice. Even though most of it is obsessed with uncertainty, it must be right to stand firm on something. Terrorism cannot be accepted. Forgiveness is dangerous. On the other hand, military power must only be used when diplomacy and politics no longer work. In Afghanistan, there was no one to run diplomacy. The Taliban was not a rational government with which to negotiate. In addition, the counterparty was a network which was neither known nor known where it was located. I would warn against putting up military efforts against humanitarian efforts in this country. Without military intervention, humanitarian efforts would not have been possible. It's created a better situation in Afghanistan, because we intervened with military resources. The international coalition can only be accused if it does not honour its commitment to help rebuild the country and protect the civilian population until the situation is safe. Then to Iraq. We had to resort to war to get Iraq out of Kuwait. We could not sit and watch a country be invaded and integrated into Iraq. It was also not acceptable to sit tafat and see that the Kurds in the north and the Shia Muslims in the south were attacked, among others. with chemical weapons. Therefore, the grounding zones were established. And it's worked. The Kurds have been protected, and they have experienced a great deal of autonomy. The peace conditions with Iraq after the adventure in Kuwait were unambiguous. Weapons of mass destruction were to be abolished. The UN should have the right to inspect if this was followed up. The resolutions were adopted under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which provides for coercive action by reference to international peace and security. We all know what that means. The international community cannot give up on this. But at the same time, it is important to be aware that Iraq is not Afghanistan. And I would like to stress this: the Arab population lives under tyranny, but it must not make us underestimate their national feelings and make us not see the world from their point of view. When we talk about crusades in the West, we can't forget the destructive effect of corsticogens on the Arabs. It is true that the Arab countries have held the Palestinians as negotiating cards every year and really not done much for them. But for the Arab population, this is overshadowed by the fact that the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories is within the fourth decade – contrary to international law. And furthermore, the occupation continues, while the use of power is being demanded against Iraq. There is also talk of using power to get Saddam Hussein out, while countries in the region that are going to be involved in this, are not much better in terms of human rights. This is a situation the Arab people do not understand, and they take sides for their own leaders, even if they would prefer to get rid of them. And here I come to the most important point, namely that the conflict between Palestinians and Israelis keeps this entire continent in a state of stature that leads to underdevelopment. The Arab countries continue to adhere to outdated regimes, because leaders can channel frustration against Israel instead of against themselves. Israel is sinking more and more into a war economy, committing all the moral outrages an occupant can do. Peace could pave the way for a new situation. Just as the fall of the Berlin Wall led to a revolution across large parts of Europe, peace could create a social revolution in the Middle East. The conflict between Israelis and Palestinians is a barrier to change in this region, as the Berlin Wall hindered change on our own continent. Can the Middle East conflict explain the violence in Indonesia? No, not directly, but it jumps out of the same: the collapse of the old ideological contradictions of the cold war created the need for new identities and created new dividing lines. Now ethnicity and religion became the focal points – against modernity and globalisation. Since poor people have got nothing special out of globalisation and see the symbols of the modern world only in the form of skyscrapers and luxury cars from their gazebos or log cabins, some of them are looking for people who will violently stop what they perceive to be the globalization of the West. Global information flows spread such ideas from continent to continent. What has gathered the Muslim part of the world has been the situation of the Palestinians, the occupation of their land and the third most holy mosque of the Muslims, that is, the one in East Jerusalem. Just like the Berlin Wall was the border across all borders, which not only divided Germany but divided a whole world into two, the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians is the conflict over all conflicts – the conflict that divides a whole world into two and creates a deep and unhappy scheme between the West and the Muslim world. The Labour Party has supported the fact that we had to stand up to terrorism from the very beginning. There is no possibility of yielding. But this is not the same thing as going to war in all situations. War is the last way out. We therefore believe that Norway should work for consensus in the Security Council and that Iraq should be presented with clear conditions for the work of the weapons inspectors. It is important that the Security Council has control over this from the first to the last step. At the same time, Norway needs to press for a new approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Prime Minister Tony Blair has seen this connection. In his speech to the House of Commons, in which he explained his line to Iraq, he made clear his message: we are not getting rid of terrorism until negotiations are reopened that could lead to a Palestinian state. Now we have to ask what you're going to do with this. We must demand an overall grip on the situation. We have recently experienced the bombing of a shopping mall in Helsinki and the terrible terror in Bali. Suddenly, terror came close to us, because Helsinki is closer to Norway, and in Bali it was the North. Then such actions became no longer a common phenomenon, as the terrorist attacks against Israel have unfortunately become, which is now only subject to some flickering on the Dayrevue every single time it happens. When it happens in our vicinity, we get so close that we start to understand what it really is about, what terror does to people, and why it has to be combated. We need to understand the roots of terror in order to get the right grip. But we also need to understand the effects of terrorism. I'm afraid that the world is now divided into religions and regions that only understand themselves and their problems. Then we're on the edge of the dot. Norway must try to understand what is happening on both sides. It has been our task, and it should still be our task, also in the operational matters to be carried out in the Security Council. I would like to end by saying that it is important that we try to maintain a high degree of national consensus on this now, because only then Norway has the opportunity to do a good job in the Security Council. The Labour Party will, as far as we can, contribute to it, as we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e156	The representative of Jagland kept as usual in foreign policy, a very good and reflected post. I must honestly admit that there were many good points to put on your heart. I still want to challenge Jagland on one point, and that is the link between the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, which is seen as a barrier – certainly rightly – and among other things. the solution to the Iraq question. Could it be that getting a solution on Iraq, which I consider to be a problem, can also break down a barrier, that Iraq itself is a barrier? Information provided to the US Congress showed that Iraq supports terrorist groups around the world in various ways, including: also in the Palestinians. That they have a motive for this should also be clear. Thus Iraq acts almost as a party to the conflict and contributes to the extension of the intifada and the problems associated with it. Can the representative Jagland comment on something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e165	Morten Höglund touches here a very important dilemma. In my opinion, it is obvious that these violent regimes that we have had and have in the Middle East, among other things. is one of the reasons why it has been difficult to reach a peace agreement that allows Israel to feel secure. Security for Israel is the basis for freedom for the Palestinians, and vice versa. But as long as you have this environment that we've had for decades after decades, it's hard. Therefore, it is clear that a different regime could be created in Iraq, it would improve the entire security situation in the region. What you can also see is that this conflict between Palestinians and Israelis is now not a conflict between two sides, but really two sides on each side. On the Palestinian side and on the Arab side, there is a grouping that is now in the driver’s seat, which has never recognised the Oslo Agreement and which has never recognised the Palestinian authorities, and they have undermined it by means of terror. On the Israeli side, there are now people in the driver’s seat who do not recognize that the occupied territories are Palestinian. These play against each other, and that's why we've got this unfortunate situation. It is clear that a change in Iraq would absolutely be of the good in all areas, the question is how we are going to get there. And there I'm not convinced that starting a war now will lead to a better situation. We have poor experience of replacing regimes from the outside. Bin Laden was supported to remove the Soviet regime in Afghanistan, but was given the Taliban. You intervened in Vietnam, but you got something quite different from what you thought. So it's not that easy to replace steering sets from the outside. It should come as a process from within, and the question is how we can help with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e172	It is a pleasure to note that there is nothing in the post of the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee that I feel neither the urge nor the need to argue against. On the other hand, I feel a certain need to emphasise further what Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland opened and concluded his speech, namely the value and importance of the fact that there is a maximum total collapse behind the main lines of the foreign policy that the Government is leading. In this context, it is timely to underline the role-sharing between government and growth which the Basic Law is gnawing and which Iland has clearly stated in its introduction. It is also important, in my view, to stress that when we from Norway often criticize other countries for using foreign policy for the purposes of domestic policy, we must avoid falling for the same temptation ourselves. There are two things I would like further clarification from the representative of Jagland. The first is that this also places specific leads on which cooperation constellations in Norwegian policy are natural. It's at the moment to discuss hypothetical government cooperation. I assume that the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs agrees with me that foreign policy must be one of those areas where it is essential to clarify that there is consensus, if government cooperation is to be possible. The second question concerns the overall grip that Thorbjørn Jagland outlined, and on which the situation calls. It is easy to agree with him, but I have missed an attempt to operate on what this whole operation involves in today's situation. What overall grip on the situation is Thorbjørn Jagland having in mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e181	What Inge Wohnning said about cooperative formations in Norwegian politics only makes me say the following: I believe the reality now in this very tense situation is that the Workers' Party and the Government must try to pursue the same policy, because there is no possibility, as I see it from other parties, that the Government can rely unilaterally on the Advancement Party. Nor is it possible to rely on the SV and the Center Party, so if you are not able to hold together on the basis I mentioned, it will not really be a Norwegian foreign policy line. In that case, it will bring us out into a complete mess, and I have it all the time in my head when I speak on behalf of the Workers' Party. There is therefore no other way of establishing a majority for a responsible Norwegian foreign policy line – at least when we sit in the Security Council, but also after that. So to the overall grip and what it means in terms of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. When Tony Blair went out so strongly and said that before Christmas one should make sure to start final status negotiations with a view to leading to a Palestinian state, and he also mentioned where what the so-called Quartet had come up, this should be it seized. But you now have to get the permanent members of the Security Council to do something more than to put words on this issue as well. It would be a great advantage for more people to be able to follow this up when dealing with the current situation in Iraq in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e188	I am pleased that the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee is speaking warmly and well for the UN. We're getting a lot of signals that Norway as a small state in the long term will be most likely to gain more power from the United Nations. Some – and even from defence – go so far as to say that Norway’s security is threatened by, for example: to participate in the Afghanistan War. There is a difference between contributing to peacekeeping operations and participating in offensive operations without or with a weak UN mandate. We see that the Middle East does not have the same rules for everyone. The Israeli-unlawful occupation of Palestinian territory does not arouse the same anger or zeal after acting as Iraq's violation of UN resolutions does. There is little doubt that one of the reasons Saddam Hussein is unlikely to be popular on the grassroots in Arab countries is the fact that the Palestinians daily become embellished by the occupation of Israel. This is something that has been made possible through American financial support. For more than 50 years, the United Nations Charter has been fundamental to ensuring peace in the world. If the United States goes to war without a clear UN mandate, it is a threat to the UN itself. If it happens that the United States is looking into its new foreign policy strategy, international law and alliances could be threatened. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs Halvard Lange once said that Norwegian foreign policy must always allow the UN to take care of everyone else. Does the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee think that this is a principle that is being followed up well enough today, and should it also apply today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e199	It's a matter of course for me and the Workers' Party, and I think it's for everyone else in this room, that an action without any UN mandate is not relevant for Norway to participate in. This has been a line every year, and it will be now as well. When you talk about a US operation without a UN mandate being a threat to the UN, I agree with that. But you don't have to keep having the discussion on the basis that it's going to be the case. It's actually like now that you're working to arrive at a United Nations mandate for what's going to happen further. That is what was Bush' clear signal in the UN's main assembly. We have to work on that basis. When asked whether Norway follows well enough up the line we have had, in our seat in the Security Council, I would like to say that one must be aware that the Security Council, according to the UN Charter, is responsible for world peace and security. The UN Member State has left that issue to the Security Council. We're acting on behalf of all the members of the world, and it's clear that you can't sit at home and have preconceptions. You have to have some clear principles, but you also have to be in a process in the Security Council. We must also take into account the fact that there are five members of the Security Council who have been vetoed. We can't act like them. We may have clear opinions in a negotiating position, but we don't know if those opinions will hold to the seventh and last. We can affect all five permanent members, but we're not sitting to the seventh and last with a veto. That is why we need to act differently and be in a process where, on behalf of all the other UN Member States, we take our responsibility seriously within the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e210	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e214	First of all, let me thank Mr Jagland for his clear response and clear confirmation that he considers it vital that we are able to maintain the predictability and stability of Norwegian foreign policy on the parliamentary side as well. Indirectly, there was also a clear answer to my second question, namely that it put some of the speculations about majority governments that have been promoting lately, in the right light. 100 pst. participation in elections is remarkable. 100 pst. opening up one candidate is even more remarkable. One could be tempted to comment on it by saying that it must have been an intolerablely exciting count, until the last voice was in place. If this had not been so tragic, it would have been only comical when it was sent out news bulletins from a country, of the kind we have received from Iraq in the last days. It is deeply tragic because it illustrates the current dilemma of the Security Council, namely that one is faced with a regime that neither sends nor receives at the wavelength of the mind. And then you face the difficult challenge: what wavelengths do you have at your disposal when it is not possible to get along the path of understanding? There's no new dilemma. The whole history of humanity is full of examples of the same dilemma. The ancient Romans formulated it in their own way when they formulated the saying: If you want peace, you must prepare war. That is, you have to be willing to and able at any time to put the power behind words that make regimes that don't shoot anything is able to perceive that it's serious, and that it has a cost to go forward in the way that dictatorship regimes unfortunately do too often. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made clear what has so far been the position of the Norwegian Government in the negotiations taking place in New York, both on stage and behind the scenes. It is a pleasure to note that Thorbjørn Jagland gave his full and whole-hearted support to the line chosen by the Norwegian Government, trying to do what we as a member of the Security Council can to help achieve consensus in the Security Council, that is. build bridges between the manifestly different opinions that are present also among the five permanent members of the Council. This means that in the process one should not get involved in hypothetical discussions about what might happen after the next turn. It also has little to do with a large number of whether the Security Council should adopt one or two resolutions. Neither the resolutions nor the weapons inspections are anything but an instrument to achieve the overall objective of ensuring that Saddam Hussein does not possess weapons of mass destruction that could endanger both his own people, the region and world peace. To achieve that goal, efforts must be made to achieve the widest possible consensus in the world community. At the same time, it is vital to avoid the narrowing of the perspective of the fact that, because there is one thing that is currently at the top of the agenda in the Security Council and in the international debate, attention is lost to all the other conflicts and all the other foreign policy challenges we face. It is true, of course, that there is a link between the unresolved conflict in Palestine – the Middle East and the crisis in Iraq. Of course, if it's right to characterize the Middle East conflict as Thorbjørn Jagland did, as ‘the conflict over all conflicts’, there can be some discussions about, but there will be easily theoretical discussions. What is obvious is that as long as the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians is stuttered, or even moving further away from a conceivable solution, it is a serious problem for the whole world community. There is well reason to express a wish that the US government in the future will engage more strongly in the Middle East conflict than it has been willing to do so far. One can understand the reasons why restraint has been shown, based on past experience in trying to resolve this conflict. Nevertheless, it is a very heavy responsibility of the US government in this context, because it is the only government in the world that has the opportunity to push solutions forward in a locked situation. In my opinion, it should be an important task for Norway, as we have the close cooperation we have with the United States, to bring this into our ongoing communication with the United States. We should also stress from the Norwegian side that we are willing, on our side, to do what we have to do, in order to contribute to such possible attempts to bring a locked situation into a constructive direction. What is the serious criticism of both the Palestinian authorities and the government of Israel in this situation is that none of the parties to the policies that have been followed so far have helped to improve the situation of their own people. So far, none of the parties have pursued a policy that has made people feel safer and believe in the future. It must also be a key task for Norwegian foreign policy to contribute to the capacity to bring this situation about. Finally, a brief comment on the part of the Foreign Minister’s statement on Afghanistan and Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan. It is often presented as if the issue of Afghanistan is whether to focus most on humanitarian action or to contribute to the military side of the operations. It is, in my opinion, a completely false problem. The fact is that the humanitarian response in Afghanistan would not have been possible at all, would not have been present at all if it had not been due to the military intervention last year and that it would not be possible to continue the humanitarian response in Afghanistan if the military capacity was not in place to provide the necessary back coverage and the necessary security to enable the humanitarian response to continue. I would therefore ask that we let go of the kind of simplified issues in this debate that it concerns either humanitarian action or military action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e237	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e240	I think I'm not going to draw the start of Inge Wage posts as far as it might be tempting to do, because he could easily be understood there that it is legitimate to threaten any dictator and despot in the world with military attack and war. I think that's drawing Inge's pay and Right's vision too far. But we are in that situation with regard to the discussion on Iraq, that one has to clear up the arguments. Saddam Hussein is a despot. He has been there for many years, even when he was supported by the West. He's also a very brutal dictator, but there's not a legitimate reason enough to threaten military action or to threaten to attack any country. On the other hand, there is a legitimate reason for the UN to press Saddam Hussein for disarmament and the destruction of weapons of mass destruction. I would like to hear whether Inge Wohnning agrees with me in that clearing of the argument. We are now in a very dangerous situation for the world, because, under the Bush administration, the United States is moving on its way and alerts alone in relation to Iraq and in relation to other wars and crises. As long as you can count on the UN Security Council to join in, it seems like the United States is going to follow suit, but if not, they're warning alone. What's the Right's opinion about such a world order, where power, and power alone, is what's going to decide? The next question is: In the context of the text of the resolution currently available, there is a demand from the United States that the veto acts be entitled to participate among the weapons inspectors. Does the Right believe that it is legitimate for the vetomaks to have special rights in the UN regarding the deployment of weapons inspectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e249	I see no reason to go into a discussion about texts of resolutions that so far are not available in any pre-submitted form at all. I also do not think that there will be any particularly helpful contribution to what is going on in the Security Council, whether we from the United Kingdom are going to start discussing the details of possible resolutions. As for Kristin Halvorsen's attempt to clean up, I'm of course grateful for that, even though I don't see any urgent need for cleaning up. The whole argument in my post provided that in the Norwegian context there is full agreement that this matter is a matter for the Security Council and for the United Nations, that it is where it belongs, and that it is where it will continue to hear at home. There should be no doubt about that. I think it would be an advantage if we concentrated the energy at that point, to make ours stay there, that is. that the Security Council is able to show itself to the task of adulthood and to ensure that the demands made by Chapter VII resolutions for almost ten years are really met by Iraq. No, I don't think it's any ordinary sport to threaten military power against dictatorial regimes. Dictator regimens have been and will be present. It's not where the problem lies, nor when it's as absurd as Saddam Hussein's regime does. The problem is that this regime, unlike other dictatorships in today's world, has repeatedly demonstrated that it is not just capable of generating illegal weapons. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e258	The aim is to ensure the widest possible consensus on Norwegian foreign policy. At the same time, it does not relieve any of us of a responsibility to make maritime assessments. I believe that, in foreign policy, it must be important to raise your eyes and think completely, and not based on one day-to-day thinking, for which I felt that the representative was the spokesperson. One of the things that complicates the handling of the Iraq issue is that we see a more eccentric United States, which has presented a new national security strategy that has preventive attacks as a core. It surprises me that this relationship was not mentioned either in the foreign minister's posts yesterday or in the representative's pay statement today. My question to Inge Wohnning will be if he sees these connections. Does he see that the new American strategy complicates the handling of Iraq? The question is also whether the Right believes that a strategy based on preventive attacks is a dangerous path in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e265	The representative Haga, as far as I know, has a background from diplomacy, and with that background, it wouldn't be a completely foreign idea that the way is going, and that you have to take one step at a time if you want to achieve at all some things in the real world. Of course, one must have overall objectives and principles. My main point was that I still hope that there is a broad consensus in Norwegian policy on what are the overall objectives of today's situation regarding the handling of the Iraq crisis by the Security Council. Then, of course, you can have different opinions about which routes give you the greatest chance of reaching that goal in the shortest possible time, and it can be discussed meaningfully. On the other hand, I don't think the Norwegian big business should define its task as being to design neither the U.S. foreign policy nor to be a sensor over the U.S. foreign policy. The Norwegian economy has a primary task in relation to Norwegian foreign policy, and Norwegian foreign policy can, of course, influence both the US and other countries in a positive direction at happy times. But if we're going to achieve that goal, we might have to relinquish the second role that's much easier to play and much more grateful to play, that's to act as a sensor, and as the character of other countries' foreign policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e272	I have to say, I think this is a hairdressing discharge. Now the representative Inge Wohnung has concentrated for many minutes on saying nothing about what should be the Norwegian attitude, or what should be the Storting's perception of how the world is now developing. It is to disclaim the responsibility to have any opportunity to influence how to proceed. It is not such that it is unheard of that Norwegian Storing is discussing what is now happening in the Security Council. It is discussed in all other countries, except Norway. It must then be that there are more than SV and the Central Party who are concerned that it is developing a precedent if the United States can now trump through the fact that they have an opportunity to stand alone against the powers they do not like. It can create precedents for many other countries, and it makes Norway, as a small country dependent on an international world order, come into disrepute. It is a dangerous development for Norway and all other countries that are very dependent on having an international world order. Doesn't the Right have any meaning in that? Does not the Right have any idea that that situation will be dangerous for the situation in Iraq and that handling, but also for how the United Nations is developing, and for how the United Nations' ability to manage actions is undermined, because we can get into a situation where power – and only power – lies in international policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e279	If Kristin Halvorsen is worried that it's just the Center Party and SV that are worried, I think I can help her to at least get rid of that concern. The vast majority of us are deeply concerned about the world situation and not least about the acute crisis that is currently in the Security Council, which has many perilous moments. But those dangers are initially completely different from where Kristin Halvorsen tries to place them. The main danger is that the Security Council is unable to solve the task that the Security Council has undertaken, because it will undermine and weaken both the Security Council and the United Nations entire authority in the longer term. That would give us all good reason to be concerned. That is why I believe that Norwegian foreign policy should concentrate on the task that exists here and now, with regard to the Security Council and our membership of the Security Council, namely to do our part to promote a process that can create consensus in the Council and that can make the use of military power unnecessary to resolve what is to be resolved in Iraq. It will be the very best contribution to constructive development also of American foreign policy. I have very little faith that it affects American foreign policy in a positive direction that there are enough individual politicians in Europe and elsewhere who feel the urge to stand up on the square and use capital letters to tell the Americans what they should not do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e286	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e289	The dictatorship regime in Iraq has for years now proved to be a threat to the outside world. It has been shown, among others. in the case of warfare against neighbouring countries and terrorism against their own populations. Saddam Hussein governs by means of threats and violence and has managed to create a fascist terrorist regime. Since Iraq was forced back from Kuwait, they have almost consistently chosen to counter the demands of the world community. It has almost become a goal for Saddam to show his independence and strength. Now you can say that they have succeeded at home if you make a 100 pst election. support in the form of good political craftsmanship. But rather, this is also an extreme testimony to how a dictator cynically uses, or rather abuses, his own population. Iraq has not unindeededly ended up in the situation they are now in. It has completely put Iraq on its own. Iraq has, after the invasion of Kuwait, chosen the line of confrontation. Instead of accepting the UN's demands, Saddam Hussein chose a different course, and it has taken Iraq where they are today. The UN has been patient, very patient. For years, there has been an attempt to put pressure on Iraq through, among other things. sanctions and diplomatic work, without success. Iraq has been able to build weapons of mass destruction almost in peace. The Progress Party is pleased that a solution is now being sought through the UN Security Council. Like the Government, we are concerned that weapons inspectors are now given unrestricted access to all facilities, and that we are really getting an overview of what Iraq has of the weapons of possible injury. The resolution now under discussion in the UN Security Council must also say something about the consequences if Iraq once again chooses to counter the inspectors. If that doesn't happen, I'm afraid Iraq will once again be able to buy time and create uncertainty and again be able to cheat away. So our advice is that we get a resolution or at least a parallel process with demands for unimpeded inspection and consistency if not. A two-stage process with a resolution now on inspection and possibly one later if Iraq does not cooperate, we do not have faith in it. It won't, as we see it, give better results than what's been achieved so far, and we're equidistant. We are glad, on our side, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also highlighted a lot of the same positions in yesterday's presentation. It is incredibly important that we are now clear in our attitudes and at least do not contribute to creating anyone's between, for example. The United States and Europe, which unfortunately we record that some other European countries are currently operating. There should be no basis in this room to create one European team and one US team. We are totally dependent on joint efforts on both sides of the Atlantic to find a solution that removes or greatly reduces Iraq as a problem. It is now speculating what can happen if you don't agree with the Security Council, and it can probably provide the basis for exciting debates and media outreach, but there are mainly speculations. Now our focus is on a solution through the UN, and then we must also focus all our attention and efforts on precisely that. We feel that's what we've been asked to say something about here today, and that's the line we at the moment want to work through. The fight against terror continues, and the events in Bali unfortunately show that there is a fight that is far from won. It must continue to be carried at a high intensity. Although it is now still going forward in Afghanistan, it is a very long way to go, not least in the construction of the country. The Progress Party fully supports both the military and humanitarian efforts made by Norway in Afghanistan. The challenges ahead are to ensure that the interests of the international community exist when it comes to counter-terrorism. As the time runs after 11 September, and new issues come on the agenda, there is a danger that the focus will be gradually shifted to other fields. Among other things, Parliamentarians in the United States have been concerned that Iraq's issue will reduce its response to terrorism. Now, however, it is difficult to see that these are two issues unrelated to each other. US intelligence believes that it is able to detect some extensive contacts between Iraq and Al Qaida. It is therefore natural to regard the Iraq issue, not as a separate agenda, but actually as part of the same, namely the fight against terrorism. The Middle East was also an important point in the Foreign Minister's presentation yesterday. It's natural to comment on some of that. It is well at this point in the presentation Progress Party and the Government to some extent separating layers. The Middle East is and unfortunately remains a core of frustration and despair, not least because the human suffering absorbs us all. No other regional conflict has the ability to create such discouragement and almost frustration. The government is putting great emphasis on being balanced in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians in its work with the Middle East – in our opinion, and I think the Government will also agree with that. I'm sure balance should be a good thing. But at the same time, as I see it, it means that it is believed that both parties are equally guilty and equally responsible for the terrible situation that is in the region today. It may be that the Government believes that the blame is equally shared. I respect that, but the Progress Party cannot accept it. We do not accept that Israel should be condemned by the Norwegian Government to defend itself against terrorist attacks. Terror is terror, and a suicide bomber in Tel Aviv is basically no different from the pilots who led planes into the World Trade Center. It cannot be defended, it cannot be excused, nor can it be tolerated. This is fundamental to us. Then, of course, I can continue my post by telling you about PLO's history, a story largely built on terror, but I'll leave it. I just want to say that it is unacceptable for us to use terror as a means of pressuring international conflicts. In our opinion, the government cannot be as critical of both sides of the conflict. The goal of Norwegian Middle East policy must be something more than that we should be balanced in everything we do. That being said, of course, we agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the only thing that can provide a solution in the long term is a political solution. Military action can never create lasting peace. Assistance to the Palestinian authorities was mentioned in the statement. Speaking now of further assistance to the Palestinians, it is extremely important that this is given in a way that promotes democracy and human rights and prevents corruption. The abuse of Palestinian aid, the corrupt authorities and the use of donor money to promote hatred and fanaticism are just some of the things that have previously been revealed in the Palestinians’ handling of Western aid. Not only is such abuse immoral and reprehensible. It also impedes the peace process, and it jeopardizes the whole process of understanding between Jews and Arabs. In our opinion, we need to clarify the responsibility for the failure of the peace process, for the Palestinian team, and make it absolutely clear that further political, as well as financial, support, is entirely dependent on a change in course and a fundamental settlement with all those who conduct or support terrorism. Finally, such demands against the Palestinians do not mean that we should not work for a Palestinian state and put pressure on Israel to achieve such a solution. But the experience of the Oslo Agreement and increasing fanaticism on the Palestinian side does not make it easy to create any form of acceptance or understanding among the Israelis because it is realistic with a democratic Palestinian state in a few years. So here's a significant job to do and a challenge. We encourage the Government to be even clearer than it has been in its relationship with the Middle East parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e323	For the Labour Party, it is not primarily an objective to have the widest possible deal on Norwegian foreign policy. It is a means of listening to Norwegian interests. This means that it is also important for anyone who cooperates, so that one gets the greatest possible number of people, and so that the views that represent the multiple become heard in Europe are heard in the UN, which we are now discussing. In that context, Inge Wohnning raised the question of cooperative arrangements for the Workers' Party. Thorbjørn Jagland pointed out that the government has a choice: they can cooperate with the Labour Party, or they can choose the Progress Party in the foreign policy issues that we have on the table here. And we heard clear options from the Progress Party now on some single things. Thorbjørn Jagland presented a line of work in the United Nations, in relation to developments in the Middle East. Morten Höglund presented another. I would warn against a line that Morten Höglund stated that one mixes the Iraq issue and the fight against terrorism together. Obviously there is context, but it is not a matter. Iraq is primarily a matter of implementing binding UN decisions on the basis of what happened during the Kuwait and Gulf wars in the early 1990s. Iraq has failed to fulfil its obligations. We are interested in Iraq fulfilling its obligations to dispose of weapons of mass destruction. It is a matter in itself and should not be mixed with a comprehensive fight against terrorism. However, in the same way as we want a clear implementation of binding UN decisions in relation to Iraq, we also want to implement binding UN decisions in other areas, for example. in relation to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. And there Morten Höglund says it's not that important – or do I misunderstand Morten Höglund when it comes to this? It's pretty important to clarify what's the current plural here in the hall when it comes to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e340	With regard to resolutions relating to Iraq, as has also been mentioned earlier today, there are Chapter VII resolutions. They have a different legal status than some other resolutions, including: resolutions relating to the Middle East conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. Now this is not to suggest that those resolutions too should not be strictly complied with. It is a responsibility that rests not only on one party; the resolutions are to the greatest extent, if you look at several of them, directed at both parties. So accusing e.g. Only one party, i.e. Israel, to break the resolutions, is going to be as wrong as saying that only the other party is breaking the resolutions. It is a joint responsibility of the parties to comply with the resolutions. But legally in the United Nations system, these resolutions stand in a somewhat different light than the resolutions relating to Iraq, which are so-called Chapter VII resolutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e345	I listened with great interest to the part of Morten Højlund's contributions that concerned the Middle East conflict. As far as I can see, Morten Höglund was primarily concerned with allocating blame in the right way. Now, I guess that conflict has been forever marked by the very fact that you've been concerned about who's to blame for what. At least that discussion has not led to particularly noticeable positive results. I would think that the parties to the conflict would be doing a great service by not stimulating further discussion of guilt-sharing, but instead trying to help them look forward to it. I understand Morten Højlund's desire to defend Israel's policy, and respect it in itself, but at the same time I must be allowed to ask a little counter-question. What was the program of the government of Ariel Sharon when it went to elections and got a majority was to create security for the citizens of Israel. The Foreign Minister mentioned in his presentation the 600 Israeli lives lost after that, and the 1,700 Palestinian lives – in all materially civil lives. Does Morten Höglund think that this policy has been successful, since he wants to defend it as strongly and uncompromisingly as he does? At my discretion, any government must be judged whether it succeeds or fails to succeed in its policy. Does Høglund agree that this is a reasonable scale?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e352	If I was perceived as a unilateral defender of the Israeli government's policy, it's wrong. I also said that we have to put pressure on the Israeli side to work to get a Palestinian state in place. That the Israelis deal with the situation they're in at all times, in a best way, I haven't said at all, and I think there's a lot to do on the Israeli side. But what I tried to express was that Israel must have a right to defend itself against terror. And that's, as I see it, something quite different. I understood that, in the Foreign Minister's presentation yesterday, there was a criticism of this. That we can criticize and ask that this should not, as far as possible, affect civilians, which is something we condemn, is an obvious thing. But criticizing actions that I see as legitimate is something quite different when you hunt for known terrorists. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Igland, on the need to look ahead. Also, allocating guilt is not necessarily a path that leads. But when the foreign minister's theme yesterday, among other things. I believe there is a need to look at the experience gained in recent years in order to contribute to a better policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e359	During the current administration in the United States, there has been a growing distinction between Europe and the United States. This is not primarily due to Europe, but the Americans under the Bush administration have systematically tried to undermine very much of the international framework developed over many years. This concerns everything from landmines to small arms agreements, the ABM agreement, the probation agreement and the International Criminal Court – and you can include the Kyoto agreement, even if the Progress Party is against it. The point is that an ever-increasing number of European leaders are looking with great concern at American foreign policy, simply because it seems that Americans do not want this close cooperation through the international organizations, which are bringing the world some steps forward. The UN is thus the most important. In the speeches by the representative, Mr Høglund, it was said that if I understood him correctly, we should not accept a European team and an American team. But that is the reality. The reality is that in these issues it is the Americans who have moved away from Europe, and not the other way around. We also see this in the issue of Iraq, where an ever-increasing number of European leaders strongly warn against what the Americans are threatening, namely that action can be taken, possibly supported by Tony Blair, without a back cover in international law. I also understood the representative, Mr Höglund, that, after all, he believes that the international framework and the UN are important, and that we should not go beyond that. That is why it might be interesting to hear if the Progress Party believes unambiguously, because I hear in general very few critical words about American foreign policy from that party, that going to any military action without this being allowed into international law and the UN Security Council is out of the question for the Progress Party, and that in this way, like many other Europeans, they are, in fact, taking a clear position that international law is inviolable and that the Americans have no right to do anything without it being anchored in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e366	In terms of support for the United States in one and all and criticism of that, it's not a problem on our part to find areas where we see need to distance ourselves from the United States. The International Criminal Court and the Americans' attitude towards it is one area in which we see the Americans acting in an unfortunate way. American agricultural policy and the steel case are examples of American trade and domestic policies that are harmful to the world community. When I spoke about a European team and a US team, it was in relation to this conflict. The question of what happens if you don't get through the United Nations system is also asked by other speakers here today. I tried in my post to put emphasis on, and the pressure on, the UN solution. We do not understand that there has been a decision, even though Bush has now received a mandate from Congress, what will be done if one does not succeed in reaching through the UN and together with allies. It's going to be a hypothetical question. We have not received any request from the Americans for such support. So we don't see that this is a topic that we're currently going to have to go into. We're just as busy as others that you get a solution in the United Nations. That's what matters to us. That's why it's hypothetical to speculate in other solutions at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e373	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e376	Already in ours we tried in SV to get a debate here in the Chamber about so-called prevention attacks, or ‘pre-purchase attacks’. In spring, NATO's Secretary-General, George Robertson, clearly told us that NATO is not engaged in outreach activity. In the fall, Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Chris Patten, warns the United States that he wants troubleshooting and preventive diplomacy rather than military ‘pre-purchase attacks’. The background for all of this is the US’s new policy on security, which Norway will have to take a position once in a while. We didn't do it in ours, but we might as well do it now -- first as last. When one of our closest allies to those degrees changes strategy, we, as a small state, need to see if it can come to a collision course with our own security policy interests. One thing that's certain is that when it's e.g. debt prices on oil, we have totally opposite interests of our big neighbour in the west. It is disappointing that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not agree that an attack on Iraq could break with a central principle of international law. In the Security Council, according to SV's opinion, Norway must work consistently to prevent war on Iraq. In practice, it would be said to vote against any motion for a resolution that has incorporated into it the possibilities of using military power. We mean that there can't be any doubt that this must be Norway's line, because as a small country, we are dependent on respect for international laws and regulations. One of the great innovations that took place in the world in the last century was the prohibition of the use of power by international law. We know that early in the last hundred years, there were soldiers who died in war. Today, civilians die in war, relative to fifteen to one. We've got a completely different picture of this. We have come to believe that war is something we can do without anyone dying. Maybe that's why many people are talking about that it doesn't matter that we're at war, it's become a common situation. This ban is under constant pressure, and we can risk watering down international law. International law accepts the use of power only after the approval of the Security Council or self-defence. Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter provides the Security Council with the possibility to allow the use of power if peace is threatened or a breach of peace has occurred. Of course, there may be good grounds for allowing the use of power in massive violations of human rights, but the world must be on guard against the slipping out of the ban on the use of power. International law can change, and one can reflect on what the different countries find acceptable at any given time. That's why it's so important that Norway opposes an expropriation of the prohibition of power. That is why it is important to go against a resolution that can legitimize an American attack on Iraq. That is why it is disappointing that the Foreign Minister is not holding on to the fact that any American attack on Iraq will break with a central principle of international law. This is evident when the Foreign Minister says that the Government has two main points of view when it comes to dealing with the Iraq issue in the Security Council. Firstly, weapons of mass destruction and delivery for them must be removed without the use of military power. This is very easy to agree with. But then there's a threat that if one doesn't follow this, it could have serious consequences. Is it right to interpret it in such a way that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is almost in favour of a resolution that would threaten to go to war, which would be a clear legitimisation of an American ‘pre-purchase attack’, which international law does not accept? Secondly, the Foreign Minister said that every reaction must be anchored in international law, without discussing the consequence that the United States is actually asking for the legitimacy of a military attack under the principle of preventive warfare. It's just such an attack that will put the legitimacy, authority and trustworthiness of the Security Council in jeopardy, and we can risk the UN being written down to some sort of Red Cross of the nation. We must expect Norway to accept a decision on the Security Council that is not in line with the UN Charter, that we take a stand of our own and do what we can to promote them in the Security Council. We need to be aware that a motion for a resolution which clearly or unclearly authorises the United States to go into a military attack on Iraq will be presented to the Security Council. If none of the permanent members fail to veto, Norway's holding and voting can be entirely decisive for the reconciliation. In any case, the way the Security Council deals with matters could have a major impact on the role of the United Nations when it comes to a peaceful settlement of the conflict in the future. We must bear in mind that Iraq does not have an attack on the United States or on American interests. Information could not be parsed so an attack is about to occur. Thus, the conditions for exercising military self-defense are not present. It is likely that the United States will try to get a majority for a decision in the Security Council, which allows the United States to interpret it so that it gives the United States the right to go to a military attack on Iraq, if President Bush gives the order, and then without the matter coming up again in the Security Council. Congress gave such authority to this in the last week. If the United States succeeds in this, it will mean that the Security Council has delegated to the United States to decide whether to launch a military attack on Iraq, which would be contrary to its Articles Nos. 39 and 42, no matter how precise the outcome of such a decision. In other words, Norway must make it absolutely clear to, and in, the Security Council that the Security Council is prevented from delegating its exclusive competence to decide whether to use power against Iraq, and the conditions for it. And we know that it's useful. We know that the UN is effective, we know that the weapons inspectors removed many more weapons in the previous war against Iraq, not to mention the ongoing war. Iraq played cat and mouse with the UN people, no doubt about it, they might have the hold: cut us if you can! We know that the inspectors did this, and they did a big cut in weapons programs. It was effective. We've had four or five years without inspectors. That's what we need in the first place – get the UN back on track, get international law and all these things to work and prove that it's the civil resources that work. As I was in the beginning, Norway must stick to the new US strategy paper. When one of our closest allies makes such a big change in foreign policy, we can just as well discuss the content of these changes and the consequences for Norway. I'll list some of these. We know that the United States is committed to deterrence, so one should be able to act, that is operational. We know that this has come about after the Berlin Wall fell. After the Cold War was over, the United States is alone as a superpower. Instead of stretching a hand to the world community – and there is no doubt that the United States will be a leader both economically and in many other areas – they will have power alone. Why should they have this run alone? They're supposed to act, they're supposed to go away from the old principles. Treaties of international law shall be exploited but shall not bind the United States. In the United States, we see that a great opposition is very skeptical about this, because the United States is perhaps the most legally thinking country in the world – ruling by law in many ways. There's nothing wrong with us saying in Norway that we're talking about in every possible way, at least here in Stortinget, something else would be not having a friendly relationship with the United States. What do we do with friends who don't care? Friends who care are the ones who say so, who are willing to participate in a debate – that’s what democracy is, that’s what national government is. Being critical to this strategy is not what we in SV have found on our own. We even read about this in newspapers. This is a lively debate on in the United States — a demonstration against war. These are quite common democratic activities. The CIA chief George Tenet concluded in a letter to Congress that there was no danger of attack from Iraq. And now last: Al Gore, former vice-president, says straight away that the threat of war against Iraq is going against the fight against terrorism and the need to stabilise Afghanistan. And then maybe he'll remove the United States from the nearest allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e405	It has been said in the past that Norway is a small country, and the importance of Norway having some influence in foreign policy has also been stressed in the past. It was probably Trygve Bratteli – it is possible I remember wrong – who said in this room that the small country that disagrees with its own foreign policy has no foreign policy to pursue. That's a good starting point. Blankenborg was so much involved. For the purpose of our foreign policy is to move the world in the direction that we think is right. We want influence because we think we have something to contribute, and then we have to try to have a policy that makes us get that influence. When I hear Kristin Halvorsen's lines today, and also the post from Jacobsen, it strikes me that there is another thesis in this house that SV hopefully is all alone about, and it is that a nation cannot have any independent foreign policy without one at any time disagreeing with the United States – that is, in many ways choosing a completely different strategy than this house has chosen. And then I have to be allowed to ask something about what we have adopted in this house related to, for example. Afghanistan – it is always difficult to exercise self-criticism, but sometimes it can be in place: Would the representative Jacobsen be able to answer me if it has improved in Afghanistan? Have women's rights improved? Is humanitarian aid better? Do people feel better in Afghanistan now than they had before we decided to go to action in Afghanistan? SV was against it. But then they also assume an obligation to stand up and say that they had a different solution. I guess so. But do they also take responsibility? Do they agree with this, take self-criticism and say, "Well, we were wrong, it got better in Afghanistan?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e415	We have in this room before taking any self-criticism that we were wrong when it comes to Afghanistan. We thought the Taliban regime would sit any longer. But we didn't believe in the idea that war was the right thing to do in the fight against terrorism. We believed, and believe that today, that one can actually breed more terrorists by bombing. And we see our priorities in Afghanistan today, we use twice as much on bombs as we do on construction. This was a country like many other countries—poor, forgotten, that has been involved in major action policies before, but that is not so interesting for the time being. We know that the Taliban was in the United States. We know that these were major interests. That's where we stand today. I'm going to agree with Oddvard Nilsen that those who ruled there, the Taliban regime, Al Qaida, are gone. So now we have to put all the forces in to build this country – not drag it into a game of oil policy/geopolitics interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e422	That SV will calmly look at the fact that innocent people die if negotiations fail, I think that is quite daunting. It is necessary to use power when negotiations do not lead and the world is threatened by regimes that seem legitimate to use weapons of mass destruction against civilian targets. During the Second World War, Norway was totally dependent on help from the United States to cast out the occupying parties with power. Then it was not a question of negotiation. Today, Norway is also totally dependent on external assistance, which involves the use of power if its security and independence are threatened. We must also be willing to help others when world peace is threatened and negotiations fail. Does SV mean that you should only sit with your hands in prison if negotiations do not help, and let Iraq do what they themselves think about using weapons of mass destruction? Saddam has shown that he does not care about agreements or international law. There must be a rice behind the mirror, a binding agreement shall be adopted. Is SV in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e431	Only to confirm it immediately: SV is not a pacifist party. SV will also be able to support the use of power, and especially in areas where a vacuum occurs, where no stability exists. So we will be able to support the use of power if it is legitimized in the Security Council and has international law with it, if there is a risk of abuse and danger of human rights. But what we're seeing now is that a neighbor should add up to resolutions like a multi-stage rocket – if you don't do what we say, we'll shoot you. We're against the war, so we can't at least be part of the threat of war. We don't believe that much in this rhetoric. And especially in relation to Iraq, we know that in 1988, when Saddam gas Kurds, there was not so much excitement in the world. The U.S. Congress made an agreement at the time with the same regime in Baghdad – then it was friendly, then it could be used against Iran, which was the enemy that time. That's international law and the leaching of what we're concerned about in this context. Therefore, one should be very careful to legitimize the use of power before there is evidence that it keeps water in relation to international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e436	'SV 'is not a pacifist party. It is a useful clarification. It was also interesting to hear that Bjørn Jacobsen could well imagine situations where it might be relevant to use military power. Then one must understand that it may be relevant to threaten the use of military power. On that basis, it is a little strange that the situation in question is not of that nature, according to SV’s assessment. If I get it right, the SV's recipe is to make it clear to the world that under no circumstances will the United Nations use power to force respect for the UN's own resolutions on weapons inspection in Iraq. Does Bjørn Jacobsen think that it is a constructive contribution to the promotion of that process, which there is a consensus that we need to promote, if we are to achieve the objective of Iraq? Can Bjørn Jacobsen provide a single historical example that it has been successful with the dictatorship regimes of the kind to declare in advance that under no circumstances is one willing to use power? I want to be very interested in getting those examples. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, several rounds have taken place to clarify what SV really thinks about it. I don't think the last attempt by Jacobsen made it much clearer. Let me therefore clarify the question: Does Bjørn Jacobsen think that it would have been a wiser policy not to intervene in the military to clean up the arne places of Al Qaida networks in Afghanistan? Or even more clearly, would it have been preferable from the point of view of the SV to have had the Taliban regime as the seat of Al Qaida? Is that the option SV thinks would have been the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e450	I was reading in Stavanger Aftenblad an interview with one of the inspectors from 1998, an American, also in this game that the US/CIA infiltrated the weapons inspectors, that this was one of the reasons why they were thrown out. Those who were effective were thrown out. The civilian funds that worked were gone. Saddam probably had most of the blame for being thrown out when there was a conflict there. But what does this American citizen who has worked for American government powers and for the UN for many years say? He says that what this country doesn't need is a new war. We must dare to trust the people for whom we are, in a way, employers. Not least now when we sit in the Security Council, we have to trust the people who are there and work, who are in place, who are reporting, and who clearly say that war is not the solution here. We know that Iraq is a country made up of many families, of many different groups and of many different religious directions. We don't know what kind of regime we'll be able to get afterwards. We know that what we can do is build up under democratic forces in the neighbouring countries of Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia, so that in the long run we may be able to bring about democratic development in the whole region. I don't think going in there with ground forces of 400,000–500,000 men and a huge invasion fleet will be what the Middle East and the region need. So a little bit to Afghanistan again. We're going to ask ourselves, Inge Wohnning: do we get a problem if the rest of the world sees that what we have, what our culture represents around the world, are bombs? That's the language we know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e462	They are addressed to the President and not to the individual representative. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e467	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good review of the situation in relation to Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East. The installation showed many of the challenges facing us. There are several difficult issues, and I am pleased that we are having this debate on a broad basis in the Storing. This is a theme that affects us all, and that intervenes in our everyday lives. I would also like to add that it is fun to have a leader in the Foreign Affairs Committee who primarily carries forward our historical needs and our historical practice for a wide deal on Norwegian foreign policy into our time. Today's security policy image is full of unrest. New threats challenge established capabilities, structures and, not least, established thinking. International society is trying to find peaceful solutions. In this situation, Norway must be active, and we must engage. The fight against international terrorism will only be completed when everyone realizes that terrorism is not a dangerous way to achieve anything. Maybe it'll be a long battle, but we'll fight the terrorists. They cannot win this game. We shall never use terrorists' weapons to fight them. Killing innocent people and spreading fear will never be our goal. Our exposure has to be in several areas, and we have to use different tools. We must face terrorism with constant control, shown by diplomatic, humanitarian, military and other instruments. These days we know that young girls from Bodø and Harstad are in hospitals in Bali because of terrorist attacks. A little over a year ago, there was an entirely unmistakable situation for us. 11 September also made us understand more strongly than ever that the national and international arena is impossible to double. What's now happening in Bali is frightening, and it affects us all. Young people out to have fun are terror targets. As of 11 September, this grotesque attack also shows that international terrorism is a threat to our vulnerable society. We live in a dependent and vulnerable value. It's never been more important to be together before. We are morally obliged to fight terrorism and share the burden with other countries in the coalition. Our contributions consist of professional, sought-after and relevant capacities that are important in warfare and in stabilising security in a country such as Afghanistan. When it comes to Iraq, the only sure way to find out what the regime is capable of producing weapons of mass destruction, is to carry out full arms inspections in Iraq. It's a proposition that we get credible inspections, not because the inspectors are the target in themselves, but they're the means for the international community to make sure that Iraq doesn't have weapons of mass destruction. Following President Bush's speech at the UN General Assembly on 12 September, Iraq has agreed to allow weapons inspectors to return unconditionally. Hans Blix has had discussions with Iraqi representatives on practical arrangements in connection with the resumption of inspections. According to Blix, there are still unresolved questions. These must be resolved before the inspectors return, otherwise there will be a very difficult and unmanageable situation for the inspectors. It is too early to say whether Iraq will hold up its current position, that inspectors will have full freedom to work, and whether Iraq will cooperate with the UN. It will only show new inspections. Unfortunately, all experience suggests that we have to look at the promises with some skepticism. Therefore, we are concerned that the weapons inspectors should have a clear resolution from the Security Council. An important element here is the free access in Iraq, including the Presidential Palace. We're going to remember that these palaces are not just some small houses that Saddam lives in, but big estates that make up large land areas. Here it may be easy to hide such weapons. I hear people say that the real problem in this situation is the United States. First of all, I want to point out that Saddam is actually a threat to others and to its own people. He has invaded neighboring countries, and he has used chemical weapons against his own. It is Iraq that has not followed up the resolutions of the Security Council. We're not a few in all American politics, and we've been worried about the direction he looked for a while. But the United States chose to go around the United Nations, and the Christian People's Party is happy that the United States chose this path. It shows respect for international law. Only the UN Security Council can authorize wars. It is important that reactions to Iraq are anchored in international law. That is why we have also stressed the importance of this matter in the UN Security Council. It's uncertain what the weapon Saddam has. It's important for us to get the inspectors to fit in, so that we get more knowledge about this. But it's a paradox that it looks like it's the military threat that led, that's made Saddam turn around and open up to the inspectors. It's also a reality that we have to be honest enough to take with us. In the longer term, the fight against terrorism, war and regional conflicts must, above all, be carried out by means other than the military. I'm, of course, as you can see from what I've said so far, not opponents of military use of power. In its utmost consistency, it may be necessary. I see that weapons can win a war, but they can never win peace. Every hundred seconds, a human being will be killed in armed conflict. In total, 1.6 million people worldwide are dying an elected or too early death. It's not like a world we want. To change this, we need to focus on dialogue and increase cooperation and contact. Then we avoid misunderstandings and fear of others, as extremists can win fans. The poor must also have hope of a better future. This may contribute to economic cooperation, trade and assistance. Norway must therefore maintain its active role in international peace and development. It benefits with peace and reconciliation – see only South Africa and, hopefully, Sri Lanka. It shows that a living democracy with the right to participation and freedom of expression is the best assurance against the emergence of terrorist organisations. The fight against terrorism must be conducted in full compliance with human rights and international humanitarian law. In this context, it is important to stress that we cannot accept the prosecution of minorities and opposition movements by referring to counter-terrorism. Nor do I say that poverty and lack of resources start a war on their own. There are no conflicts explained by just showing differences. We see it on the Al Qaida network. Most of those involved in the 9/11 terrorist attack were not poor. They didn't. My point is that if poverty and frustration are used in mobilization, it can provide a basis for recruiting such extreme groups, and it can be a dangerous mixture, which can ignite a armed conflict. The chiefs of the conflicts like to use these factors in their struggle for power. At the same time as we are working with Iraq, Norway must maintain its commitment to the Middle East and continue to make clear demands on the parties. Military action will never alone bring peace. Neither will the Palestinian terrorist attacks on innocents. As the Foreign Minister said, there is a great deal of responsibility on the Palestinian leaders to stop the senseless acts of terror. It has been harder to counter terror with a broken security force, but still Arafat hasn't done what he can to stop this. There is also reason to question whether he really did what he could before the Israeli actions. Norway wants peace, reconciliation and stability in the Middle East. Then here, too, we must show that we are serious. Every day we read about wounded and killed Israelis and Palestinians. Last night, nine Palestinian children were killed. This must be stopped, and here the international community must be working to achieve a peaceful solution through negotiations, with respect for human rights as the very basis. One of the lessons learned from the Oslo process is that the international community did not place sufficient emphasis on democratic and human rights on the Palestinian side. In the Armistice Agreement in Sri Lanka now, the parties commit themselves to respect international law, that is to say human rights. Civilians have been given the opportunity to address complaints of abuse to the monitoring group. However, the situation in Sri Lanka is not adequate from an MR perspective. The role of Norway is to be present for the parties and to enable them to bring the process forward. The parties themselves select the priorities. We can't dictate anyone. But we learn that the parties are seeking advice, and we are experiencing an increased openness on the challenges of human rights. When it comes to the Middle East, it has to be the same there. It is not easy to see hope, nor is it helpful to give up. Then the international community has to increase the pressure, and I think the Foreign Minister has done well for how it should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e503	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e506	Thorbjørn Jagland said in his speech that the Stortinget cannot interfere directly with the negotiations and discussions in the Security Council. He also said that national consensus is necessary in order for Norway to do a good job in the Security Council. If I understood the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party right, he appreciated such an attitude from the Workers' Party. But I see that in the class struggle on Friday, 11 October, there is a big suggestion where the representative Lars Rise of the Christian People's Party goes out and strongly supports France's position in the intense draw fight that is now taking place in the Security Council. He said that ‘we believe that France has made a sensible proposal’. Then the representative Rise gets the question, ‘Is there any difference of opinion about this in the government?’ He then answers, ‘As far as I am aware, there is no disagreement about this.’ If this is the Government’s position, why didn’t the Foreign Minister say anything about this in his statement? I'm wondering what's right and what's wrong here. Finally, is it the case that when the opposition – in this case the Workers' Party – shows responsibility, ties in and awaits the complex discussions in the Security Council, can the Christian People's Party's Waging Representatives act as players?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e515	What the representative Rise said was that there was no problem in the government that one had to seek a solution through the Security Council on the basis of international law, and that it was superior to the question. Then the representative also expressed Rise that a way of going there could be the French initiative. It was an expression of a personal view from the representative Rise. It may be very sensible to say about the French initiative, but the Christian People's Party is of course behind what has been said by the Foreign Minister, and which was also supported by the representative of Jagland today, that when it comes to the process that is going on in the Security Council, it is not least important that the countries that are not the fixed vetolanda function as brewers to reach a final solution. That is why I share the view of the Foreign Minister and the representative, Mr Jagland, that it is unnatural that we, from the Stortinget side, in this way control the government in detail. But what was important for the representative Rise in the interview – he probably doesn't feel exactly the figure – was that the road here had to go through international law, and that the Security Council was the place where international law was to be clearly defined in a text.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e522	Jon Lilletun is involved in international law. That's good. Norway is at war in Afghanistan and has been so for most of this year. Our war effort is significant, it costs us several times as much as the humanitarian effort we have contributed in Afghanistan during the same period. By participating in sharp operations that we are now involved in, we are also at risk of jeopardizing our humanitarian credibility or capital. The war has been supported in a very unclear UN mandate, which is now more than a year old. Many claim that this war is not sufficiently rooted in international law. The war has led with instruments that are very imprecise, such as bombing from fighter planes at very large heights, with great civil losses as a result. Nobody cares about counting the killed, whether they're civil or military enemies. The treatment of prisoners is also under any criticism. The objectives of the war are imprecise. The Taliban is too far removed from power, the Al Qaida leaders are the few who know where it is. But no one can say what's going to happen before the operations can end. My first question to the representative Lilletun is whether he is of the opinion that the war in Afghanistan has an adequate grounding of international law, and in the case of: on what basis? Then, what goals must be achieved before the war can end? Finally, I would like to ask the representative Lilletun how, in his opinion, an attack on Iraq can be anchored in international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e532	I might have to have something more than two minutes to give you a detailed answer to this. I am amazed that SV representatives and SV as a party have a strong desire to come back to the situation in Afghanistan. So the reality is that what was a temporary solution in Afghanistan, a war, was SV against. Afghanistan had a government in place trying to develop a democracy and a functioning society. Then we see that there are strong forces fighting this. It is still under attack, among others. Schools for girls. It's obvious that we haven't been able to crack the pockets of the Taliban's or Al Qaida's corks. And then we see what's happening in Indonesia. If there's ever been evidence that there's a reason to move on to take these pockets out, it's the situation of the day. And then I agree with the representative Bjørklund. It is tragic to see that the bombing is sometimes misplaced. But when one sums up what this terror can lead to, we have to do two things. One is to be even more precise, and the other is to say that it's a superior goal to take out even more of Al Qaida's pockets and forces. That is the basis of international law. With regard to the last question about Iraq, it is quite obvious that it has been very clear from the Government and from the Christian People's Party today that there must be a basis for international law on the basis of a UN decision in the event of a war there. I agree that that is not what Iraq needs, but it should also be understood by Hussein.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e543	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e546	The Central Party welcomes this opportunity to discuss the most acute foreign policy challenges facing Norway and the rest of the international community. Norway participates in the war in Afghanistan. In the Security Council, we are involved in and deal with the very difficult situation in Iraq, and we are constantly reminded of the cruelty of terror. As if this is not enough, we are also witnessing a struggle for whether the global order should be based on international law or military power. Together, this is serious and complicated. Therefore, we had hoped that the Foreign Minister's presentation would have been somewhat more profound and analysing. In the breakup period we are in, it is essential to be able to hold on to basic principles. For a small country such as Norway, which is dependent on a well-functioning international community, it is a central task to contribute to the non-legitimisation of the fight against terrorism in violation of international law and that the use of military power does not have a more prominent role in the world community. The traditional role of Norway as one of the foremost defenders of multilateralism and international law must not be compromised. Therefore, we must also dare to be clear to all – including our allies – where these principles are not applied. Nor must it be compromised that the use of military power is different from the last resort in a conflict. In the light of our foreign policy tradition, it must be Norway’s task to contribute to the international community’s grip on the causes of terrorism and to significantly increase international efforts for poverty reduction and institution building. Only in this way can poor countries have the opportunity to take up the fight against the terrorists. Unfortunately, this broader approach to the fight against terrorism has been virtually absent since 11 September last year. It is right, as the Foreign Minister tends to point out, and as others have been here today, that we should be careful to make the United States a problem in the fight against terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. But on the other hand, there is every reason to be concerned about the role the United States wants to play in the world community. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, the United States has been the world's only superpower. This has obviously changed the United States' view of its own role in the world community. We've seen a United States that is increasingly failing to follow up international agreements. It is worth mentioning the Kyoto agreement, the mine and ABM agreements, the demands for immunity for Americans at the UN Criminal Court and protests against the UN Treaty against Torture. We could simply say that we're dealing with a more obscene United States. After 11 September last year, it may seem that American self-esteem has regained momentum. On 20 September this year, President Bush presented the new American security strategy. The strategy makes it clear that the United States will practice preventive attacks against terrorist groups and so-called robber states. Preventive attacks are clearly contrary to international law, and it is a strategy that will make the world more insecure. What if other countries develop similar prevention strategies? If the United States is not to comply with international law, why should other countries do it? What reason would there be for the United States to be able to act as the sovereign judge of the world society? We've heard President Bush talk about the axis of evil. Iraq and North Korea are specifically mentioned in the National Security Strategy on Weapons of Mass Destruction. As far as Iraq is concerned, it is difficult to interpret the signals from the United States differently from the fact that they have decided to change their regime. American opinion expects a change of regime. For the United States, it would be useful to have a United Nations resolution in your back. But let's not live in the world of illusions. It doesn't seem to hold for the U.S. to get the weapons inspectors in. It was already the speech of President Bush at the UN General Assembly last autumn. The goal is to change regimes. The opinion of the Central Party is that there is little reason to doubt that the United States will attack Iraq — with or without UN mandate. When you read the American strategy, there's no reason to believe that the United States will stop at Iraq, and that's disturbing. It's hard to read the strategy any other way than that North Korea can be next. Iran, which is also part of the axis of evil, is clearly believed to be in line after Iraq has been managed. Norway's position in the negotiations now taking place in the Security Council on Iraq needs to be developed in the light of the new US national security strategy. We can't hide under the umbrella 'the fight against terror'. In fact, the United States is developing new international driving rules. These are driving rules that are not based on international law but on military power. We need to be able to see and relate to this. An international order based on military power will not serve anyone in the long run – and definitely not small countries. The Iraq case must not be seen as an extension of the fight against terrorism, as it is fought in Afghanistan. That is as far as we can understand, per cent. today no evidence of a link between Saddam and Al Qaida, or of his intention or intention to use weapons of mass destruction. That being said, we have also said that we have not a betrayal of confidence in Saddam Hussein. Therefore, weapons inspectors must enter, and they must also have full access to the palaces. The Party will warn against a Resolution of the Security Council threatening the use of military force at this stage. You threaten with military power, you have to be ready to use it. The central party believes the risk of using military power against Iraq is too great. We must remember that Iraq is an artificial state formation, created by the British in 1921. Repressive measures have maintained state formation. The danger of the dissolution of Iraq is real. We can end up in similar situations as Lebanon and Yugoslavia in the 1970s. Are international societies prepared to deal with such a situation? Who will take responsibility after Saddam Hussein has fallen? Who will clean up after the political goals of the Americans have been achieved? Norway shall take an active part in the fight against terrorism. Therefore, it was right to participate in Afghanistan and contribute to the overthrow of the Taliban regime. However, the objective of further war efforts in Afghanistan is somewhat more unclear. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that Norway should have considered contributing to the strengthening and expansion of the ISAF force in Kabul, as requested by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. We acknowledge that last autumn the Stortinget agreed that Norway could contribute F16 aircraft. However, the situation has changed following the fall of the Taliban, and Norway needs to assess continuously and on a maritime basis how best to help stabilise and rebuild Afghanistan. The current situation in Afghanistan is worrying and clearly demonstrates that it is easier to trap regimes than to build stable, viable governments capable of meeting the most basic needs of the population. It is significantly easier to win the war than to win the peace. In view of the Norwegian participation in Afghanistan, I had expected the Minister of Foreign Affairs to have gone a little further into assessments of what was achieved in the war in Afghanistan following the fall of the Taliban, and also on what assessments the Government is making about the further involvement in the military area by the Norwegian side. As far as the Middle East is concerned, it's a fact that you depend on American involvement to come up with a peaceful solution. At a time when Iraq seems to be at the top of the American agenda, one can hardly expect the big breakthrough. However, it is positive that there are meetings and contacts between Palestinian and Israeli actors. Norway should continue the facilitating work that we understand all parties value. Furthermore, Norway should continue to assist in the reform of the building of an optimal Palestinian State and contribute to remedying the dramatic situation in the Palestinian territories following the eradicating of infrastructure and nutrient resources. In addition to providing assistance to the Palestinian authorities, Norway should encourage Arafat to maintain pressure on Hamas in order to prevent the Palestinian extremists from acquiring additional power. As far as Israel is concerned, it is essential to use the necessary trust to convince Israel to end the practice of violence. Israel must be encouraged to move into a more constructive path. We are facing a very demanding international situation. Norway participates, as we all know, in the war in Afghanistan. Norway shall make important choices within the UN Security Council. That is why it is important for the Storting to have this debate today. As magnification representatives, we should feel responsible for contributing to the public debate that should take place on key foreign policy issues. Modern foreign policy concerns the whole nation – it is no longer, and should not be, a debate for the exclusive few.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e591	Own resolve is not a positively charged word in anyone's vocabulary. If you replace it with the good Norwegian word maritime law, there is something the Center Party sometimes has a considerable sense of, at least when it appears at home. I understand that when it occurs outside and in other countries that you might at the moment think are on a wrong course, it is a problem. We can agree on that. Of course, it is a problem, and of course we are committed to pursuing a Norwegian foreign policy that seeks as far as possible to increase respect for international law and order and to increase respect for the bodies established to resolve international conflicts and ensure that peace is not jeopardised. I had a hard time really finding out what the Central Party and Åslaug Hagas alternatives are, but I realized from the post that the Center Party is no longer where the Center Party has always done – not only in the postwar period, but in fact in the whole party's history. It sounds like you're about to place the Central Party as a permanent follow-up to the Swedish Security and Foreign Policy. And that must be a pleasure for SV, of course, which is no longer entirely alone. Whether it's a pleasure for the Central Party's nuclear electors is another question. In today's situation, it may look like they have problems recognizing their old party, and I think that the whole of Åslaug Hagas's contributions gave them reason to be in the dark about where the Center Party is actually located – as part of the broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy, or as a permanent follow-up to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e598	It is nice that the representative is concerned about the visit of the Central Party, and we appreciate that. As far as foreign policy is concerned, there are no significant changes to it. The centre party stands for the line that one will be familiar with here in the house, in relation to our belief that we should build a global order on international law, our belief that Norway is wise to belong to NATO in terms of security policy, a fundamental belief that it is wise to contribute to the creation of a fairer and more global order. The foreign policy line of the Central Party is established. With regard to the issue of Iraq, it is about what line is believed to be leading to the very objectives I mentioned, the overall objectives of a better organised world and the belief that law, order and international law will apply. There are different assessments here, but our starting point is that the risk of a military attack on Iraq is too great. We don't believe that it will lead to a better organized world or to a more stable situation in that part of the world, and we don't believe that the contours of a process that we see will help to improve the situation of the individuals inside Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e607	The use of military power, as Åslaug Haga says, is a powerful tool, to resort to in extreme cases. That's exactly where we agree. In the case of Iraq, the invasion of Kuwait chose not to go all the way to Baghdad. They immediately pulled out and tried other instruments to get Iraq involved, to open up Iraq to inspect their weapons program, to get Iraq to dispose of biological and chemical weapons, and at least not to go into a path that led to nuclear weapons, which are now suspected of developing. I understood that Haga recommended the same thing as the SV has proposed, that there should be motions for resolutions that involve the use of military power against Iraq, and that, therefore, we wish to continue with non-military instruments. When the instruments that have been tested so far, such as a comprehensive sanction regime, have not produced, what types of non-military instruments can Haga now propose to set in motion as a rice behind the rear-view mirror if these inspections do not lead to? I understand that the Central Party is also very interested in us having the inspections carried out. Then I am very interested to know: What else than the threat of military power can achieve the desired results after ten years of testing with other instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e616	Threatening the use of military power is a very serious act. We have to be very aware that at the moment we choose to threaten using military power, we also have to be ready to use it. When our starting point is that it per. Today there is too much risk of using military power, when we fear that using military power we can get a region that is going into disintegration, and that can have enormous consequences, we believe it per. Today is not wise to threaten with military power. Nor is there any evidence that Saddam is armed with weapons of mass destruction. We definitely need to clarify that, but we're not there right now. I believe in general that contributing to regime shifts around can be desired in some situations, and that should be done in some situations, but there are no simple operations. We have also had experience in the past that it is possible to help build up opposition in a number of countries. And in the situation we are now facing in Iraq, we must have patience, and we must be willing to use time to build up the opposition so that we get a change of regime, but a change of regime coming from within.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e623	The representative, Åslaug Haga, says that there is no evidence that Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction or will use them. Hasn't the representative followed when Iraq was at war with Iran, or during Iraq's occupation of Kuwait, and what was used by weapons then? That the Central Party is not a friend of the United States, we've known for a long time, and the representative confirmed this in his post. But does Haga not see that the West is more dependent on the United States than the United States is dependent on the West? As far as Iraq is concerned, I believe Saddam Hussein is only complying with a decision if there is a threat that if the resolutions are not complied with, you go to a stronger slope to get them through. I don't think Saddam will at all care about a resolution where they say that either you follow it or you don't follow it, it's up to you, and it has no consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e630	First of all, with regard to American friendliness, I'm a good American friend. I've always been, and I'm always going to stay. But it is also the case that one has to object to his friends when one believes that they are doing unwise things and making unwise balances, not least in a situation where the balances made by a good friend could have major global consequences. The central party's point, which I hope has been underlined here now, is that one has to weigh what one can achieve by using military power versus the risks one is exposed to by using military power. Here we weigh one concern against the other, and that is not necessarily easy, but we do not believe that we will achieve our overall objectives for Iraq, or for religion, or for the fight against terrorism, by now choosing to use military power. I am not least concerned about the situation in relation to the desire of many in this Chamber that we should manage to maintain the broad coalition against terrorism. We are running a risk of a military attack on Iraq, too, in view of the fact that the broad alliance against terrorism can be disrupted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e638	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e641	I must also state that we should not mix the fight against terrorism with the Iraq question. As far as Iraq is concerned, there is a question of implementing binding UN decisions to remove weapons of mass destruction, and it is a question that the UN Security Council is now dealing with, and must make clear and unanimous demands on Iraq. Terrorism cannot be accepted. It has been said several times from this pulpit today. It is a recognition shared by countries stretching from Pakistan via Russia and the EU to the United States. Terrorism is the greatest threat to open, democratic, technological society. The fight against terrorism is currently an integral part of Norwegian defence policy. The terrorists who placed the bombs in Bali knew exactly what they were doing. Everything was professionally done, from coordination and planning to explosive power and type of bomb. The aim of the terrorist attack was one-sided civil -- well, to mark random civilians. But the place that was chosen was not random. The attack caused chaos, fear and uncertainty. Uncertainty and unforeseeability also characterise the security policy situation in general. Perhaps we can say that the new order of time, or disorder, began on November 9, 1989, when the East Germans burst through the hated Berlin wall. It was the beginning of the cold war. We believed in Europe that we would have the eternal peace. A few years later, ethnic conflicts exploded in the Balkans. Among other things, we witnessed that 7,000 people were massacred in Srebrenica while UN soldiers were watching. This was in Europe. Meanwhile, Germany was gathered into one kingdom. In the post-Soviet kingdom, old stab structures fell to the end as a card house. Unpaid researchers sold nuclear competence to the highest bidder. Organised international crime became a phenomenon. In the southern part of the old Soviet Union, new exotic countries began in one of the most strategic areas in the world. In neighbouring Afghanistan, Al Qaida built up the Taliban regime of terror. When NATO adopted its strategic concept in the spring of 1999, the new threat picture was drawn: terrorist networks, international crime, uncontrolled proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. NATO recognised that terrorism could create international instability. And then, September 11, 2001, which may have changed the security policy, the alliance structure and the balance of power to an even greater extent than the fall of the Berlin Wall marked the 1990s. In the fight against terrorism, it is important that different instruments are used. Military power must only be used when policy instruments do not reach. If we do not find the causes of terrorism, we can quickly stand without permanent solutions – and wait for the next terrorist attack. Operation Reuring Freedom in Afghanistan has been successful, and it is a formidable strength that Enduring Freedom covers a whole of 70 countries. The war in Afghanistan is almost over. The decommissioned F-16 planes have only operated with reconnaissance and deterrence flights and have not fired at a single target so far. But they're there, among others. because the ISAF force and humanitarian organisations are to have the security that aircraft are in the air when doing their important work and because it is known that there are still terrorists in the country. Norway now has a formidable job as head of the Afghanistan Support Group. Reconstruction after 20 years of war and 10 years of terror rule, the development of schools, well-being and political institutions must be in focus, as well as the immediate humanitarian situation ahead of winter. Finally, I was in Pakistan in April 2001. In the refugee camps on the Afghanistan border, hundreds of thousands of women and children sat. They had almost frozen in their heels through a hardy winter, and food was little of it. Back to the Taliban regime, they couldn't leave. Today they're in Afghanistan. We owe them a safe winter, with food, clothes, shelter and warmth, and this is really a huge challenge for Norway in the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e669	I would like to use this opportunity, after the Minister for Foreign Affairs' excellent statement, to remind you of the crucial role of a strong and appropriate defence in a country – in this case Norway – has the ability to pursue an independent security and foreign policy. Since it's in Afghanistan we have the most active military effort, I'm going to concentrate most of my post on it. The fight against international terrorism is not over. As long as Al Qaida and Taliban groupings remain active in Afghanistan, the military operations cannot cease. The numerous terrorist attacks against current Afghan political leaders and attempts to destabilise the situation in the country, including undermining humanitarian efforts and reconstruction, underline the importance of this. The broad international effort based on political, diplomatic, legal and military action must therefore be continued. Without real peace, Afghanistan will not move on. As usual, SV has used this debate to demonstrate its – in a literal sense – isolation in foreign and security policy. I think we should respect that. I just want to remind you that the very foundation of the party and the whole existence are not insignificantly based just on this solitude. Now I heard correctly that Kristin Halvorsen also tried to drag the Center Party into the same folder. In this case, it must be the experience of the two representatives in the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom. In the Defence Committee, the leader of the Centre plays a constructive role in all essential respects, on the basis of the rest of the broad majority, who have always supported this common policy. Norway sent six F-16 aircraft to Afghanistan on 1 October. The international forces on the ground are dependent on aircraft support, just as our soldiers on the ground were previously under the protection of the coalition's aircraft. Now we are giving this security to the soldiers of other countries. Our presence is deterrent and prevents terrorist acts and other military activities from remaining Taliban and terrorist groups. After the first phase of the war, the Allied planes have released a very limited number of bombs against targets in Afghanistan in recent months. The aeroplanes are most of the time on standby, in the air and on the ground. The Norwegian contributions in Afghanistan respond to requests from the US authorities and demonstrate our willingness to follow up our alliance commitments in line with Article 5 of NATO. Norway, the United States and other allies have a common interest in avoiding the adoption of civilian targets. This is why much emphasis is placed on this in the planning process. At every level, we do what we can to prevent civilians from being hit. However, fault bombing has occurred, and we cannot rule out that it could happen again. If the Norwegian fighter aircraft were to be involved in fault bombing, thorough investigations will be carried out where Norwegian representatives would have decisive influence. The results of such studies will, of course, be published to the extent that they do not violate essential safety interests. The personnel we have sent to demanding tasks in Afghanistan have done a very good job. We have received positive feedback from our international cooperation partners, as well as both the military involved in Enduring Freedom, and the personnel in ISAF deserve active support from home. However, I would like to stress that Norway's successful participation in the military operations in Afghanistan must be seen in the context of the modernisation of the defence with which the Government is working, in cooperation primarily with the Workers' Party, but also in crucial phases with the Central Party. This modernisation creates no contradiction between our national defence and our tasks as NATO ally. There's no contradiction between these two things, even if it's sometimes tried that way. In order for us to be able to benefit ourselves from the support of our allies in NATO if we need it, it is essential to fulfil our NATO responsibility and act in solidarity with other allies in the face of crises. In this context, Premise No. one in order to do an important job here, that we keep order in our own house, and that we modernise our defenses. And I notice, for example. that we have a demonstration outside the Great Britain today, where there are groups that are moving towards the Eastern Region, which is a premise that we can send soldiers out on such dangerous missions with a good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e684	Norway is at war in Afghanistan, and has been so for most of this year. Our war effort is significant and costs several times as much as the humanitarian effort we have contributed in Afghanistan during the same period. Instead of participating in this war, we should, in the SV's opinion, strengthen our efforts to improve security and the very difficult humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. We believe this despite the fact that both the representatives of Wage and Jagland and others here are still of the opinion that this war was and is a prerequisite for peace in Afghanistan. No one was in any doubt that the war in Afghanistan would produce results – not us either. But we believe there were other instruments that could have resulted in the Al Qaida network being punished for its actions and the Taliban being replaced by a democracy. These instruments were not used. The war has its support in a very unclear UN mandate that is now over a year old. The war is led by means that are very imprecise. Nobody cares about counting the killed, and the treatment of the prisoners is under any criticism. The objectives of the war are imprecise. The Taliban is too far removed from power, and the Al Qaida leaders are there no one who knows where. But no one can say when the operations can be finished. There are many in Norwegian society – including in the military ranks – who wonder what every day is the reason we're in this war. I would quote Flag Commander Jacob Børresen who gave this explanation at a meeting of the Norwegian Defence Association on 24 September this year: ‘I belong to those who believe that we have drifted into these operations more like a reflection of the cold war’s tender loyalty bid to NATO and the United States than as a result of a thorough balancing of advantages and disadvantages in relation to Norway’s interests in the short and long term. It could be that it would show that we did the right thing, in which case it was of luck and not of computation. But it may also be that we were wrong." I share this view, and I miss, like Mr Børresen, an explanation of why it is important for us to participate in a war in Afghanistan where the objectives are particularly unclear and where few know what goals must be met before the war can end. I also miss an analysis of the consequences of this participation in the war on our security and, to a large extent, on our role as a humanitarian force. I would like to challenge the Foreign Minister for this very thing. What are the consequences of this war participation on our security and reputation as a country that puts peaceful conflict resolution at the top of the agenda? Does participation in war in Afghanistan strengthen or reduce our national space for action in the short and long term? There are two issues related to the war in Afghanistan and the relationship to international law that have been debated in Norwegian media for a long time, but which are not discussed in the Stortinget, and which I will address here. One question is whether the mandate for the war in Afghanistan is sufficiently anchored in international law, and the other is whether the warfare is conducted in such a way that international law is violated. Like many others, if not in this Chamber, I would argue that there is not a sufficient mandate for this war, despite the fact that the issue of instruments against Al Quaida has been affected several times in the Security Council. There has been no doubt about the United States' right to self-defense, but it has not been said that war in Afghanistan was the way to do it. When it comes to the question of how this war is waged, international law violates, the opinions are also divided. Of the arguments that suggest that the way the war is waged is contrary to international law, I can mention three: in this war there is no count of loss on the part of the opponent, whether they are civil or military enemies. The treatment of prisoners, who in part are not even accepted as prisoners of war, has been under any criticism, and the military instruments, such as bombing from large-scale aircraft, give rise to too large civilian losses in relation to the gain. There is very little debate on these issues here in Stortinget, and that gives cause for concern. There are good reasons to discuss these issues here too, because the consequences of our actions in this war can mean something in the next round. A war can be waged in many ways. The war in Afghanistan is largely asymmetrical, i.e. the use of different instruments by the two parties. The consequences of this inequality have been affected in many contexts in recent times, including: by former Chief of Defense, Fredrik Bull-Hansen, in the Klasskampen 10 October this year. And what kind of impact different instruments can have is interesting. Many now claim that the abuse and killing of prisoners of war stimulates more than it dampens the terrorism of a counter-party who is broken in the military but still has great terrorist capabilities. It is therefore in itself a response to international terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e710	Since my statements on the Class struggle were made into a theme by the representative Eyeågen, I would like to make the following comment: I can confirm that I have spoken to the Class struggle, but I must say that I have been subjected to a very creative form of journalism, and I have sent a correction to the Class struggle which hopefully comes to the fore. It is positive that we can have a lively debate on what instruments we should put in place to achieve our objectives of peace and democracy. In the last few weeks and months, almost all focus has been on the situation in the media as well as in international politics in Iraq and how to disarm the Iraqi regime. But it is important that we do not lose focus on what our commitment has really been about since 11 September, namely the fight against international terrorism. I also agree with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland, that we must not lose our commitment to contributing to peace and reconciliation in the Middle East. There is no doubt that as long as this conflict is not resolved, it can also inspire terrorist acts against countries that are perceived as the enemy. Bjørn Jacobsen said that SV is not a pacifist party. We can use power, he said. He went on to say that what we now see is that we add up to a resolution that threatens war. But he is: we should be careful not to threaten the use of force until there is evidence that it is based on the weapons inspectors. Åslaug Haga said something of the same thing: we don't know if Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction, and we need to clarify that now by the weapons inspectors. But it must have a rice behind the mirror to get to this, and we can probably agree that the weapons inspections would hardly have started if there wasn't a rice behind the mirror. In its time, SV was a strong supporter of Gorbachev’s zero solution for the deployment of rockets in Europe. But it was only when Reagan threatened with both sides that there was a comprehensive negotiated agreement on disarmament. You can always think that diplomacy is the best, but there are some who only understand a language of power. So SV was wrong when it came to disarmament policy at the end of the 1980s. And SV has said here today in the Chamber that they were wrong when it came to their policy towards Afghanistan, and that they were wrong when it came to how quickly the Taliban regime would collapse. It must be a goal to instill cynical dictators, disarm them and disarm them. And here Kristin Halvorsen had a point. She said that of course Saddam Hussein was a dictator, but there is not enough reason to attack. But Saddam Hussein has shown that he is willing to use weapons of mass destruction against his own people. And we've seen that even SV has been willing to use power when someone, for example. Milosevic, has used military means of power against his own people. Then there's someone who's wondering that the United States has completely different motives. But what is interesting for Norway is that Saddam Hussein has not provided what the world community has been waiting for for for ten years. I think the perspectives that Thorbjørn Jagland draws up by referring to the fall of the Berlin Wall and the developments it has led to in Europe are interesting given the ring-effects it can have for the whole region if we get a peace solution between Israelis and Palestinians. But it's important to remember that the Berlin Wall didn't just fall, it was the result of an important change in the way to think. And that's what we need in the Middle East, a new way to think about, a renewal of perceptions and attitudes. A stronger search must be made for human rights and democracy in the Palestinian territories. Once and for all, a settlement must be made with the school material that is still used on the Palestinian side, where a hatred is created in children and young people and is fired under enemy images. It is totally unacceptable that these books are still in use. They should be burned! It may seem pointless to spend so much resources over many years trying to create peace — heads of state, diplomats and humanitarian organisations doing everything they can — when it is so systematically undermined. This poison spreads in the Palestinian environments. Norway needs to focus a critical searchlight on this, and I would challenge the Foreign Minister to think through whether we can offensively bet on bringing young leaders in the Middle East together to build up enemy images and create reconciliation and build peace opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e725	We have recently been reminded that the fight against international terrorism is far from over. The act of terrorism in Bali was a cruel reminder that terrorists are still able to carry out extensive and deadly attacks against innocent civilians. Such terrorist acts, along with the threat of weapons of mass destruction and their possible spread, make the world uncertain. There is a need for joint and targeted action against these forces. In particular, the situation in Iraq is now high on the international agenda. This week Saddam Hussein was re-elected President of Iraq for seven new years. He had no respondent, and the election stood between yes and no to Saddam Hussein. According to the media, he got 100 pst. by the votes cast. It confirms how far away a democracy is from Iraq, and how much power Saddam Hussein has. It's a brutal regime. We have seen how he has caused the civilian population great humanitarian suffering in a game to make the United Nations lift sanctions against Iraq. Saddam Hussein has not only been shown to be able to go to the invasion of neighboring countries, but he has also used chemical weapons against his own population. The world community has to make sure he doesn't hit again. That is why UN weapons inspectors have to get back into the country. It is clear that the weapons inspectors have not been able to complete their job so far. Therefore, it is important that Norway is now working for the five permanent members of the Security Council to reach an agreement so that the weapons inspectors can resume their work. As several of the previous speakers have also pointed out, I would like to stress the importance of the United Nations and the role of the Security Council in the issue of Iraq. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also made it quite clear in his statement that this is a matter that belongs in the Security Council. The Working Party supports the Government here. The role of the UN in the fight against international terrorism and for peace and security is fundamental. I was at the United Nations General Assembly in New York right after the cruel attacks of September 11th last year. The American population was shocked, and a new and unknown uncertainty came into their lives. It was a strong and widespread desire that those behind them be held accountable. It was with satisfaction that we all saw that the United States took good time to build an international coalition in the fight against terrorism and anchored its fight against international terrorism both in the United Nations and in NATO. It is very important that the world's only remaining superpower, the United States, cooperate internationally also in the further fight against terrorism and for peace and security. It is so serious that it must be dealt with jointly and in such a way that new conflicts do not arise. This is the art of cooperation. It is only through international cooperation that we can achieve lasting good results. We see that in Europe today through the European Union. Countries that have also fought against each other through history cooperate and find compromise solutions. There is peace and cooperation in a whole world that has been marked by war and human suffering. A strong EU is also a necessary counterweight to an overpowering US. All diplomatic and political solutions must be sought first, before any power and coercion is put in place. But sometimes no other means work, and one must resort to military power. An example of this is Afghanistan, where a wide-ranging international coalition succeeded in defeating the Taliban regime, and Al Qaida was driven back. In this way, we can say that the military operation in Afghanistan has so far been successful – without me drawing any parallels to Iraq for that reason. No one fully knows the consequences of a military attack on Iraq. Back to Afghanistan. The military actions only make sense if they are followed up. For a long time, the international community must be committed to providing assistance in order to be able to rebuild Afghanistan. Here, through its chairmanship of the donor country group, Norway must be the driving force for the international community to follow up. The job is not yet done. We are obliged not to forget Afghanistan, as many did after the Soviet Union left the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e742	Let me first thank you for the opportunity I have given to explain the Government's view on three important international issues, and for having a debate immediately afterwards. I think it has been very valuable that the debate came so close to the presentation. My main points of view were presented yesterday, and today I shall confine myself to commenting on some of the issues that have been raised in today's debate. At that time, it is quite natural to start with Committee leader Thorbjørn Jagland's main point, namely that it is important to maintain a broad national consensus on foreign policy issues. I very much appreciate the contributions Thorbjørn Jagland has just made to get this done. And I can assure on behalf of the Government that, of course, the Government on its part will contribute by carefully consulting the bodies of the Storting on the important foreign policy issues. I would also like to say that I fully agree with the description that Mr Jagland gave of the role that we can play in the Security Council, and the way it should be worked on. I also agree with much of what he said about the relationship with the Arab world. I fully agree that the statements about crusades that came last year are very unfortunate, because they are sending the idea in the wrong direction and triggering associations that are going badly opposite what we are going to trigger. Luckily, what you've done all year after the fight against terrorism started after 11 September last year is keep the international coalition together, and that's the line we're going to pursue. We still have to do that. But I think it's been a lot better than what you might think last year. It is a very important question how to move further the Palestine/Israel conflict. I understood Thorbjørn Jagland so that he has great hopes for the work of the Quartet. So do I. They've made a road map for the further advance. There have been many plans ahead. But I think it is important that the Quartet now works closely and closely with Norwegian support in those areas where we can especially do a job. But I also fully agree with the point that the permanent members of the Security Council here have a very significant responsibility. This means not least that we are calling for a clear American pressure to get the process going. The pressure that was put in at the last siege of Arafat was promising, but it will be desirable with more commitment than we have seen so far. We've said that many times before. It is important that this pressure is introduced. Our role I'm not going to discuss right now. I think we should put great emphasis on the work we are doing in the donor country group, and it is important that we manage to be in touch with all parties. In this way, we are also useful to all parties to the conflict. I believe that on this basis I can see that there has been a broad consensus on the main issues in my presentation. The agreement is there, although I record that the SV and the Center Party stand out. But there's a broad consensus in Stortinget. In fact, it also applies to the Middle East, the Palestine/Israel conflict, because I understood it this way, not least in a line change, that the disagreement of the Progress Party was not as fundamental as we might think only after hearing Højlund's statements. So that's the posts that came from SV and the Central Party. I must admit that after seeing the criticism of my statement yesterday, that it was superficial, relaxed and not expressing any attitude, I had several expectations of the posts to be held. But I just remember the old saying that you shouldn't throw stones when you're sitting in a glass house. There are not insignificant glass corps left after both Bjørn Jacobsen and Åslaug Haga. That they're disappointed, I understand better now, because I asked to explain to Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East, but I understand that what I should have asked to be explained was the United States, because that's what you're concerned about. When I say it this way, it's because I got quite clear advice from the two parties about what we shouldn't do with Iraq, but they're very unclear – to say it carefully – about what to do. It is in the area I would like to have been advised, namely what alternative strategy they want to adopt. As far as I can see, there are two contributions. One is to give Saddam Hussein a guarantee that military resources will not be used. I am not sure that is a suitable measure to make Iraq accept the inspectors and then destroy any weapons of mass destruction. I would like to remind you that when the inspectors were welcomed back, it was just after President Bush's speech in the UN Main Assembly. It hadn't happened otherwise. Saddam Hussein has a long history of fighting until the last second. Obviously, if you say clearly what you're not going to do, that's the same thing as saying, "It's okay that you keep doing what you're doing." Then the question is whether Stortinget believes that it is okay. The alternative approach could possibly be sanctions. We've tried that so far. But there is no doubt that there are major adverse effects on sanctions. That has been well covered in the debate as well. I have not seen either the Senterpartiet or SV as a driver of stricter and stricter sanctions than the ones we have had so far, so I expect that it is not the line you want to put on. But once you have excluded the two possibilities, I am actually a little confused about what advice SV and the Central Party had intended to send with me from this debate. Now I see that Kristin Halvorsen is on the list of speakers later in the debate, and I expect that she will then spend her time preparing for the SV's Iraq policy. That would have been pretty interesting. I would like to say one more thing that relates to Iraq. I think it is a little underestimating the choice made by the US administration in the speech given by President Bush, and when the matter is now being pursued by the United Nations Security Council. Some people are almost a little disappointed that the Americans have really been following this UN track, and the disappointment is so great that you basically take away the element of the posts you've been holding so far. I don't think you should do that. It is clear that it is not an easy matter to reach agreement in the UN. I think we should note that the Americans have therefore chosen the UN track, and that is what is now being pursued. That's where the matter lies. The whole objective of what is now being done is not to use military instruments, but to have the UN resolutions complied with and to ensure that they are not weapons of mass destruction – under the pressure of these resolutions that the United Nations should now adopt. That's the whole point. I'll warn you a little bit about the trend you have, not to write tomorrow's newspapers, but to write next week's newspapers. It is important that we now put in a hard, sharp pressure so that we can find a peaceful solution to this, while at the same time ensuring that Saddam Hussein does not get stuck with weapons of mass destruction. Then I also got a challenge from Bjørklund regarding Afghanistan. I just want to say that I do not share his view that there is some unclear mandate for these operations. It is very clear – in the case of self-defense, in the UN Decision and in so far as NATO has also triggered Article 5. So the formal basis is okay. At what point it's natural to end the military operation that is certainly allowed, I don't think it's possible to define in advance. I believe that we should note that we have now reached a second stage, where, for example, this is the case. will be significantly less in need of bombardments than has been the case in the past. But you're not quite there. But what the objective here has been, it should not be a moment of doubt about, it is to combat terrorism, and also to ensure that we rebuild Afghan society. Then there is a crucial link between creating security in Afghanistan and having opportunities to rebuild. It's a completely false notion to think that these are two completely different things that can be separated from each other. I would also like to warn against the line that Åslaug Haga has obviously taken, namely that there is a contradiction between ISAF and Operation Enduring Freedom. It is not, all of these things go very well together. If the President permits, I only have a tiny closing remark on something I actually think was quite interesting and promising. I saw that Åslaug Haga in his criticism of me in NTB yesterday let the criticism include that I was unmusical in relation to the European main line in Afghanistan. I really have to say that if there is a criticism that is to be borne, it is that the Central Party criticises me for not being European enough. Here is the jam of hope for the future!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e773	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e776	If I had received it, I would have given the floor to Åslaug Haga, so that one could have continued the debate that the Foreign Minister started. But I didn't get that. I should like to comment on a few points in what the Foreign Minister said and in the light of the debate we have had. As we said earlier today, the Labour Party also wants our voice to be part of the Norwegian voice that we are going to work for to be heard as internationally as possible. There are some common thoughts, of course. We want a most effective and powerful insurance council, which is the basis of Norwegian policy, as the government says. We would like to make Kofi Annan's words ours, as he expressed it in the debate on Kuwait and Iraq yesterday: if Iraq does not take advantage of this last chance, the Council must assume its responsibilities. And it's my experience, said Kofi Annan, that the Council does this best and most effectively when the members become some. So simple and so difficult – and that is what we want at this point to be our mandate to the Government's work in the Security Council. The way to reach this agreement will be handled by the Government. When we come up with a concrete proposal, the situation becomes different, we also have to decide on it. And we see, as the Foreign Minister, Iraq's issue primarily as a follow-up to binding UN decisions, but we also want to focus on binding decisions by the Security Council being binding in all respects. We also want to right from the Foreign Minister's mouth that there is a challenge, yes, there is a danger to the UN's trustworthiness if there is a double accounting, that a set of forces behind the implementation of binding decisions is a place, but not elsewhere, there is a danger to the United Nations in the same way as anywhere among the central members. I don't say anything about how to live up to this, but it's important to keep it up to the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e783	The exchange of lines between Åslaug Haga and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come back to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e786	I believe that Haakon Blankenborg and I fully agree on the need for the Security Council to be powerful. And I think that Blankenborg stressed, that the Council is most effective when it comes to gathering, is very important. There has been an important clue to Norwegian work and voting in the Security Council on a number of occasions, as it is quite clear that when you have managed to get together, you are most effective. I believe this year's story relating to the Middle East is that at the moment you've been able to gather, the Security Council has also been played into the solution of the problems you're facing. However, if the Security Council is to be effective, the Security Council must also be at the height of the situation and the challenge, and that is a rather important point for us to stress. Not least in the context of Iraq, it is important to underline, because we do not start at a zero point in relation to Iraq. The reality is that here there is both an agreement after the war on Kuwait and a number of Security Council decisions that are there for follow-up. This means that the Security Council must ensure that the decisions taken also mean something in practice. That's why you don't start with blank papers, but it's a well-defined challenge from Saddam Hussein's regime that needs to be met now. But I agree with Haakon Blankenborg that it is important in different ways to bring about the enforcement of all the resolutions adopted by the United Nations, even though they have a slightly different formal status. With regard to the Middle East, much of our work is just trying to implement these resolutions in a very complicated situation, where the aim is to get two groups of people against each other to live peacefully side by side for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e792	I think we would have been in a rather hopeless situation if that was what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks, that those who are not at all willing to threaten war or military power in various conflicts in the world have no answer. It must then be everyone's responsibility to find peaceful solutions to the conflicts that actually exist. And then I'd like to invite the Secretary of State to go into the discussion about what is at risk if you actually go to war or don't care that the United States is taking a stand in relation to an invasion in Iraq. Can't that just cause the weapons of mass destruction that Saddam Hussein may have, but which he does not threaten to use in today's situation, might he use in a situation where he has nothing more to lose? What happens in the case of Iraq after any invasion? What is the alternative regime? And the third is: what consequences can it have in the region and in relation to recruitment to more extreme groups in the region? All three things are very serious consequences of an invasion in Iraq. Then I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what we now look at from the new way in which the United States is able to cope with international policy. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is legitimate to have regime change as a motive behind the use of force by the UN? Is it legitimate to argue with preventive attacks, and does it have authority in international law? And is it legitimate that the five vetomaks of the United Nations should be given special treatment and be able to decide whether and when to participate among the sentencing officers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e799	When I asked what advice SV would like to give me on an alternative strategy, it was in and on my own to hear what it had to be. We are facing a very concrete challenge, where, as I said in my statement yesterday, it is important to find a solution to this issue without the use of military resources. I outlined some important elements of the UN decision that should be taken in order to achieve this. So the point, as far as I can see, is that Kristin Halvorsen has rejected this advance. I understand you're doing that. But then my question is simply: what have you thought we should do instead? If you don't intend to do anything instead, you make the choice that then we don't do anything effective with this challenge. It's not that you can take that situation away. We have come to some kind of moment of truth in many ways, where you have to decide if you want to do something with this challenge from Saddam Hussein, or if you don't want to do anything with it. If you don't want to do anything with it, it can certainly be justified – that's not what I'm saying – but I say that then you have to at least acknowledge that that's what you're doing. That's essentially why I ask: if you reject the progress I outlined yesterday, what would you advise me to do instead? It is at that point SV has been completely unanswered in this debate. It's also in all modesty what I first invited Stortinget to discuss, because the advice will be useful to bring. It is not that a change of regime is the goal of what is now happening; it is compliance with UN resolutions. That none of us would then be included in this hundred percent that Saddam Hussein got yesterday, that is another side of the matter. No one would regret that regime's disappearance, but there is more than enough justification in the case just linked to the UN's previous resolutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e808	The Minister of Foreign Affairs rightly said that there is a great deal of consensus and that we are united on the main lines. We'll also emphasize that from our side. It is on some points that we look a little different at the situation and point things in some other way and emphasize things a little differently, but in the fight against terrorism and in the relationship with Iraq we are quite united. I addressed a challenge in my contribution to the Middle East, namely the assistance to the Palestinians. I'll come back a little bit and challenge the Council of State on that question. He said in his statement that we would now discuss our assistance with the Palestinian authorities to find the right balance. In Europe, inter alia: in the European Parliament, and in particular in Germany, the way in which these funds have been used in the past has been examined. Norway has also focused on this. It is clearly limited how retrospective one should be, but to the extent that the funds have been used for things that have not promoted the peace process – this was also the representative Rise inside his post – it is directly harmful and will help to prolong a bad conflict. I would challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to say something about how we can get on a good track and contribute to the fact that the funds given do not fall into the wrong hands and do not apply to measures that we all, I think, agree that it should not be used on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e820	Let me first say that the living conditions on the Palestinian side are very bad, very dramatic, too many people. It makes it important for the outside world to ensure that these conditions get better, both for purely humanitarian and political reasons, because I believe that the situation as it is, only leads to the creation of more and not less extremism. So I think there's a direct connection between the donor country's work we're doing, and working to get a political process going again. Although there are many objections to the policy that the Palestinian self-government authorities can pursue, it must not overshadow the fact that here it is a quite concrete, tactful challenge, which if we leave it behind, will only have even greater adverse effects. But at the same time, when said, I think there is reason to take the self-criticism that we, from the outside world, from the outside world, have hardly placed enough emphasis on democracy and human rights on the Palestinian side. That's a criticism I think we're going to take inwards, and that's exactly why we can contribute as much as we can to the ambitious reform programme that the Palestinians have now set in motion, precisely to address some of these challenges. I think it is very important that this reform programme now gets a real drag from both the Palestinians themselves and from the international community, and we should do what we can to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e827	Both the Foreign Minister and I are, as you can see, busy with music, and the opera definitely unites us. Who is the most musical of us, we have simply not tested out, but when I believe that the Foreign Minister is unmusical in relation to our European friends, it is because what I experience is a broad debate in Europe that goes on how to meet the new American security strategy, is a debate that our Foreign Minister does not want to go into. But I can try again. Our starting point is that the handling of Iraq cannot be seen isolated from this new American security strategy. The United States is developing new global driving rules that are not based on international law. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will then be whether he sees these links, and whether he believes that there is a link here that Norway also has to deal with when we are going to develop our positions in relation to Iraq. And the question is also whether he believes that a strategy that has preventive attacks as its core is a dangerous path for the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e834	There was absolutely no criticism on my part of referring to the broad European processes. We have also had another area, where I have noticed that I have not received any criticism, and that is the attitude we have towards the International Criminal Court, where I made it very clear that I think it is very valuable that we can align ourselves with other European countries. To this extent, Norway has also tried to get help from EU countries, and I understand that it is a general satisfaction that we have done so. So I am pleased with all the progress that is being made in that area as well. With regard to the question of the new American strategy, which is a document that comes from the American President at regular intervals, I have to say that when I did not go into it carefully now, it was because my theme was Iraq and not security policy in a broader sense. As far as Iraq is concerned, I fully agree with Mr Haga that there is one thing that belongs in the Security Council and multilaterally. There has been one of the main points in the Norwegian attitude for a long time to say that we don't want to do this alone, we want the UN track to be pursued. And the fact that President Bush gave the speech he gave in the main assembly, and that it is now working on the matter in the Security Council, is just a confirmation that yes, they have listened to our advice in that area. And so now it's working to get a resolution that's following this path. So I think it can be said that the Norwegian positions in these areas are precisely respected with regard to Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e843	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes it clear that Norway does not tolerate the wrongdoing of innocent people. It is not always right to follow the Bible’s words about turning the other cheek if you are attacked. Nor is it right to pass by or pretend that you do not see anyone being exposed to blind violence in the streets of Oslo. You have to care about your neighbor and use the means you're running to prevent it from being committed against innocent people. I see SV is concerned about what you risk by going to war. With that vision, you can actually drop the entire defense. But my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, what will he do if there is no free access for the inspectors in Iraq, or veto against the use of force against the country? And my second question is, what will the Foreign Minister do if the United States asks for help in an armed action against Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e852	I believe that in this area there is every reason to use the wording that Åslaug Haga used instead, namely, 'we're not there'. There is no reason now to speculate in hypotheses about situations that I both believe and hope that it will be possible to avoid. I feel quite certain that the Security Council will be able to work towards a decision. I just think there's so much at stake here that it'll be possible to reach a decision. I believe that on that basis it will also be such a clear rice behind the mirror that we will make Iraq accept the inspectors. And I'll be allowed to say that I'm glad that the Storting has no infections for what I said, namely that we need to have an inspection system without holes. I am pleased with what Åslaug Haga said that the Presidential Palaces must also be included. I feel that it is now important to work for a solution without the use of military resources. I think we're going to do it when it's the necessary political will behind it, and there's no need to start speculating in other scenarios than what I hope and think will be the real one.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e859	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e862	In contrast to the representative Haga and Foreign Minister Petersen, I am unmusical, and believe to the extent that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is more than enough European – to my liking. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, said earlier today in his speech that we could face ‘religions and regions that only understand themselves’. It is probably a precise description of what we can expect, and it should form the basis for part of the foreign policy debate in the future. In the past, these would have been exotic chapters in a textbook, but as the world looks today, there are no distant regions, no regions or religions that do not affect us. Then it doesn't matter to be too sloppy when we talk about religions and regions, but to throw a look inward into what we call the Western world, and see what abilities we ourselves have to see and understand others. We can also gradually develop a very narrow vision and get faster and faster to condemn other people's actions. Understanding must be one of the pillars of foreign policy, not to accept or to join, but to understand, in order to contribute to solutions. The situation was in itself better before, with two superpowers that entertained each other and the rest of the world with their balance of power. That it didn't end with disaster, probably not least because these two superpowers put great emphasis on understanding each other, understanding the reasons for each other's arguments and actions, and avoiding conflicts. Conflicts have also changed in the sense that the classical situation in which two or more States have territorial requirements as the basis for a conflict is more rare. There are other types of conflicts we now see, mostly within the same country and with different groups that stand against each other. There are ethnic conflicts, there are conflicts based on religion, or there are dreams of national empires, which we saw drifting away in the Balkans. In all of this, terrorism comes. And how are we going to deal with terrorism? More control? More locks? More barbed wire? New spring for the old-fashioned intelligence? A common and pervasive attitude to the objective of dedicating funds, and perhaps becoming a little looser at the edges in terms of legal certainty? Terrorism, therefore, does not follow any rules of the game, and terrorism sets the agenda. In addition, terrorism is so grotesque and so primitive that it is almost sacrilegious to claim that one should try to understand what is behind such actions. Nevertheless, what we have to do – not instead of what you already do, but also what you have to do. What conditions under which young people enter into such actions, and what can the world community do to remove or weaken these conditions? Fighting terrorism is used by many as a concept. I don't know what's in that term completely. I think you have to have a thorough discussion and get a definition of what it means to fight terrorism. So to what has been much debated here today. One can get the feeling that parts of the political environment both in Norway and elsewhere have the perception that the United States is able and willing to go beyond international law in relation to what is now going to happen in Iraq. You can think a lot about the United States, how to make things right in one area and another, but to think, expect and believe you probably have very little evidence for this. Everything indicates that this will happen under international law. The second thing I have the impression is that Norway does not simply distance itself from this. It is clear that in no circumstances will and may be involved in interference with this which is contrary to international law. I really didn't think it was necessary to have any special debate on that in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e876	In his statement yesterday, the Foreign Minister spent a lot of time on the tense situation between Iraq and the United States and a lot of time on the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. But the Foreign Minister seems to deal with the issues as separate from each other. However, the possible campaign against Iraq must be put into perspective by focusing on the situation in the Middle East. A campaign against Iraq without first having made any effort for peace for the Palestinians is a recipe for creating even bitterer contradictions, and if possible making the region an even more easily flammable powder keg. However, there will be no surprise if the Americans go to such a step. It will only be a confirmation of the double morals which too often have emboldened American foreign policy, on the one hand allegedly going to war for compliance with UN resolutions and for the defence of human rights, and on the other hand, in practice actively supporting Israel's sovereign arrogance against other UN resolutions and looking through the fingertips of the Palestinian people. Nor are these guidelines today about combating leaders or states that behave like bastards. It's about which side the bastards are on. That the Palestinian question is constantly being pushed into the background shows what a war against Iraq will really be about: American foreign and domestic policy considerations and the will of American leadership for power, control and dominance. In recent months, we have witnessed Israeli abuses that are difficult to interpret as anything but a clear statement of will to show that you are not being pressured by the UN. The acceleration of the buildings of the Palestinian self-government in Ramallah and the siege of Yasir Arafat are just acts that send such a clear signal about who is really in power in the area. These actions would hardly have been possible without the United States in some cases silent, in other cases declared acceptance. This places heavy responsibility on the countries and on the politicians who want to be the allies of the Americans, a responsibility to dry out the American policy in a completely different way than that. Norway has been willing to do so far. From most teams there is much talk about the importance of peace in the Middle East, but the cessation of violence alone is not the same as peace. Peace must be something more than the end of acts of terrorism, violence and ever-increasing military advances in the West Bank and Gaza. Real peace also depends on justice. A lasting peace in the region does not come until the Palestinians get back their opportunity to live normal life, their freedom to move and their ability to gain something to live on. Therefore, the conditions for peace are far more wide-ranging than the issues on which the current Israeli Government has shown itself willing to negotiate. Peace requires Israel to comply with UN resolutions on withdrawal from occupied territories, it requires a lasting solution for the refugees, real negotiations on the status of Jerusalem, support for the economic reconstruction of the Palestinian territories and, last but not least, a sovereign and internationally protected Palestinian State. If Norway is to have credibility when the government says it is working for peace, a tougher line is required towards the United States and Israel. The Foreign Minister is required to show clearly that he sees differences between those who occupy, and those who are occupied, between those who have a great military power and those who do not have it, and that he does not believe that any UN resolutions are less serious than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e889	I think this has been a rather depressing and depressing debate. That's, you might say, not so strange, because when the world situation is serious, there's no reason to be particularly merry. But I cannot understand why it should be that it is unheard of and inconvenient to discuss the serious developments now seen in relation to the United Nations, in relation to international law and in relation to the United States alone, while the debate is raging in Congress. I think that's pointless. I would very much like a completely different climate and a completely different attitude to discuss serious foreign policy issues. Although there are no simple answers to many of them, one of the really big challenges the world is now facing is that we're left with one superpower, economic and military, that can get along, that asks for a UN mandate, but that can blow it very easily if they don't get it. It's today's power relationship. Now it is not that the Foreign Minister has said that what is now the discussion about the situation in Iraq and the resolution discussed in the Security Council has something to do with the fight against terrorism. And that's important, because it's awfully important to distinguish between what's involved in the fight against weapons of mass destruction on the one hand, and the fight against terror on the other. Nor am I, at least, able to see that there is an internationally documented direct link between Saddam Hussein and Al Qaida, although there is some scattered information about it. We are now in a situation where I think it is extremely difficult to know what is the Norwegian attitude to the situation that the United States can address, can invoke completely different rights from those of other countries in the world, may feel that a regime change in one country is a good enough reason for an invasion, and may feel that it is reasonable to go for preventive attacks against other nations. In fact, there is a very different and much more serious international situation in which the interests of Norway, as a small country, are completely contrary to the interests of a superpower. There, I don't think you'll get a clear speech from the Norwegian government. Nor will I get an answer when I ask if it is not such that it would undermine the UN as an international arena for all nations if the five vetomacts in the United Nations were now to have special rights to send their ‘own’ weapons inspectors to the United Nations group of weapons inspectors. All of this undermines the ability of the United Nations to operate a supranational and effective international legal order – when there are people who are more alike than others. Then I think it's emotive that you haven't really thought about what you're at risk if you're going to invade Iraq, whether you have a clear decision in the Security Council or not. So we're in a situation where you say on the one hand that Saddam Hussein is ready at any time to use weapons of mass destruction, but where it's a fact that he hasn't done it or threatened to do it. And there's nothing in today's situation that would suggest that it's eaten more now than a year or two ago. But if you think Saddam Hussein is so dangerous and so ready to use weapons of mass destruction, why in the world shouldn't such a dangerous despot and dictator just use them in a situation where he saw that he had nothing more to lose? It is precisely a situation that can provoke the use of any weapons of mass destruction, if they exist there. That's the actual ratio. You can risk more with a war than without. Then, of course, the West's double morals are quite provocative in relation to this. Remember now that Saddam Hussein was created by the West. No one protested when Saddam Hussein used chemical weapons against Iran, on the contrary, Reagan blamed Iran at the time. The Financial Times can demonstrate that Dick Cheney’s own oil company, Halliburton, applied for a derogation from the sanctions provisions as late as 1998–1999. That time it was okay to use Saddam Hussein to make money. So it's the United States that has changed, not Iraq. Iraq has been just as bad all the way. [[President clubs]] I believe that these issues should have been addressed in the course of such an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e902	Will the representative Halvorsen address the proposals from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e905	I would very much like to raise two proposals from SV, which are distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e910	Kristin Halvorsen has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e913	There's a lot of learning to learn from the experiences we've had in Afghanistan. The Security Council Resolution 1368 was the basis for military operations and is an example of how to bring together a broad international resolution on a difficult but necessary armed action. Both at home and outside, there were skeptics and denouncing critics for the mission, but we have, as has been repeated several times during the day, to hear good about their alternative actions. The Foreign Minister stated in his statement that the actions in Afghanistan have led to a number of concrete and positive results in the fight against international terrorism. The training and training camps of Al Qaida have been destroyed, and the Taliban regime, which put the development of the country back decades, has been repressed. The challenge now is to continue the reconstruction of the country while the military operations are still in progress. At the same time, it ensures the security required to normalise civil society, but also to carry out the necessary humanitarian and aid operations. In this context, both ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF are still required. There's every reason to express recognition also from the Great Council for the way our Norwegian crews solve their part of the mission, in such a difficult situation. Reconstruction in Afghanistan has been strenuous and progressive towards heavy odds. From the Petersberg Conference to Loya Jirgaen, the leaders who have taken care of the fragile community that was created and that is now being built on. President Karzai's role seems invaluable. At the same time, he could hardly succeed without the Afghan people identifying him with this chance of an improved life and giving him his support. The more important it is that the international community allows action to follow words after its promises of financial assistance. At the Tokyo conference earlier this year, significant contributions were committed, but only small amounts have been reached until now until Karzai. There will be different justifications for the time lag of contributions from countries. One of the major countries in this context has stated that their own legislation requiring banking and audit structure makes it formally difficult to transfer funds to a country where precisely such structures are not in place. Here, the world community needs new work with significantly more concrete, direct and fast-acting driving rules. Where appropriate, through the agencies or other multilateral organisations of the United Nations, the necessary local financial structure must be established in temporary cooperation with the country of destination. If you can't do that, the cow can die while the grass grows, or Karzai and the Afghan innovation bends under with empty stomach and empty box. The ASG Presidency, the Afghan Support Group, provides Norway with a good opportunity to influence the further development of donor co-ordination and coordination of UN efforts. There is reason to be satisfied with our long-standing work in the support group. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also has full support in stressing the need for Norway to have a long-term perspective on the commitment to reconstruction in Afghanistan. In the fight against terrorism, the world community, through the UN, may again find it necessary to carry out military actions against individual countries. The experience of Afghanistan should teach us how important it is to see the military action, humanitarian action and reconstruction as integral parts of a total plan. One must assume that the willingness to assume the obligations in all three areas is already expressed in advance so that the measures can often be long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e936	I noticed in yesterday's statement that Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen has reinforced his views on the unexplained situation regarding Iraq and the uncertainties surrounding weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, and I am pleased about that. It has been seen that the Iraqi regime has been willing to use this type of weapon to achieve its objectives by invading neighbouring countries and killing thousands of its own citizens and Iranian soldiers with chemical weapons. It has also been seen that the regime has not been willing to comply with instructions given by the UN Security Council. The fact that Saddam Hussein has now made a choice where he sits for seven new years, by the fact that only yes-voices were delivered, and that everyone had the right to vote, does not make the situation easier. The short-term ability of Iraq to develop nuclear weapons if the regime obtains access to enriched uranium and has the delivery systems that allow it to attack neighbouring countries makes it urgent to bring inspectors in, including in the large areas where the palaces are located. This must be done by a new resolution which gives a clear deadline and unhindered access to all areas. We can't wait ten new years. Clearly, a firm attitude on the part of the West is the only language the regime understands. Penalties have not so far advanced. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that all experience suggests that promises from the regime in Baghdad must be viewed with a significant degree of scepticism, and that there is a broad international consensus that the Security Council is actively committed to the full elimination of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and means of delivery. A new decision in the Security Council must contain a clear and unambiguous warning of power use unless the instructions of the Security Council are complied with. It is also important that the Security Council be united. The terrorist attack on Bali also shows that the fight against groups using weapons of mass destruction against civilian targets, which have access to new types of explosives, must be combated by the international community, in order to move safely around the world without fear. That is why I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that military action must go hand in hand with political, diplomatic, legal and economic instruments, but it is important to show firmness and not give in to terrorism. The situation in the Middle East is tragic both for the Israeli and Palestinian civilian populations, and the situation seems to be locked down. Here, there has been a clear view of the fact that Israel is the great ugly wolf, and that the Palestinians are the little lamb. Here it is important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth and try to understand the situation for both parties. Israel is of the South-Tronde Team size and is under constant attack on the civilian population from suicide bombers. It is not surprising that action is being taken against the bases of such terrorist attacks in order to protect civilians. It is a great responsibility on the part of the Palestinian leadership to stop these senseless acts of terrorism, but so far there is little will to condemn and stop such actions, which is the responsibility of President Arafat. When you know that more than half the Palestinian population is out of permanent work, and many depend on working inside Israel, it is all the more important to work together in peace. It is therefore important that the international community try to understand both sides, and not unilaterally condemn the one party. It does not create a good negotiating climate. A peace settlement must be based on a negotiated solution that is acceptable to both sides. We must be actively involved in the fight against terrorism and support the fight against weapons that threaten the existence of innocent lives. We must not give in to acts of terrorism that concern us all, and we must go to countermeasures that ensure our descendants a safe world without fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e953	The President proposes that those who are given the floor below should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e956	I asked for the word to comment on the two proposals put forward by SV. In proposal No In that case, the Government is instructed to oppose motions for resolutions which may involve the use of military force against Iraq. In proposal No 1 we instruct, if it is adopted, the Government to take the initiative in international instruments against Israel, without in this case being explicitly said not to use military power. It seems that the proposer is not consistent in his view on the type of instruments to be used. In addition, we should go against instructing the Government on how to act in this phase in the Security Council. We must assume that the Government is listening to the debate that has been held here, and that you know where the majority of the Grand Duchy is when the time comes to vote in the Security Council. That's how we have to understand the relationship between government and expansion under the Constitution. I would like to take a thoughtful example of what kind of situation you might face if you were to instruct the Government about, for example. to support the French proposal. We know that France and the other four permanent veto acts in the Security Council are negotiating a resolution text. Then it's perfectly possible that France is going away from its original position, and is making a compromise. Then the government is left with an instruction from the Storting to follow a position that the proposer no longer has, and it shows how hopeless it is of the Storing to instruct the Government explicitly about how to act in the Security Council. It is only the Government, through its office in the Security Council, that has a full overview of how to handle it from hour to hour. But we have had a debate that has given clear signals, and I will assume that the Government wants, of course, to have contact with the Stortinge if there is a situation that is difficult in the Security Council – when the time comes for us to vote. But we're not there now. That is why I would urge the Labour Party to vote against the proposals put forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e963	This debate has shown that in some respects there is a broader consensus in the Stortinget than one could possibly get the impression through pre-post-fects in the press and elsewhere. Among other things, I have registered that clarifications have been made on the part of the Progress Party pointing to the fact that the party is closer to the Government and in this case the largest opposition party, the Workers' Party, in the view of the Middle East conflict than one has previously been able to get the impression of. It's a pleasure. At the same time, I have noticed with increasing wonder that SV's leader argues as if someone had tried to limit the freedom of expression in Stortinget. Of course, in a foreign debate, all parties and representatives in this Chamber are free to talk about what they want, including the foreign policy of other countries. Of course. But what Stortinget is responsible for is Norway’s foreign policy. Then you might expect that this mouth into some trace of an alternative, an alternate line. In its time SV became a foreign-policy opposition party, and broke out of the Workers' Party because the course that had been followed throughout the post-war foreign policy in Norway was fundamentally disagreeable. Today, it is not easy to see what SV's options are, except that there is always the greatest disagreement in the current US foreign policy. You could almost get the impression in today's debate of a kind of undertone of nostalgia, that you had great sympathy for previous forms of strategy from the United States or NATO. The truth is that SV has always been equally strong against what has been the Western foreign and security policy in question. For my part, I have not been able to locate anywhere in this debate, except that there is dissatisfaction with Norwegian foreign policy. I have not been able to perceive any recommendation of an alternative line, because the small suggestion that perhaps Europe, the mouth, as far as I understood, would not be to seek a link with European security policy and defence policy cooperation. That was an argument for not allying with the United States or Europe. And then it can be quite lonely with a Norwegian on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e974	Just a brief note at the end of the debate. Of course, it's not like that in the first proposal there is a desire for the use of military action against Israel, if there are any misunderstandings. So to Inge Wage. I can't refuse Inge Wohnning to keep many posts in the course of an hour's debate in this magnificence, but without any content. It's a democratic right that Inge Wohnung has, and that everyone else should have. But I can see that it is not particularly encouraging when it is not possible actually to enter into a real debate about the developments that are not about discussing the foreign policy of the United States, but about how the balance of power is distorted, and how it becomes more difficult to get to a United Nations-led world order, when the United States behaves as they do. In that case, I think it is alarming to say that those who do not believe that military action should be threatened in any conflict are the ones who are left without action. That's not the way to discuss international difficult and complicated questions with a significant degree of risk, no matter what you choose. The truth is that the Western policy towards Iraq has been totally unsuccessful throughout the 1990s. Penalties have been implemented which have greatly affected the civilian population and which Norway has worked actively to change when it saw how it affected the civilian population and various groups did not receive the necessary medicines. But the West has also totally failed to build up or encourage an alternative to Saddam Hussein. For at least ten years, you have neither been able to find nor build something that can be a credible alternative. That's why another part of a possible invasion in Iraq is a significant gambling, because the whole nation can do this apart and you don't know what's ready to take over. All this should have been the subject of the debate, in the opinion of the SV, to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e991	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 240]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1006	The setting is unanimous, and there is no need for any significant additions to what has been said in the setting. I just want to be allowed to make the Stortinget aware that the reference given in the position of the corresponding position on French School, which the Stortinget treated in ours, is meant to be a reminder that developments in these two school offers, the French-speaking and German-speaking school offerings in Oslo, make it important to ask the Government to follow the developments closely. It is gratifying that we have put in place the two agreements with the French state and the German state, respectively, which facilitate some of the economic pressure in these two schools, and which enable them to keep the school money at a level that does not directly exclude the majority of interested applicants. But that is not a satisfactory solution in view of the future. It turns out that the increase in the search for these schools that have taken place in recent years, which I consider to be a pleasure, is an increase in parents where either one or both are Norwegian, i.e. Norwegian-speaking parents who, for various reasons, believe that this school offer is a particularly good school offer for their child. We cannot fall back on the reasoning that we have had so far and that is also the basis for the negotiations with the French State and the German State, respectively, namely the idea that these are in principle foreign schools, that is. offers to foreign nationals who are staying in a foreign country for a short or long time. That's the way it used to be, it's not like that anymore. When there is reason to be concerned about this, it is because in Norway we have a problem with education policy that we have had for many years, and which seems to be increasingly difficult, namely that the position of other foreign language in Norwegian school and in Norwegian society has been seriously weakened. Faced with current European and international developments, there is a worrying situation. Therefore, all measures that can help raise awareness of central cultures and languages in Europe in addition to the Anglo-Saxon countries must be in the interests of the Norwegian State. In that respect, I hope that the Government will follow the recommendation contained in the recommendation, and take it into account in the further work to facilitate the working conditions of both the French School and the German School in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1015	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 241]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1031	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1040	Olaf Gedrem, who is a spokesperson, is absent today, and so I keep his and the Christian People's Party's posts. It is a well-known matter that the issue of incorporating the baby food directive has taken a long time for several governments. The essence is that the diet of Norwegian young children is somewhat different from that of many EU countries. We know that many Norwegian children become breast-feeding for a long time, that many get tears or other vitamin supplements, and that Norwegian children have a lot of grain-based iron-rich grass. In this way, Norwegian children get what they need from vitamins A and D and other nutrients. The Children's Food Directive will open up the possibility of additions of vitamins A and D directly to the grass product with very high maximum limits. Because Norwegian children take a lot of grass and in addition take tears or corresponding supplements, one can see that the total amount of vitamin A and vitamin D that children can absorb can be too much of the good, at least for some children. There is no understanding from the EU side that there is a strange situation, and there is pressure on Norway. We certainly do not know which countermeasures could come from the EU side if we had not followed up, but we know that a possible Norwegian veto could put Norway's participation in the European food security work at risk. The health of EEA cooperation must also be taken into account. The government, therefore, in consultation with the professional bodies, has sought to find a solution within the EEA Agreement, which also guarantees health for Norwegian children – and the Government is clear. It's going to add up to 16 million. kr for remedial measures over the period 2002-2006. The following measures are: to ensure an overview of the composition of the baby food product on the Norwegian market, including: through the development and operation of reporting systems for the products of the State Food Authority Dietary Studies among infants and young children, where appropriate, the revision of recommendations for infant nutrition and the development of new dietary competences and material for health professionals, in particular at health centres information centres for young children’s parents and other key groups of contacts with industry in relation to enrichment practices; The only point that makes Norwegian baby foods have to change is that the baby foods directives apply to their minimum values for protein, vitamin A and vitamin D in the grass product. The minimum values are low, and good raw materials should not require enrichment. But if the values of these points are too low in a product, some enrichment is now required. This does not cause any health problems. Apart from the abovementioned minimum limits, baby foods producers and food chains in Norway have stated clearly that they do not intend to start with vitamin enrichment or other enrichment of baby foods to be sold in Norway. The reason is that there is no wish on the Norwegian market to do so. It is therefore unlikely that the directive on baby food will be a dietary problem. Nevertheless, the governance, through dietary studies and the new registration system, will always keep the overview in case the diet of Norwegian children would change, or in case the enriched product would still enter the market. I am sure that everyone in this room is very busy with the greetings of Norwegian children. And we have agreed that Norwegian children are entitled to a healthy diet and good dietary advice. I also believe that today's debate will show that we agree on it. At the same time, a large majority in the Chamber is concerned with maintaining the EEA Agreement and with the broader European food security work. I'm busy with both. With the compensatory measures, we can do both, i.e. both for a safe diet for Norwegian children and for the EEA Agreement. In this context, I feel certain that the Government has found in a good way remedial measures, so that the scepticism that one has had for this introduction can be put aside, and that this can be done in a good way. Finally, I must say that we are looking around, we see that children in most European countries, including in the other Nordic countries, seem to be living reasonably well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1085	Yes, that was a confession!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1088	The baby foods Directives regulate the composition and marketing of cereal-based products and other baby foods intended for infants and young children between four months and three years of age. Cereal-based products include baby roots, pasta, rusks and biscuits. The Directive provides a framework for the content of certain nutrients in specific foodstuffs, e.g.: content of vitamin A and vitamin D in prepared cereal-based foods. A amending Directive adopted in the EU sets maximum limits for vitamins and minerals in the products in question. There are considerable differences between countries in infant nutrition. In Norway, we have a built-in tradition of using iron-rich wheat and vitamin D and vitamin A supplements, mainly through the use of tran in the first year of life. The Baby Food Directives mean that cereals may be placed on the market with a higher content of nutrients than is the case in the products present on the Norwegian market today. In addition, other products may be added to more nutrients intended for children. The Directive provides for vitamin D addition to vegetables to be added only to water or other protein-free bag in order to be ready to eat. The EU Children’s Food Directive was adopted in 1996 and has since been one of several problem directives for Norwegian politicians. The EU has responded to what has been perceived as an attempt to train from the Norwegian side, and there are opportunities for countermeasures to be implemented that would put parts of the EEA Agreement out of effect if Norway did not include the Directives. For the Progress Party, it is no surprise that the Government is now in favour of implementing the directives in Norwegian law. The result had certainly been the same with a government based on the Workers' Party. Experience with the EEA Agreement so far has shown that it will be a part of this before the political majority is able to take advantage of the inability to know. A possible veto from Norway against the implementation of the baby food directives has been assessed against the impact of EU Member States’ responses, including: for the general food safety work. The EU can now open its doors to Norwegian liaison with its new agencies, which also include the Food Safety Agency. The Progress Party supports the Government’s position on this matter and is in agreement with the majority of the comments in the vote. Based on a comprehensive assessment of benefits and disadvantages, we agree with the EU Children's Food Directive. We believe that it can facilitate safe conditions by monitoring developments. But the job has to be done. Health professionals need to be trained about the possible consequences of the new rules. At the same time, the authorities will closely monitor the products on the market by recording the addition of the products concerned and by working closely with the food industry. In this way, it will be possible to address the nutritional challenges related to the baby food directives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1103	Through the three EEA directives we are dealing with today, we are required to amend Norwegian rules introduced to protect our health. These Directives accept that baby foods are added to a greater quantity of proteins, iron, sugars and vitamins than they do today. Norwegian professional authorities have been warning against these directives for several years. By January 2000 at the latest, the National Council for Nutrition and Physical Activity produced a report on most of the hazards. A leading precaution indicates that one does not add more vitamins, minerals and additives than is nutritionally necessary. Children are differently disposed of in relation to overdoses of vitamins and other types of food additives in the diet. In unfortunate cases, the damage can be very serious. Its name is, among other things, in the report of the Council for Nutrition and Physical Activity of the State that too much protein can burden the kidneys of young children unresponsibly. It also states that excessive intake of vitamin A may damage both the skin, mucous membranes and the central nervous system. Furthermore, it states that excessive intake of vitamin D can lead to calcium deposits in kidneys and blood vessels. Skewing Norwegian governments have been trying for six years to turn away from these directives. The Swedish and Danish voted against but were required to follow them by the EU. The reason is that if some countries have stricter limits than those set by the directives, the flow of goods will be affected. Then some baby foods will not be able to float freely anywhere. The desire for free flow is ahead of the health of the child. Instead of insisting on the Norwegian legislation, the Government is betting on what it calls compensatory measures. This means that baby food should be monitored better, but no one can react if the manufacturer adheres to EU rules. For six years, the National Council for Nutrition and Physical Activity has warned against the EU Directives because they lead to unacceptable high health risks for vulnerable groups of children. As an EU member, Sweden and Denmark have to bow to such EU rules. Norway is not allowed to do that. The EEA Agreement gives us a right of reservation, often referred to as the right of veto in the EEA Agreement. In this case, we must use this right of veto because the directive violates our important work among children and young people for good health and safe food. The majority indicate that it is the EEA-wide cooperation that requires us to implement the scheme. That means we don't have to use the veto right, because then the EU comes and takes us. But what do we know about that? We've never used the veto before. I have the impression that Norway is the highest in the class when the EU shouts. SV believes that we have to overcome this jump.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1118	It is a long run to be concluded today in relation to the fight against a baby food directive that nobody really wants – not political authorities and political parties, not professional bodies and not consumers either, I believe. Who really wants a directive that exposes children to what the professional bodies say can lead to the adverse health supply of different substances? However, as usual, a majority in the United Kingdom chooses to say that it should be a part of the right to veto in the EEA Agreement, a right of veto that we have negotiated and which should be one of the differences between a Norway that has said no to EU membership and a Norway that has opted instead to have an EEA agreement. It is clear that one of the issues that remains after the debate today when one cannot use the veto right in a directive like this is: Where will one then use the veto right? Where does this issue of EEA Agreement and veto law end? Is there any room at all for vetoing, when one is not going to do so in relation to a directive that we have before us today? It may be an open question following the examination of current directives. Children in other countries do not live anything worse than children in Norway, and they look as healthy and healthy as children in Norway. The point here is that there may be different child diets in different countries. In Norway, we don't give the children so much compotes and stuff when they're small, they're breast-feeding pretty much until they're six months old, and then they're going to get porridge and tears. Thus, in relation to the composition of diets, the directives represent a greater hazard to the diet of Norwegian children than to the diet of children in many EU countries. However, the type of variation that it warrants, and which professional authorities have said we should take into account, cannot be allowed as long as the issue of the marketing of baby food is dealt with as a trade policy issue more than a nutritional issue. The fact of the matter we are dealing with today is that children's diet should not be seen as a matter of neither health nor nutrition, but as a trade policy issue. Then there's no room for inequality sail if all reason suggests that it should be. Nor do I think there is any comfort in saying that with the minimum requirements you have, it will not be harmful. Producers in Norway could also intend to benefit from a full exemption from additives. They are required to have a minimum content. This applies, for example: Tine Small people products. One could say that the minimum content is not harmful. But the point is that there is a disclaimer from state authorities and from Norwegian public health that it should now be the parents who have to go around and calculate the levels of vitamins and minerals in baby foods to determine whether they think it is sustainable and safe to give it to their children or not. It's unnecessary, and it makes your parents more insecure. I think it's giving 16 million. to monitor and warn consumers against health risks as a result of some new directives that none of us would like to have are unnecessary use of public funds. There are some of us who believe that the public should have room to spend money on both the one and the other. But that's the way it is today, the people who are the least concerned about public spending on money, who are willing to look through their fingers about spending 16 million. kr on something that should not be necessary, if one was so free that one used the right to veto that is actually in the EEA Agreement, and said: So far but no longer, this case cannot be included in Norway. As I said, I am a little unsure whether there is really any veto right in the EEA Agreement when we do not use it in relation to the directive that is ahead of us today. As the Minister of Health is sitting here, I have to say that it will be exciting to see in relation to the Patent Directive when it comes. But otherwise, it's the Center Party's conclusion that today we're choosing to implement something that nobody wants, spend 16 million. kr on something that is completely unnecessary, and to carry out something that is not good for Norwegian children's diet, and that we have fought against for a long time. This would have been unnecessary in view of the fact that we could have exercised the legitimate right we have in relation to the EEA Agreement. On that basis, I would like to take up the proposal that the Central Party and SV agree in the setting, to veto the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1135	Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1138	I think I'll choose to start by saying that we're all well equally concerned with the content of the term safe food here in this room. I think it is going to be difficult in the Storting to find budget lines that have had greater growth and plus in themselves for the last two, three years than just the posts that are going on monitoring, control and information about the concept of safe food. Long-term effort is needed to find budget lines that have been higher and better prioritised by an overall increase in development in this sector. On that basis, I have a certain sense and understanding that Marit Arnstad seems to grant 16 million. kr for this purpose may appear unnecessary. But I'm assuming that we have different points of view. The representatives Lilletun and Hedstrøm have been involved in the content and background of the Directive and have given good reasons why the majority are in favour of incorporating the Directive into Norwegian law. I just record, as very predictable, that as well as the Central Party does not have any special scruples in trying out the system, that one will seek a flight further that goes on to break a cooperation that, after all, has gone on with the EU today, which is very important, on food security. And you want that situation to persist where we're going to sit outside and not have an impact. In fact, one now wants to retest this so-called veto system, knowing that it is possible to find evidence of advice and instructions given by the Norwegian professional authorities on the 1996 road, which has been tried against the Commission in 1998 and 2000. At the same time, however, it is known that the possibility of changing the content of the Directive, with the justification given by the Commission, has been exhausted, that reference is made to the fact that the Directive has been practised in the EU without any health side effects being reported after the Directive has been incorporated into EU legislation. Therefore, it becomes a little surprising that you want to go so strongly and so high on the ground in this case, and with a little mistrust that the compensatory and remedial measures taken in accordance with the Directorate of Social and Health and the State Food Safety should have some effect. I have strong confidence that this does not have the effects, that this does not have the consequences, which the representatives of the SV and the Central Party want to warn so strongly against. But I see the need to test the system around a veto, from another political point of view. But I have no interest in testing this system, when at least you should know what kind of consequences such a test can have for all Norwegian trade with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1149	I noticed the representative of Kristiansen's opinion that the EEA Directive into which we have been included was to be tested by the SV and the Senterpartiet. That's just the point. It should be tested. We entered into an EEA agreement with which there was a certain agreement among the people. We said no to the EU, but we signed the EEA Agreement on the condition that we could veto it, that we could say no if it was too wrong. The minority in this room is against the Children's Food Directive. After all, we are dealing with this under case No. 4th@item: inlistbox But we have the full right under our EEA agreement to veto, to say no. What's wrong with the baby food we've had in Norway until today? What's wrong with it? There must be something wrong when it is necessary for the EEA to oblige us, through a directive, to change this baby food. We have now grown up all of us who are sitting in this room and have had baby food in us under the directive that was before the EEA, and it does not appear that we are failing some of the world's things. What's going to happen in 30-40 years, we don't know anything about it, because this is what we're required by an EEA directive and an EU membership, which is a b-membership, and which we agree to in this room. I want to signal that I support the SV and the Central Party in their scepticism to introduce this directive. We have tricked the Norwegian people when we have concluded an EEA agreement and said that we can veto, that we can say no – and we cannot do that anyway. That is why I listened with interest to the comments of the representative Kristiansen. We tricked the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1160	The president just wants to add that a little bit sicker we're all probably. But what's the reason for that is not good to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1164	I guess we should be glad that there are compensatory measures in this way. Based on an overall assessment, the Government in spring concluded that the Babysitting Directive will be implemented in Norway. It has been difficult to decide because of the health concerns raised by the competent authorities about the Directive. The safety and safety of the health of children has been crucial in this matter. This is the background to the government's emphasis on finding good compensatory measures, which I will come back to. I will clearly reject claims here in the Chamber that the free movement of goods goes ahead of children's health. Over several years, Norway has tried to get EU-wide enforcement and acceptance of our health objections to the Children’s Food Directive. The EEA and EFTA countries have on two occasions requested adjustments to the Directive from the Commission. These requests have not met with understanding within the Commission. These include: the fact that the Directive has been implemented in all 15 Member States without any adverse effects being detected to date. The Government subsequently assessed that all possibilities for negotiating adaptations to the Directive had been exhausted. An overall assessment of our interests and wants us to engage with the EU in the process of increasing food security in Europe. As I said at the outset, the Government has placed great emphasis on finding a solution that takes care of the health aspects of this case. First of all, we wanted to maintain the strangest practice in this area. When we have not achieved this in the EU, we are focusing on an alternative strategy with comprehensive and adequate compensatory measures. The measures are fully consistent with the technical advice of the Social and Health Directorate and the State Food Safety Authority, which is responsible for their practical implementation. Monitoring of children’s diet and control of baby food products shall be strengthened at the same time as increased information activities for health professionals and parents. The measures require a resource framework of 7 million. kr for the period 2002-2004. That's 3 million. kr proposed in 2003. In addition, institutions will contribute approx. Nine million. kr over a five-year period over its ordinary budgets. In the light of these measures, the Government considers that the implementation of the Directive is fully justified. The Social and Health Directorate and the National Food Safety Authority have given very high priority to the work on these measures and work has started well. Information measures have been implemented and draft Norwegian legislation has been prepared on the basis of the Directive. As part of this Regulation, it is proposed, as a national provision, that all products covered by this Regulation be notified to the Food Authority of the State. In the short term, large changes in the composition of baby foods on the Norwegian market are unlikely to occur. Representatives from the Norwegian food industry have stated that they wish to maintain current enrichment practices as far as possible, even after the implementation of the Directive. The derogation shall be the minimum limits to be complied with. These are not considered to lead to an increased risk of health damage. Norway must also authorise the supply and sale of products containing products up to the maximum levels laid down for, for example: Vitamins A and D. The reporting obligation will ensure good control of the products and provide an overview of the market. Norwegian food shall be safe for health. In the future, young children’s parents should also be able to feel confident that the food they give to their children is safe. I would therefore like to stress that the decision to implement the Directive in Norway would not be taken if we feared that children’s health was at stake. Here it's about two paths to the same goal. We've tried every opportunity to get through with one way, which would be a continuation of the strangest practice. And I can say, based on my own work on this matter over several years, we've tried everything. We've turned all the stones. Then there is the other way to the goal, which the Government has recommended, namely compensatory measures in accordance with what the professional authorities have asked for and said is necessary. What they have asked for and said is necessary, the Government has agreed. I asked the professional authorities in connection with the work on this matter: what will be the status after the implementation of these compensatory measures – will there be a proper situation in relation to the situation we have today? And the answer I got was that it gets better. It is then difficult for me to understand that representatives in this room can look at this response from the professional authorities and claim that we set free movement of goods before the health of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1190	The Council of State on nutrition and physical activity presented a report in January 2000. At the time, as it is now, Dagfinn was the Minister of Health at the time – correctly in the central government. The Council of State said to the Official Journal of Bergen on 16 January 2000 that ‘Norway has good reasons to reject the Directive’. In today's government he has come to a different result. In the same newspaper, i.e. the magazine of Bergen, adviser Bodil Blaker was given the opportunity to say his view. She said the following about vitamin D: ‘Excessive intake of this vitamin can lead to very serious health damage, even in the worst cases death’. I would like to ask the Council of State: what has changed since January 2000 so that you now have a different attitude than the one you had at the time? And does the Council of State see it as relevant that the Government can at any time consider using this veto right that we have negotiated under the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1202	I must say to the representative Ryan that, in relation to my 2000 statement that Norway has good reasons to reject the directive, nothing has changed. Norway has had good reasons to reject the Directive. Regarding the issue of the content of the reports of the Council of State on nutrition and physical activity, there is nothing in the reports that has changed either. However, what has happened in the meantime is that we have been tried in all conceivable and unimaginable ways these good reasons towards the EU system, and we have had to see that we have come to the end. The possibilities of making adaptation agreements have been tried, exhausted, and we haven't made it through. The question then arises: can the same thing be achieved through other instruments? And the professional authorities have given a good answer: Yes, you can. Then the government said, "Yes, then we do it, because it's not a goal in itself to use the veto right." The veto is there as a last resort if you don't have other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1209	I understand that this has not been a simple matter for the Government, nor for some of the government parties. I have every respect for the fact that this has been a difficult matter. But there are still a few things about what the Health Minister says, which I have to ask questions about. The Health Minister here says that with regard to the compensatory measures, the answers he received were that they are not just as good, but better. But if that is the case, one should simply say that this is a good proposal – it is a good proposal that we include this directive and implement these measures. But that's not the attitude you take. On the contrary, one explains why it's so difficult and why one has still not been able to veto. It makes me bust. I understand that the Council of State got a little hurt that it was said that one by moving freely puts children's health aside. I'm not the one who said it – it's SV. But let me try to say that in the way I said it in my speech: can the Council of States agree that, through such a directive, one does not allow for the variations which should be subject to different rules in different countries based on nutritional and dietary conditions, because one chooses to implement a directive where this is primarily regarded as a commodity, and that there is trade in baby food primarily about this? Would the Council of State think that there's a point in that? It is clear that the questions of principle remain in relation to the EEA Agreement. For a party like the Christian People's Party, which is against EU membership, the question must be: is there at all any occasion where there is going to be used veto, no matter how important a matter is?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1220	I don't think it needs to appear as so very surprising when a government is willing to put in 16 million. In addition to nutrition policy, in terms of instruments, in order to achieve some of the things we could achieve through the curious legislation, the professional authorities, based on their assessment, will then find that this is an adequate alternative and that it is actually better. When changing governments — including this one — have tried to further the curious legislation, it is, as the representative Arnstad and others here in this Chamber have pointed out, that good alternative uses of these resources are available. But it has not been possible to reach the point of maintaining Norwegian practice, and that is why we have chosen a line that the professional authorities say is perfect as an alternative line, yes, that is. In that case, I do not think that there should be any involvement in creating uncertainty among young children's parents as to whether Norwegian policy is actually safe. When it comes to the question of the veto right, I would like to point out what I said in my previous reply: there is no objective in itself – at least not for this government – to use the veto right. The right of veto is a safety valve when everything else is impossible, and that is not the situation in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1232	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 241]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1242	We should then be ready to go to the vote on the matter on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1365	During the debate, Kristin Halvorsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take initiatives that could lead to international instruments against Israel as a result of Israel’s action in the occupied territories and to press Israel to comply with UN resolutions.’ 2 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the Security Council to resolve the conflict with Iraq by non-military means, and asks the Government to oppose motions for resolutions which may involve the use of military power against Iraq.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1379	The Group of the Centre Party will initially vote against the two proposals of the Socialist Left Party, not because we do not sympathise with the proposals, but we do not see it as natural that the Bigholding imposes on the Government on these kinds of questions. Foreign policy issues should be resolved on an ongoing basis through the forums we have in Stortingen to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1384	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1396	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stortinget meeting on 16 October 2002 on relevant foreign policy issues be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-17.ana.ud1965e1419	During the debate, Ms Arnstad put forward proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to veto the introduction of EU baby food Directives 96/5/EC, 98/36/EC and 99/39/EC.’ The Committee had ceased: The size consents to the approval of the Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No. 32/2002 of 19 April 2002 on the inclusion of baby food directives in the EEA Agreement. [[96/5/EC, 98/36/EC and 1999/39/EC]]
