ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e59	The President will address with the Stortinget the question of changing the weekly programme, when we have to set up a meeting after the grand meeting today to elect the president of Odelstinget's minutes tomorrow. Can the Storting join this change to the weekly program? - It's passed. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund For Oslo: Akhtar Chaudhry For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Torstein Rudihagen from 12 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Reidun Gravdahl, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e99	Reidun Gravdahl is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and complete voting after that date. 1-3 on today's map has been completed, and then total voting after case No. 4 to 6 at the end of the day’s meeting. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e119	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e128	I am delighted to present to the Committee on Energy and the Environment its position on the promises made to the State budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment. At the same time, I take up suggestions that SV has alone, and suggestions that SV is included in the option. When it comes to numbers in the budget, they come out through a number of government parties and the Progress Party. Unfortunately, in the Committee they have found it necessary to cut research even more, leading to less research efforts. It almost seems to me that a person wants to limit the knowledge of energy and the environment through those cuts a do. That think SV is a mistake. In the case of framework-independent proposals, many good proposals will be adopted in the SV's view. Let me use some words at that. The only thing is that one should go in and look at how the yard industry is doing. We know that, among other things: Kværner Egersund lost a mission to Dragados in Spain because, in my opinion, it may seem that EU countries are subsidising its yard industry. We then have to go from Norway, because of the EEA Agreement of this heresy, and see what we can do to secure Norwegian shipyards. It is one of the things that Stortinget today agrees to, although SV wants one to go even further into the meaning of the EEA Agreement. The majority also clearly state to the Minister for the Environment that we should have a report on the Cartwork. The Minister for the Environment replied boldly and freely to the majority saying that he would not present a message when the majority agreed earlier, but now he announces that he will do so. Another issue in which the majority of people try to clean up is questions related to network pricing. One had asked for a case about this, and got a case in the state budget that very few could read and very few understood. That is why the majority of the population decided that the case should be sent back to the Council of State, and we demand a new case, where we get a proper assessment of network pricing, and where we get concrete suggestions on how we can do pricing, which will benefit many. That it is necessary for the majority to intervene in a government treatment, e.g. on network pricing and the state's maps, I think I'm a little sorry, but I'm assuming that one now cleans up once and for all, and that one doesn't want to do this again. SV is also very pleased that a multiple, all with the exception of the government party, ends up with a proposal to look at how one can increase the extraction rate on a Norwegian base. We know that if we increase it from 44 p.m., as he is today, to 50 p.m., according to the Oil Directorate, the income potential is 400 billion kroner. Then it's wrong for SV to think that one seems to prioritize searching in the Barents Sea, instead of looking at what possibilities you have to get more out of the wells. So this is getting multiple numbers today, and it's SV happy, but it surprises us that the government party is standing outside of such a good proposal. The electricity price is a hot topic for the time, naturally. SV was in its time towards the deregulation that the Senterpartiet and Eivind Reiten did in their time together with the Arbeidarpartiet. What was said then was that when a market was put in place, the price would go down. There was something of the foundation from the plural. More market power would create lower prices. Then I have to ask the multiples, like that time, if that's what's going on. I don't see anything about this, but I see that the price path and path, and the consumers are getting lighter and lighter on this system that would make the power cheaper. Then it is necessary to see what you can do. Then it is not enough that the energy companies and the state are happy to increase their revenues, then you have to look at active measures that can reduce power consumption beyond what the market itself is doing. SV is therefore actively focusing on measures that can reduce the consumption of electricity and bring down the electricity bill to people. But that's not the government's priority. The government actually prioritizes tax relief to the rich above that. They give priority to cheaper spirits. And take a sharp one, it might be that you get warm for a while, but there's no action that goes on for a long time, what has multiples here in the Storting. So this is the wrong priority from the Government's side. Therefore, SV provides the Government with a different multiplicity, which can reduce the consumption of electricity and thus reduce the electricity billing to people and save the environment and reduce the pressure on the development of gas power plants. Last night, we presented a proposal for a Swedish support system, which can reduce consumption, which aims to support water-borne heat, which aims at supporting heat pumps, and which aims at supporting pellet stoves and solar collectors. This is a concrete proposal that the Government can get more if they want to do something about the power consumption and the price. SV has otherwise delivered and today a number of good suggestions that can help address the power price issue and the power consumption, if our will is there. PCB pollution in Norwegian ports and fjords is well known and has our talk about for decades. But the will to clean up is less, although as well the government as the bulk of the population plus some crowds of millions. When we know that these environmental taxes mean that fish and crustaceans are dangerous to eat, we're not betting enough. With the tempo that the multiples have added, it will take several decades for you to clean up this. This is what SV will do. We increase the permissions of this cleanup significantly, and suggest that we get a stepping-up plan. In this respect, SV has tried to include the Minister for the Environment in this plan of escalation, but we have had a major problem in getting a proper answer to the issue – without suggesting that the Minister for the Environment does not want anyone to be on the offensive in such an important matter as this one. And if the Minister for the Environment wants to, then SV can contribute to an escalation in this important matter, but it is asking whether environmental issues are so important to the Minister for the Environment any longer. In addition, SV has a number of measures to strengthen environmental organisations and outdoor organisations, while providing for active and health-promoting recreation in nature. We have protection measures, and we have measures for national parks. Besides, we're increasing the effort when it comes to the wild axis, which many people are busy getting into nature and fishing up. But the trust in this government when it comes to wild game is equal to zero after the concession awards given by Ludvigs with the approval of the Minister for the Environment, and the 50 concessions with which a new budget is aged and which no one wants, nor the aquaculture industry. So here's something that's spinning wrong. Twelve organisations, including the whole environmental movement, demand action for the wild species. The Minister for the Environment is not listening. The government chooses tax relief for rich people and more power for the power of money. It cuts in environmental and energy research, it builds up Snow White and gas power plants, it weakens the efforts to save the wild species by distributing farming concessions, and hopes for the market when people and the country need to reduce power consumption and measures to reduce power consumption. The government is characterized by high and nice talk about the environment, but there are very often large words with empty wallets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e168	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. In addition, the President would point out that referring to an agreement concluded by a majority of the Grand Duchy with other countries, such as a ‘ruler’ agreement, is hardly particularly parliamentary. – Then I was told. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e175	In its main priorities under the Ministry of Oil and Energy, SV says that ‘the 2003 budget should start a new direction for Norwegian energy policy’. And on the other hand, ‘The reason for this is Norway’s unique position in the world, as well as the increased need to reduce environmental problems. Norway’s largest contribution to this in the energy field must be a reduction in oil and gas production and a halt in exploration activity following new oil and gas fields, increased investment in value creation through renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and energy saving.’» I allow myself to ask questions about realism in this proposed new direction of energy policy. In 2001, the petroleum industry accounted for approx. 23 pst. of the gross national product in Norway, of which approx. 45 pst. of Norwegian exports. By reducing production and stopping new exploration activities, the revenue base for our well-being will be dramatically reduced. SV is usually the leading spokesman for one well-being after another, but obviously does not think that the money should be earned first. So my question is, how should the welfare be ensured with the loss of large revenues, which is the consequence of SV's policy? Can SV and the representative of Langeland provide a realistic answer to this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e189	The concept of realism has very different content for Right and SV, I'm going to assume. Therefore, I will try to answer according to what SV sees as realistic and necessary for Norway to do. In my post I said that it is important that a housekeeper with the resources that are actually on a Norwegian base, and that the Right today will vote against that we should try to get more out of it. There is one measure and one way to think about which I also believed Right was involved, but which they are not currently involved – a concrete measure that ensures the income that was requested, estimated at about approx. $400 billion. There's a way to think about which right should do more than that. As a whole, SV's political history has aimed to ensure that there is a smoother and lower rate of oil extraction than one has today. It would have meant that instead of having the jojo economy that the Right and Market Liberals stand for, one could have a stable employment on Kværner Egersund, where the representative comes from, while one now has a job out of the market. One should have had control with this, and that is SV's policy. The problem is simply that the Right's solution is more market. When the EEA Agreement ensures that privatised Statoil sends assignments abroad, there will not be any jobs in Norwegian shipyards with Right-wing policies. Therefore, SV has a completely different direction, which is clearly not fully understood by Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e200	I have listened with interest to the representative Langeland and in particular noticed that he is now beginning to worry about the electricity price. There's new paces from that edge. For many years SV has called for a reduction in the consumption of electricity. They have also been willing to increase fees just to achieve this. The representative of Langeland has also been an avid champion of the electrification of Norwegian pedestal, despite the lack of power in the market. Will the representative Langeland tell me and the Norwegian people what the electricity price would have been with the SV's fees and with the lack of power we would have had with electrification of Norwegian base? Would it be $3, $5, or maybe $7 per. kilowatt hour?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e209	I thank you for a good question, because that's exactly what I put a lot of emphasis on in my article. The criticism of the Progress Party, which claims to be the largest market liberalist in this house, is completely groundless. It's the Progress Party's policy that causes the power price to wave up and down, as it is now. The party wants more market, they get it, but when the price goes up, they wash their hands, and then they call on the state to solve the problem. It's all right – now I have to take care of myself here, President! – it is not a matter of intervention, because it is the policy that the Progress Party wants, as it is now. And then to the question: SV's option is to go in with measures that can reduce power consumption. The point of progress is to build gas power plants and give the baffle to earth's climate problem. Today and yesterday, SV has concrete proposals to reduce power consumption. If we go in with heat pumps, for example, if we support measures to get water-borne heat, if we support the purchase of pellet stoves, we will help people not to become as power-dependent as they are today, thus reducing their consumption. In this way, the price will stabilize, and one will have less market power and thus lower prices. SV would like to propose measures to increase the electricity price for periods – as we do today – in order to obtain the measures needed to allow the Norwegian people to participate and reduce power consumption and thus contribute to the improvement of the environment. The Progress Party's policy is more market. The progress party should actually apologize to the Norwegian people that the power price is so high; it's the ones who have contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e220	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e223	I want to start with the case that I think most people are busy today, and it's of course the sky-high power bills that many are going to get right over Christmas. We also mention this in the vote, and although we get a statement about this from the Minister on Tuesday, I am still going to spend some time commenting on the power situation. The Labour Party has warned against this situation for a long time, but I believe that we have spoken too much for deaf ears. The main reason why we're now in the situation we're in is because there's too little power on the market. We see that the growth in consumption is increasing quite a lot, while the availability of power is very small. I'm not going to spend a lot of time ripping up in the gas-powered sacs, but I would like to remind you that there are some parties in this room that have fought against it for a long time. Instead, the answer was to be a gas power plant with CO2 handling. It is then quite noticeable that the government parties, in cooperation with the Progress Party, are now helping to postpone the realisation of CO2-free gas power plants because research into this is being cut so significantly. Then I have to say that now there is just a little jock left of what was going to be the Bondevik II government flagship in energy policy. That only 20 million will be granted. kr for this purpose for next year, of course, means that this is pushed out in time. I want to show that for the current year, 65 million have been allocated. kr. I refer you to the financial situation where the Workers' Party proposed to spend 50 million. kr for this purpose, but we must note that the bulk of the population has reduced the frame. It is not possible to maintain this research with as low a framework as is now available. The debate on electricity prices is also about making more use of renewable energy sources, as Hallgeir Langeland pointed out. It's forward-looking both if we think about the environment, and if we think about the economy. The working party has - in this setting as well - several suggestions to this effect. I would like, among other things: refer to the proposal we are working with SV on a plan for increased use of biofuels. Even now, the parties to the government are not involved in this proposal. We also had some of the same proposals when we dealt with the climate communication in ours. We also suggested in our alternative budget spending more money on Enova. If it had been adopted, Enova would have gotten 500 million. kr next year, as Stortinget has added. I feel that there is a great deal of interest among many in saving electricity and using more environmentally friendly energy sources. This interest we have to make sure to maintain. Therefore, it is important that we are also willing to provide grants to people who want to install e.g.. heat pump in their homes. We believe that this is a necessary proposal and it is a forward-looking proposal. The UN Conference on Sustainable Development gave all of us a reminder that we have a long way to go until we have a sustainable society. Until then, environmental and poverty problems are too great. But we have to have hope. We must have the hope that the world community can solve these enormous challenges together, because the environment can only be saved if we work together, at all levels and across sectors. We must actively work for a better environment globally, regionally, nationally and locally. And I can see that there's a broad consensus on this. I will, on behalf of the Workers' Party, support the commitment that the Minister for the Environment has had internationally in this respect. But environmental work is also about putting thoughts and words into life, both at home and outside. You just have to go from talking to practice. Then I have to say, unfortunately, that the government's practice is now going too much in the wrong direction. This is how one chooses to cooperate with the Progress Party in environmental policy. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party led to several unfortunate cuts in important environmental research and in other areas of environmental policy. We have offered the Government something from the Workers' Party to correct this by offering more money for the environment. But the government wouldn't have. As I said earlier in my article, local environmental exposure is a prerequisite for sustainable development. The government's policy has so far been to weaken this commitment. In this year’s budget, the Government has proposed – and is supported by the Progress Party – a cut of about 20 p.m. for local environmental protection. We dealt with the open-air messages here in Stortinget earlier this year. It made visible large and traditional dividing lines in Norwegian policy. The basic ownership interests were set up against the rights of all persons, and, in our opinion, basic ownership interests were won over in essential respects. For example, there's only been more cabin construction in the beach zone, and the availability for most people has become worse. In the Workers' Party, we are very concerned about this development. The more important it is to ensure free public space. Therefore, we believe that the allocation for this purpose needs to be considerably increased. Taking care of our wild breeds is one of many important tasks for the management of biodiversity. This gives us a good opportunity to deal with the late winter season when we deal with the issue of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. That the government chooses to prejudge this matter by distributing the 40 new salmon concessions before this matter has been dealt with, and across what the government has previously said, a mere failure can occur. But I will nevertheless underline as much as I can, the importance of now starting the roof that needs to be over several years to combat the salmon parasite gyro. That is also why we propose more money from our side for this purpose. The implementation of the protection plan for coniferous forests and the national park plan is also very important. These are plans which the Workers' Party has made a significant contribution to presenting and adopting. It is important to take care of our pristine nature. It's important for us who live now, but it's also very important for those who come after us. I believe it is a negative or, at best, a very unclear signal when, in negotiations with the Progress Party, the Government has agreed to carry out a greater degree of business in protected areas. This cannot be in line with the signals previously given by the Minister for the Environment. And as I read it, that means, among other things. that this is due to more opening for e.g. scooter driving, etc. in protective areas, as requested by the Progress Party. This must mean that the Progress Party has won and the Minister for the Environment has lost. It is the action of counting, not the fine words. Finally, I would like to address something that many naturally are concerned about, and it is unemployment that is rising too much. From all parts of the country there are notifications of closures, deflagrations, cancellations and lay-offs. The situation is very serious. Even in the oil sector, there is now a difficult situation in many places, as exploration activity is low and drilling rigs are in stock. At many yards there are few assignments, and the prospects ahead are not bright. Hallgeir H. Langeland mentioned the situation of Aker Kværner as one example, where 140 have now been terminated because the Spanish yard won the competition. The situation there – and at other sites – needs to be examined. The price difference is – I would say – suspiciously large, and there is every reason to check further. We also believe that there is every reason to take the situation seriously in the Norwegian workshop industry, and we are therefore pleased that there is an overall committee supporting the proposal where we ask the Government to go through the competitive situation of this industry and report back to the Stortinget in the revised national budget. Finally, I would like to address the proposals where the Labour Party stands alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e255	The representative Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e261	It's always interesting to hear what pathos you can talk about in addition to the budgets. When you go through the research budgets, go through the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, it is not easy to see where the difference between the Workers' Party and the government parties lies. I'm very happy about that. But politically correct or political tactical trickery is hardly when I say that I have always considered the Workers' Party as a responsible party. It is therefore with great wonder that I am looking at some of the proposals that the party is making at the moment. In this case, I would like to point out the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted together with the SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party on the Cartwork. We can quickly agree that the allocation, which in itself is the same as the Workers' Party has proposed, is not as large as many would have liked. And asking for a message about maps and spatial data, and how the department thinks about the future of the mapping, is okay. However, to demand that the Cartwork should not be allowed to adapt to the costs and organisationally until the notification has arrived, and perhaps processed, damages the Cartwork. Does not the representative Brustad see that this either leads to the money being spent, so that the cart register is empty early in the fall, or that employees are there, but do not have money for the projects they are there to work with?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e268	That the representative of Onarheim is not entirely able to see the difference in e.g. The appropriations for research in gas power plants with CO2 handling, to use this example, I find it strange. We have received very clear feedback from the research communities, including: from SINTEF, which clearly says that cut will, of course, create problems for what they are doing, such as: in the case of the specific case. I could have mentioned other examples. And when, in addition, the main response from this government to provide more power has been a gas power plant with CO2 management and that is where it is cut in cooperation with the Progress Party, it must be a problem for the Government. This comes at the top of the fact that government parties also agree with concrete proposals to phase in renewable energy, such as: bioenergy, much faster than the government's plan. They also vote for more money for Enova, who could have got more if they had agreed with us. So to the question of the Cartwork: There is my clear opinion that if the Government had done its job in relation to the mission they received from a clear majority in the Stortinge in the previous round, this could have been avoided. This situation arises because the Environment Minister and the Government have not done their job. This is actually the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment and not the majority of the population. That's what's wrong. Here, significant cuts have been proposed that will affect the Cartwork and what to do, and for many employees, probably. But then there is only one answer to this, and that is the following: the Minister for the Environment must now go home to the Ministry of the Environment, do his job and make a quick message. It is quite possible to do – we have not asked for a 200-page thesis. It has to be dealt with quickly in Stortinget, and then we'll see how the process is going on, even in relation to the processes that are going on. So in other words, if the government had done its job, this situation could have been avoided, and I would at least recommend it to do it this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e277	The representative Brustad started his post by showing a great deal of care to those who have had a huge increase in the electricity bill. I have also registered that she has expressed the same expression in various media. I'm somewhat surprised at this. I assume, of course, that the representative Brustad understands that in a market where demand increases while offering does not increase accordingly, this will lead to an increase in the electricity price. I would therefore like to ask whether she and the Workers' Party are not taking their share of the responsibility for the hopeless situation we have come up with, and at the same time will recall the Labour Party's vote in the Upper Ott case and in connection with the Salt Mountain/Svartisen development, in addition to the Jagland Government's throng in the gas power case of treating CO2 emissions under the pollution law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e284	I think it's a little strange that these questions come from the Progress Party, which until those degrees are concerned that the market is going to govern, so to speak, all areas. That's what we're seeing in and out of it right now. We're not concerned about turning the clock back, but we're busy saying what we've been saying for a long time, and we've warned against for a long time: if we can't get more power into this market, there'll of course be a very gap between what we're using and the power that's available. That's the situation we're now in. And I want to distance myself from the statement that the Workers' Party was brooding in connection with gas sacs. There could not be so much fumigation when even the previous Bondevik administration chose to go off just on the matter of gas power. I think we've done our job trying to get more power into the market. We're going to continue that fight, and of course we don't mind using the technology that's most environmentally friendly at any time. That is why it is so strange that the Progress Party, together with the government parties, is cutting research into gas power plants, which could have given gas power plants CO2 management. It's not going to be any more power. In addition, the Progress Party is voting against our proposals for more green energy into the market – bioenergy, subsidies for heat pumps, etc. – which could have given more power. I am also very excited about what the Progress Party is going to do when, just over Christmas, we are going to decide on the Workers' Party's proposal for a smarter power use, where consumers can participate in and influence their own electricity bill. Obviously, we all have a responsibility to do what we can to have just a smarter consumption. Otherwise, the Workers' Party believes that there is still a very high potential in the upgrading of old power plants. We see that it's a way to go there relative to processes that may take a long time, but I think it's important to go through that. I believe that we have no reason to have a bad conscience here. I think there are other people in this room than the Workers' Party who should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e297	SV and the Workgroup are in a set of things. It seems SV is positive, but there are a couple of issues where we don't speak the same language. One goes on power prices and access to power. The only working party proposal supported by SV is that one should focus more on biofuels and waterborne heat. It is in SV's opinion the right way to go. But when we hear the Labour Party's answer to e.g. The step-by-step batch is the main gas power plant to solve this. So one needs more power in the market, that's what's the main concern, and then gas power plants come first. We in SV are often charged with saying, "Yes, both of them," but here the Labour Party does it in a way that I think is complicated. So my question to the Workers' Party is, why is one of these two directions most important, if one thinks first of all about the environment? What is most important for the Workers' Party? The last question arises on a proposal submitted by SV when it is necessary to enter into the EEA Agreement its effects on the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. Olav Aksensen, the leader of the Business Committee, says that the EEA Agreement is a ‘household contract’ – not a ‘herce’ contract, which I regrettably said. When one looks at the fact that one in the EU seems to be offering prices far below those of the Norwegians, is it understood that the Labour Party is calculating this with the EEA Agreement in the proposal that has multiples? Is there a reason for an unsupported SV's suggestion?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e306	Parliamentary, at least this was a better name!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e309	Let me start with the power prices. The representative Langeland wondered what was most important for the Workers' Party. The most important thing for the Workers' Party is to bring down the power bill for people. To do that, we have to do like Ole Brumm and say, "Yes, thank you both". I don't think it's gonna last, for example. to bet on getting renewable energy, but there we are completely in agreement, the Workers' Party and SV, and we have to put a lot of effort on that. It is just to note, unfortunately – I cannot use the word regret here – that we are not getting any answers to that in this Chamber. It could have been a very important contribution. We're also willing to spend a lot more money on that kind of thing than what's being adopted here tonight. It's not about either – or, in the extreme situation we're in now, I think we have to say, "Yes, thanks, both." Otherwise, it is interesting to note that SV – which is now talking little about SV actually being at higher power prices – is just talking about renewable energy, which is good, or talking about differentiating the electricity prices. That's interesting things both, but the truth is that SV wanted higher power prices. I guess it's also important to point out when they now appear to be very worried that power prices are increasing as much as they actually do. So to the second question, why are we not on SV's proposals in relation to the situation in the yard industry? The Labour Party has pointed out many times that we are very concerned about that situation. I have personally been to Kværner Egersund for a short time, and there is a lot of reason to check the price difference between the Spanish yard and the Norwegian yard. I really hope that the Minister for Oil and Energy will take an initiative on this. We believe that what is now proposed for Decision I, which the whole committee is behind, is adequate to check the competitive situation of the yard industry. I fully share the concern that Langeland also has in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e318	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e321	I am pleased that there was a budgetary settlement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party also in the Committee. In particular, I am pleased that the budgetary increases agreed on are good: strengthening the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris, cleaning up PCB pollution and subsidies to action Watercourses to reduce nutrient emissions in watercourses. Furthermore, the agreement resulted in an increased grant of 10 million. kr for the balancing of transfer tariffs. It is a fact that there are quite different prices of electricity around the country, and the grant is on a regular basis – let me add: at least in normal periods. The 2003 budget was intended primarily to facilitate business, in particular the outsourced. This was primarily about adopting a tight budget to reduce the pressure in the Norwegian economy. The aim was, of course, a reduction in interest rates and a reduction in the price of crowns, which is absolutely necessary for our companies to compete with their products on the world market. I am pleased that the budget presented satisfies this, and without taking all the credit for the interest cut yesterday, I feel sure that the tightness of the budget contributed greatly. But in order to have a tight budget, the use of money over the state budget must be a priority. It is a difficult task in politics. Actually, we want to prioritize everything. The government parties have therefore had to endure criticisms from a number of environments that have promoted good proposals for increased appropriations in their area. However, with regard to the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment, we believe that we have a good priority, including: research efforts in areas such as CO2 management and renewable energy, investment in infrastructure for the domestic use of natural gas, the protection of valuable natural areas and the creation of a cultural memory fund to support part of our valuable historical construction works. So many in this room will claim – and have already done so – that there is still too little investment in these areas. I'm not afraid to say that I would have liked to see that we could bet even stronger. But what would that lead to? The semi-declaration's objective that public consumption should not be higher than the growth of the economy is now the best lever for the nation's economic value creation. That is why I am very pleased with the measures that we have, after all, been given room for. The energy balance in Norway has deteriorated in recent years. There is a broad consensus that the time for the large hydropower expansions is over. However, in this area there are many potentials for expansion, conversion and upgrading that will only have a limited impact on the environment, but which can give rise to significant quantities of power. It is also necessary to look at the transmission capacity both from our neighbouring and domestic countries. The lack of power recorded in these days, and the tight cross-sections of the transmission system clearly show that we have major challenges in the future. Although we are making considerable efforts in the budget to develop new renewable energy sources, and with many exciting projects, fossil energy sources, in addition to hydropower, are undoubtedly needed to meet energy needs for many years to come. With Norway's amazing energy wealth, both of the clean, renewable, and of the fossils, we have a commitment not only to borrow back and invest in the import of more polluting energy during deficit periods. Therefore, it is important to explore the more environmentally friendly use of natural gas and take the necessary decisions to make use of it. It is important that the owners of the three design gas power plants that have a concession continuously assess the profitability of expanding with the best available technology we have today. For a long time we cannot take the chance that the weather gods will give us enough rainfall to keep the magazines full beyond the harvest! It can be claimed that the high prices we now see will lead to a prolonged focus on energy saving, both in industry and in households. An additional measure is important regardless of the supply period. We can probably all save a lot more on the power. However, the high prices have so many other negative consequences, not least of a social nature, that it is necessary that we now think new about ensuring our long-term energy balance. It is gratifying that the budgets are now being adopted during the day. With a reasonable and rational use of the means at our disposal, we should be able to look forward to good results in the various areas. A proper priority, both in terms of environmental measures, protection, energy research, ensuring the long-term energy balance, and a balanced extraction of our rich oil and gas reserves, shall be high on our political agenda. It is a strength for our country that the consensus on these issues is greater than it may seem when we see the budgetary comments and hear the sound level of the debates. But it draws more attention to the Government and government parties, and that's the way it should be. I refer you to the proposals. The right and Christian People's Party will be in favour of IV, the proposal for increased exploitation. The reason why we didn't do it in the first place was because the government is already working on it. But we now support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e340	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e343	We are in the midst of a worrying development today. The representative of Onarheim said that the main budget for the harvest was to facilitate business. Then he justified that interest goes down with the government's good work. Interest is going down due to an increase in the electricity price. 10 billion dollars has been announced in the media that the government will make use of the increased current price that is now. The economy is falling due to the high electricity price. They leave the employees instead of driving, because they make more money selling the power. The working party is concerned about this development. We are also concerned that the government parties do not participate in pointing out that the dividend policy pursued in relation to Statnet is worrying when it comes to expanding the network. We want a review and clarification of how Statnet will in the future do its development plans in relation to its economy. One thing is to stand and talk nice from the Storting's pulpit or elsewhere, what we need is action. So here the government cuts in what they think should be the energy solution of the future, gas power plants with CO2 handling. What will the Right do to solve the energy crisis we're in now? They were previously concerned that gas power plants had to be built. Has the Right gone from that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e351	The representative, Klungland, says that business relief may not have been so important. It's not so very interesting to have a lot of things going on in this country if we don't have anyone producing anything. Here I believe the representative of Klungland and I quite agree. Rate down - current price up. Yes, it's true that they happened to come – let's say – countercurrent. I don't think there's any reason to think that when we get more normal rainfall again, the interest rate should immediately be set up again. We're now in a trend where I think it's right that interest rates went down, and I think it has a more long-term effect than the representative of Klungland points to. But it's true that we're both concerned about the evolution that's right now, because it's not good for households or business to have such high power prices. Therefore, it is important that we now look at how to build up, so that we get a greater freedom of action in terms of the available power. When you hear how violent it is from the Workers' Party on these things, it is quite interesting to note that what was proposed by the last Stoltenberg government was the lower than what you want to have at your disposal in 2003 for energy research. I think that's why we're going to talk a little bit lower about these huge bets that one party is doing compared to the other. That's, with what you have to pay out in the revised in 2003, 45 million. DKK at the disposal of research in these areas in 2003. It's not enough, I wish it was more, but it gives a useful opportunity to move on to this important point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e362	From the beginning of the budget, we have received many input from politicians and various input from voluntary environmental protection organisations. Last year we made a proposal that we should look at the legislation for the granting of support to these voluntary organisations. I also had an exchange of lines with the Council of State during the budgetary procedure last year, where the Council of State said he was considering this. But almost as usual, nothing has happened in that way. It is gratifying that several other parties are looking at this issue over and over again, and I am also pleased that the SV and the Central Party have made a proposal asking for an assessment of the need for new legislation. I think the proposal is a little weak, but at least it is a step in the right direction, because I think there is a need for the legislation to be re-examined so that it can be perceived by various environmental protection organisations as more fair than today. My question to the representative of Onarheim is: What will the Right do to bring about a regulatory framework that is perceived more fairly by voluntary environmental protection organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e371	Quite briefly to this question: I think it is right that the representative of Korsberg claims that it may seem unreasonable that some organisations with few members get quite a lot, while others are fed off with a smaller amount even though they are quite large. I think this is something you should look at, and I think the department is aware of this. It's a little cross-thinking that there's a lot of money going on from the environmental budget of these organizations, but we're facing massive criticism of everything that's done in the hearings. That's the way democracy does it. I think we should look at how these funds are distributed, and be aware of the weaknesses. I am very pleased that we have active environmental protection organisations, but, as I have mentioned earlier, it would not have been wrong if they coordinated their resources any better than what is being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e378	The Minister for the Environment has been, in a way, profiled when it comes to environmental issues, at least for a period of time when the government has its seat. What amazes me lately is what has happened in relation to the wild and how one in one way should preserve the wild – and Norway has a special international responsibility. A big message has been submitted, which Stortingen has for treatment. But then the government handed out 40 salmon concessions over the table after conversations with the Progress Party. A well in the budget to award 50 concessions, which nobody really wants because the market is saturated. As a result of the environmental movement, this could be a disaster for the wild species when one gets so many farms all around where a government would actually protect national salmon fjords and national salmon streams. So my question to the representative Onarheim is: Is it in line with the government's policy and is it in line with good environmental policy to make these abuses towards the wild? The second question is that the Labour Party, SV and the Centre have a common proposal that one should go in and look at the target one has for Enova in terms of energy efficiency improvement, and come up with proper additional measures and the commitment to alternative renewable energy. We want an independent analysis of the capital needs of this company in relation to the targets the size has seen. Is it not a good store to work that way, because Right doesn't support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e389	It is true, as the representative Langeland says, that it is important to protect the wild species. We have a special responsibility for that. On the other hand, it is also important to see what really threatens the wild. There we are in a process. We don't know exactly how it ends, because we haven't gotten that far in treatment. But there have been quite a number of interesting points of view on what is really the problem. I am very willing, along with the Minister for the Environment, to go in and see what we can do that really brings results. With regard to the salmon concessions given, I think, first of all, that the representative Langeland shows that it is not easy to think in the long term about the development of industry. It is clear that if there are now some poor prices for salmon, I do not think that means that the farming industry in Norway is dead and gone. There will still be great interest in it. If you were to distribute these concessions or not, I think it was a balance and had to be a balance in relation to what these 40 applicants had originally been promised, and what problems it had to be with the salmon fjords when you saw that there was no correlation between the concessions and what was proposed for protection. A majority of the Committee seemed to support such a idea, and then the Minister for Fisheries chose to leave without the fact that this Committee was actually the appropriate address to assess it. As far as Enova is concerned, I agree with the representatives of Langeland that it is always reasonable to try to see what objectives we are going to set for an enterprise and how we are going to organise and finance it. Now I have great faith in Enova. I think they've taken this pretty well, and I think the course they're at now is good. But they're quite new, so it takes some time to see which direction they're going in, what organization they have and what capacity they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e398	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e401	Usually the few in society are interested in energy policy, but this has now changed dramatically. This is, of course, due to the situation we have now experienced in the power market, with a lack of electricity and an explosive development in electricity prices. I, the undersigned and others of the Advance Party, have for a number of years warned that this situation would arise. With a steady increase in electricity consumption while not increasing power generation, the result is self-evident: sky-high electricity prices that the Norwegian population now has to face. All of this is the result of a totally misguided energy policy. It helps very little that the government and the majority of the population over many years have had the aim of reducing electricity consumption, when the result has been the exact opposite. Unfortunately, this says a little bit about the reality of the majority of people in this house. It could have been tempting today to say, what did I say? But of course I won't. Let's look at the situation in the power market in the last ten years. After the Energy Act came ten to eleven years ago, many plans for power development were put in a drawer. This was due to the belief that a free power market – where customers could freely enter into force – would ensure that prices were kept down, and this could weaken the profitability of some of the planned power development projects. However, it turned out that most of the power customers stayed with their fixed supplier and were loyal to their local power company. In other words, they did not exploit the potential of the power market. After a few years of stable electricity prices, the power companies found out that they would still realize some of their plans. The planes were taken out of the drawers and brushed off dust. And then what happens? Well, now there are politicians in government and big business who say no. Protective interests and politicians go hand in hand and must protect every small stream. Some expansion projects were halved in relation to the size requested, and these were among the lucky ones, while others were not allowed to build anything at all. I am thinking in particular about the Salt Mountain/Blackstone construction we had a couple of years ago. And when some sensible politicians in this house six to seven years ago found out that gas could also be used for power generation, yes, then the Iland government also managed to train this by treating CO2 emissions under the pollution law, even though this is obviously not pollution. It was not until spring 2000 that we had a decision that would give Norwegian gas plants the same framework conditions as others in the EEA area. But then there was so much political uncertainty about this that the actors put their plans at risk. The sitting government has also contributed greatly to this uncertainty with the most incredible curvatures to train the development of gas power plants. Norway today appears to be an energy storm power with an energy production of nearly 3000 TWh in the form of oil, gas and power. Most of this is being exported. We're just using 6-7 pst. It's self. I have asked myself many times how it is possible that an energy storm power such as Norway cannot be self-sufficient in electricity. I have a hard time finding a reasonable answer to this. There are 6-7 TWh normal deficits in the government sector, and we therefore need to import power from, among others. nuclear power stations and highly polluting coal-fired power stations. It should have been impossible to stand up in such a way for a nation that almost floods with energy. It is not energy we lack in Norway. No, unfortunately, we have a total lack of political power when it comes to using something more of the huge energy resources we have. The Progress Party wants us to continue to expand somewhat more hydropower where this does not have a serious impact on nature. We will facilitate the upgrading and expansion of existing hydropower plants. In addition, we will open up micro- and mini-power plants that also together have a high power potential, and of course also use more of our huge gas resources both for power generation and as a source of energy elsewhere in society. The Party of Advances takes a distance from the Government and the precious airlocks of the majority of the population to subsidise windmills and the like, measures that can neither be economical nor give rise to any significant force. As in the past, the Progress Party will see that the Norwegian people and business will have ample access to energy at reasonable prices. It was just to be lacking that we, who live in a cold country in the north, would not be able to spend any more of our enormous resources just to compensate for this. So to the budget: As is well known, the Progress Party subsidized the negotiated budgetary agreement with the government parties after our alternative government budget fell. This led to increased allocations for the protection of ships and the distribution of natural gas. In the Committee, we have also entered into an agreement with the government parties which has increased the budget lines for PCB eradication and control of gyro, and last but not least, we have doubled the grant for balancing net tariffs, which will turn out to be positive for those with the highest network rental. This is, of course, far from what we originally had in our alternative budget, but nevertheless small steps in the right direction. However, I am pleased that the majority is behind the return of the part of the budget proposal that deals with net tariffing, so that we can get a proper treatment of this to spring. I hope the government takes this seriously. I am also pleased that the majority is now supporting an investigation into different models of public co-financing for research in the petroleum sector, including a petroleum-oriented research fund, after our primary proposal for a fund of DKK 10 billion unfortunately fell in the treatment of the State budget. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 13-17 on behalf of the Party for Progress, and Proposal No. 9 on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e444	Øvind Waksdal has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e449	The party of progress has proved to be a powerful party, at least in its own organisation. But when you listen to the representative, Mr. Waksdal, a quick one is that the expression ‘this is not hanging on to something’ has a lot to do with it. The Progress Party wants free competition in the energy market. They state in their observations that they ‘respect energy as any other commercial product to be freely marketable and may be freely used by those operators who buy energy on the market at all times, without any public interference’. It is a policy that they implement consistently. That means that the Progress Party is actually behind the current price that we have today. This means that the market has to decide. This means that there will not be any more power until the price is high enough and the Norwegian people have had enough fuss, as the representative Vaksdal also said instead. How can the Progress Party stand on the pulpit and blame other political parties when they have such a implemented market liberal policy in the energy sector as they have? They won't be involved in any measures to reduce power prices, they'll let it float freely. Is the Progress Party comfortable with today's electricity prices? And what do they think they're going to do to solve the price situation that people and businesses are experiencing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e458	The representative of Klungland says that the Progress Party is a powerful party. He's right about that. We see, as he says, on energy as a commodity, and we need to have the least possible interference from the public to influence the consumption. It is also quite right, as the representative of Klungland says, that we want the market to decide. What becomes problematic is when the representative Klungland and other politicians in this room are preventing the market from functioning and preventing the players who want to expand. This is when the market is directly involved and prevents the functioning of the market. That's why we have the prices we have today, because we haven't built up a single kilowatt in Norway in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e464	As cheap as the representative Waksdal now tried to get away, it can't. This is one of the policies that must be pursued. SV is for there to be quite high power prices, so that one can provide the options we want, renewable energy and power saving. We're being honest and we're winning. But saying that a person doesn't really recognize market liberalism, as one might say indirectly, it's going to be directly cowardly. If you want to build the gas power plants that we have planned and that have concession, you have to put money into it, so you have to go in and control money so that they are built. One could have done that, because the Progress Party has been in the process of making the premises for the State budget. Where are the money for all this that we've been talking about? No, be honest and say that a high power price is the Policy of the Progress Party, because they want the market to prevail. It's an honest thing. Trying to get away from the fact that nothing is happening, that nothing is being built up, and not proposing to build something, is cowardice. Here one has to stand straight and say: I think the market is going to clean up this. If this doesn't happen, we have to accept an increase in power prices. There is no room for government to grow when you are contributing to budget premises. I'd like to challenge the Progress Party to say if they're going to set aside money to build new hydroelectric power projects or gas power. Is that what we're supposed to wait for from the Progress Party's side, so that the current gets cheaper? That must be what must happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e471	Hallgeir Langeland is now as previously allergic to everything that has to do with market and market forces, and he obviously has not understood how this works. I'll try again. It is true that in a market there should be both supply and demand. It is precisely in a market where there is a imbalance between supply and demand that this affects price. When the representative Langeland and his peers refuse to increase the production of electricity in the market, the price rises. It's as simple as that. That's not what Langeland asked about at the end, that there's big business and government going to grant money to build up power. Our task is to facilitate that the actors who want to expand will be allowed to do so. But we're not going to spend public dollars on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e478	I would like to remind the representative, Mr Vaksdal, of the following: firstly, Norway is pursuing a radical and ambitious climate policy. Secondly, Norway is one of the first countries in the world to develop a holistic policy for all its maritime and coastal areas. The government has presented a national plan for following up its UN Convention on Biological Diversity, and the Government is actively continuing to protest against emissions from the Sellafield plant. In fact, the Christian People's Party has been moving the centre of gravity of Norwegian environmental policy by entering into government cooperation with Right. Man-made climate challenges are already a fact. The climate is getting warmer, wetter and wilder, as it is called, and we experience periods of dry weather. 1998 was so far the warmest year in the world, and it brings me sight when the Progress Party rejects that this can be man-made. An overwhelmingly large number of people in the UN's climate panel are overly perplexed about it. A global society uses large resources to counteract these changes through agreements to bring down climate change emissions. It is strange then that the Progress Party can be so consistent in rejecting the fact that climate change is man-made. For this reason, the question to the representative, Mr Vaksdal, is: with the changes that have now been identified, including: In the weather, in the climate, in the ecosystem, and when it comes to pollution, could the representative, Mr. Vaksdal, be involved in a discussion, so that we can have a change? It applies in the fields of protection, environmental protection and pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e487	The representative of Liones mentioned some of the measures in which Norway was involved. Some were very reasonable, and some were not so reasonable, seen with our eyes. What we all agree on, of course, is that we have climate change. But what we believe is not sufficiently proven is the causes of the climate change we have. That's why we don't want to turn the world upside down because of something that's as poorly scientifically founded as this. We lost the previous vote on ratification. We have then concentrated on minimising the adverse effects on the Norwegian people and the Norwegian business community as a result. We are not involved in symbolic policies such as the Government and the Swedish government just before the holiday, but we are concerned about, once we have ratified the Kyoto mechanisms, that we should use them to the full, so that the business community itself should choose whether to make clean-up measures either on its businesses or elsewhere, or to buy allowances abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e494	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e497	For a long time, sustainable development has been a key concern of environmental policy. The Environment Conference in Johannesburg earlier this year confirmed that environmental and development challenges are global and that the rich countries have a special responsibility to contribute to the best possible environment globally. To see that we take this responsibility, we need to give the right national priority. We are co-responsible for the man-made climate change. We have to commit to an environmentally sound development of society that meets the needs of today's human beings and generations to come. We are ourselves part of nature and creation, and we must manage the basis of life with the responsibility we are charged with. A defence administration is based on three principles: Nature's tolerance may not be exceeded. The pre-goods principle must be taken into account. Forureins need to pay to correct environmental damage. The cooperation organisation prioritises the environment high. In a tight financial arrangement for the budget, including: We have found room for important environmental efforts to reduce interest rates and the krone price. This has already been achieved: the first interest rate reduction has arrived, and the environmental profile is constantly getting clearer. We're increasing the promise of clearing in forureina sediment with PCB content in ports and fjords with a total of 15 million. NOK and at the same time an order authorisation of 20 million is granted. to ensure adequate progress in the removal of pollutants and sediments. In the 15 million. kr, which is equal to 5 million. kr to be used for the cleaning of shipwreck and PCBs from sediment on the bottom of the sea. We are pleased that we are together with the Progress Party when it comes to this important bet. I also refer to the marine environment report submitted by the Government, and the committee's work to be launched in the new year. This message will provide important guidance on how to get a good marine environment, which is a means to house pollution-free food from the sea. Taking care of old cultural memories and places is important, both to ourselves and for the sake of those who come after us. The cultural memory fund is being allocated revenue from the 6.5 million fund. kr. This comes in addition to a continuation of approximately 15 million. kr in the budget for the current year. In the 2003 budget, Norsk Vasskraft- und Industristadmusem (Norwegian Vasskraft- und Industristadmusem) in Tyssedal has been raised. Through an addition made as a split layer between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment, the restoration work at this museum is fully funded. I'm happy for this promise. In addition, I would like to underline the valuable work done locally, so that there can be an important link between future generations and part of the basis for the well-being of this country, the exploitation of our water resources for energy production. Recognisable and resilient energy supply is still the basis of the welfare society we live in. Recently, we have shown how vulnerable we are when we base our energy production mainly on hydropower. I am therefore pleased that we have found room in a tight budget to continue the strong commitment to the development of alternative energy sources. The commitment to the Energy Fund was 479 million in 2003. kr, nearly half a billion, including 200 million. kr resulting from the mark-up on the network tariff for that purpose. The increase in the electricity price lately is a tough challenge for all of us. However, it has to be noted that when the electricity price increases, people become more concerned when it comes to their electricity consumption. This shows that there is the potential for power saving and conversion to other environmentally sound energy. The Government Party is concerned about the environmentally sound use of natural gas. Through the environmentally sound use of natural gas, Norway will use its potential to become a transitory country within this field. I believe that the priorities adopted today provide a good basis for us in the Committee on Energy and the Environment to have room to play in order to realise our target-conscious commitment to sustainable development, where administrator responsibility shows that both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e531	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e534	After this budget harvest, it is clearer than ever that the Bondevik II Government has its parliamentary basis in the Progress Party. For this reason, the Progress Party has been given an impact on large cuts, including: in research at CO2-free gas power plants and environmental research. But in addition to moving money, government parties have also gone into partnership with the Progress Party on a number of verbal proposals. I have to say that I was more shocked when I heard that the Progress Party had had had an impact on the increased tourist use of protected areas established under the Nature Conservation Act. I fear that the Government is about to sacrifice important principles of classical nature protection because one had to agree with the Advance Party. But that's not just why I'm worried. I am also concerned because I fear that the government parties are initially not so concerned about calling about important principles that have been agreed for a long time. For example, we see in the budget position under Chapter 1427 of the Directorate for Nature Management. The overall objective of the Directorate for Nature Management is to preserve biodiversity and to protect and strengthen the rights of all people. It's in the budget proposal that Mr. Børge Burnde made, and it's got a unanimous committee going on and on. But when the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have come into government, this overall objective has been adjusted – to say the least – and not said that the Directorate of Nature Management has as its general objective the protection and strengthening of all human rights, just to ensure it. Some might say that this is vocabulary. But I want to ask the representative Lioness about this. Why will the Right and Christian People's Party no longer write that the Directorate for Nature Management should protect and strengthen the rights of all people? What does the representative of Liones think in this case is the difference between the Council of State Børge Brende and the Workers' Party and SV write, that you should protect and strengthen the rights of all people, and the Right and Christian People's Party writes, that you should just secure it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e541	The fact that there is a representative from the Labour Party who is just addressing the issue of CO2 research in general and means to research, among other things. CO2-free gas power plants, I think it might be important to mention that if you look at what has been presented from the Workers' Party and what is now coming from the Government and the bulk of the population, the promises that are now being agreed are actually bigger. The Sem statement says 100 million. kr for this research. So far, with what came into the revised national budget and the pledge this year, it's 70 million. kr. So it's going to be 30 million. I'm sure that these money will also come into place. There are several chances. First of all, the processing of gas messages is now coming, and it is five times as far. It concerns technology development and pilot testing, it concerns the creation of innovation companies, it concerns investment aid, and it also applies to the disposal of CO2 deposit and reinjection infrastructure. This together has such a strong focus on the part that, as you can see, it means a significantly stronger bet than what the Workers' Party had put up to. Now, it is natural to invite cooperation in the treatment of the revised national budget and, not least, in the treatment of the 2004 budget, so that we can get an even greater boost in this important area. So a few words about the effort to preserve the biological diversity. There the Minister for the Environment has shown a fresh boost when it comes to protecting the area and following up the processing of the message. And it's in spite of everything, which the representative was also about, that one should secure the biological deficiency through the promises that are. But I think we could take chapter by chapter and say that of course we should have more money, but in the balance between different budget lines we have found a good environmental profile this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e550	My line is about the situation in the power market and high electricity prices, and it's not that unnatural in those times. When you follow the debate that's been going on in the media, and look back a little bit in time, I think the Christian People's Party seems pretty unclear about what kind of energy policy you want. In the setting for the energy message that was processed on 9 March 2000, the Christian People's Party writes in a note together with other parties the following: Does not bring correctness. The quote is from Innst. S. No 233 for 1997-98, on the follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol, which was dealt with in the European Council on 11.06.1998. ‘A second majority, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left indicate that a plan for phase-out of oil firing should be drawn up.’ And then it says, ‘In new buildings it should be considered to prohibit the installation of oil firing. In 15 years at least 80 pst should be used. by oil firing have been removed.’;» Does the Christian People's Party still stand for such a policy – especially in the light of the current and future situation in the power market? How much higher would the electricity prices be if oil firing were to be banned and phased out, as the Christian People's Party called for on 9 March 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e571	Government and government are investing in a more robust energy supply than is the case today. There is a targeted focus on energy saving and new and renewable energy sources. Enova has now been given a unique chance to deliver as much as 10 TWh per year in new electricity production and electricity savings by 2010. Furthermore, this government and government party are investing in the use of environmentally friendly natural gas. We have facilitated the upgrading and extension of hydropower plants within environmental frameworks, and there have been many concessions to expand and upgrade power plants, and it will be a significant challenge. Furthermore, this government and the government are willing to explore gas power stations with CO2 handling in order to obtain more energy. An action plan has now been created to signal the reduction of the oil discharge by 25 pst. Many have such oil-fired boilers in place and can use them in the exceptional case at present. However, it is equally important to note that through the planning and building laws, it has been designed to provide for new expansion areas and to facilitate the heating of the water well. We don't need to be so preoccupied with the difficult current situation that is now, with increasing power prices and pretty low magazine, that we forget to focus on environmentally sound energy, where water-borne heat, heat pumps, etc. enters as an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e579	It could be tempting to ask how the Christian People's Party really feels today. The agreement in the budget with the Progress Party has involved some, I would assume, quite painful cuts, and I am thinking especially of the cuts that have been made on the research side. You've cut energy research by 45 million. kr and in environmental research of 15 million. kr, and it was initially a budget that meant a real decline, because the wage and price growth was not fully compensated. I have for the most part realised that the strategy of the Progress Party is to close both the eyes and ears and go backwards into the future. But it is hardly a strategy supported by the Christian People's Party. Ironically, the Progress Party argues that there is too little knowledge base in climate policy. But they don't want any more research. In fact, I think it is a little late for the representative Lioness to ask now whether the Progress Party is involved in climate and environmental policy, after the budget compromise is on the table. No, the Progress Party is not part of the climate policy – but they are with both hands on the wheel when the money is to be distributed through the state budget. But if now the Christian People's Party wants to demonstrate and show that they have plans other than the Progress Party has, and wants to go right into the future, I challenge the Christian People's Party to make clear that their strategy now is to increase our share of renewable energy in the years to come, and not reduce it. I would appreciate a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e586	I'm not going to give any characteristic of the representative Malvik who had the floor, but I'm going to give a small characteristic of the post, that it points to everything that might be twisted and unlucky in the budget, always wins reverberation among many. And as a small parenthesis to the general discussion of the budget this year, it has been sad to record how many politicians have been actively involved and told of how bad it is, and how much wretched and difficult it is. This is also true within environmental policy. But it's important that we be able to work together on what we're all about, and the significant environmental challenges we have. The end of the post of the representative Malvik was perhaps a small signal that we can work together, for SV's programme and SV's formulations have a lot in common with what is the Government's environmental policy. For this reason, it is more important to point out the steps and the progress we take in relation to environmental policy than to mention what you think is too small and too small. I mentioned a little earlier that the Christian People's Party is pleased that we are in cooperation with the Right in Government, in that way moving the centre of gravity of Norwegian environmental policy in a straightforward way. The even more positive thing is that this time the Progress Party has written into several comments that go directly to positive and good environmental actions, and so we look forward to cooperation. We have a significant investment, as I understand it, within Enova. There is considerable research on getting e.g. CO2-free gas power plants, and I underline the environmentally friendly use of natural gas and renewable energy. That's where one really has to bet now, and I'm going to make sure that all good recordings will be carefully evaluated and taken in. But there's always a balance in the budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e593	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e596	One of the most frequently mentioned issues in the newspapers over the past few weeks has been electricity prices. This debate has basically also been quite marked by electricity prices and energy, so I think it's spent a lot of time on it, and that's said very well. That's why I think I'm jumping a little slightly over that part, because most people now know and I feel that there's a broad consensus about, that it's important to do more than turn off the light. There are a lot of elements in a case like this, something can be done quickly, and something has to be done in the long term. Research is one of the long-term things, and I think, after hearing the debate today, that the government parties have understood that it was unwise for them to be involved in research. I choose to take this easy in this context, and I go straight to Enova. Enova is not an old business – just probably one year. In this year, Enova received applications for funds for good projects, including: wind power, water-borne heat and aquifers far exceeding the available means. Only during the first quarter of this year Enova had received applications for project support of more than NOK 1 billion. When there is such a willingness to invest in renewable energy, it is a shame that there is no majority to increase the funding for Enova. It would have been well spent money. It was a proposal submitted today by the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, which is also an element in alternative energy sources. The proposal is to seek out a system of grants and loans for the installation of water and airborne heating in dwellings and public buildings. Because if we are to speed up the transition to water-borne heating and increased use of bioenergy, we need to support the investments. This will be an important contribution to stimulating the use of new sources of heating and reducing the use of expensive electricity and polluting oil, and I have to say it is pleasant if even more people join that proposal. There must be a lot of protection in this country, and more comprehensive and faster than before. The ambitions of environmental protection authorities are high, and the motives are probably good. It must be pleasant for the Minister for the Protection of the Environment to appear on the international list of protection statistics. However, protection must have more binding content than just a decision. Because it costs money, and it costs a lot of money. Natural resources are being decommissioned and fair compensation must be provided. Authorities must also supervise and co-operate in the management of the areas. In addition, an offensive effort should be made to create new activities and local activities in relation to the protected areas – maritimely within a sustainable framework. Unfortunately, it seems that the Government believes the job is done when a decision on passive protection is taken. It's a good principle to set bread by industry, as it's called. Similarly, the scope of protection needs to be adapted to the willingness to finance the commitments that accompany it. In the budget setting, the central party proposes to set a total of 4.3 million. additional to the State's natural supervision, so that at least posts can be created in the Dovrefjell-Sunndalsfjella National Park. Unfortunately, this has not been supported by the majority. However, there is support for the principle that information and supervision can be provided in national parks, that they can be anchored in local communities, and that it is also possible to purchase services from local mountain surveillance. In the year’s budget, there is also a new and very unfortunate trend in the need to increase the appropriations for predatory replacements, while the means for prevention are falling. The centre batch has thoughts about cost-effective instruments in predator management. I'll leave it, because luckily it'll be a good opportunity to come back more thoroughly to this theme of the year that comes. The cultural memory fund is a good thing. In the Uppland state, most of the buildings are protected throughout the country. There were last year's 11 million applications. NOK 2,4 million. kr was granted. This example clearly shows that there is a need for more money for cultural memory protection. Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund must be built up to become an important player in terms of caring for our valuable common values. It's an important matter for the Center Party. For the time being, there's a little bit of bad support from the majority, but we're not going to give up. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Central Party is included in the vote, and also proposal No. 24, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e620	Inger S. Enger has drawn up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e625	Where I come from, the West, the Centre Party is traditionally perceived as in the best sense a bourgeois and conservative party – a party with closeness to business, and not least concerned with exploiting resources for our common good. In today's budget setting, the Centre Party, as one of its main priorities, says that they will reduce the rate of extraction of oil and gas on a Norwegian base. This is the SV that has been targeted for all years. More often and more often, we unfortunately see that SV and the Center Party find each other. The traditional pickers of the lot are left wondering – the ones left. My question to the representative, Inger Enger, is: What answer does she have to all the companies and, in particular, the workers – yes, the entire coastal population – if the central party's degressive policy was implemented, with the economic consequences it would have for workers in this industry and the companies in the supplier industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e634	I thank the representative Halleraker for viewing us as a conservative party in many ways. I guess he said it was history, but it's not. We're in a lot of ways. And that's the advantage of being one part in the center: sometimes you put this down on one side, sometimes on the other, and yet it gets right. When this was about reducing the oil extraction, there's probably no new idea for the Center Party. The centre party has been there for a long time. That doesn't mean the oil shouldn't be used, but -- I kept saying -- it's there, so you know where you have it. And you have longer time. It is also necessary to ensure that resources are used in the long term. Besides, I have to say that Halleraker might have forgotten one of the things that we're actually going in for now, namely, increasing production, i.e. tail production in the mature field, and trying to extract more oil there. It is very important to exploit the areas already in use, not just to enter new areas. So that's our strategy in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e643	I'd like to challenge the Center Party a little bit on predatory policy. We're busy taking care of our international obligations in relation to the Berne Convention, that we're going to have the most important predator species, and that they're going to have good living conditions in Norway. I'm not sure what the Center Party means. It seems to me that the Center Party very often draws the gun as soon as they hear the word predators, and they have a lot in common with Americans. Sometimes it also seems as if the Center Party, if one had had the opportunity to fill with predators into Sweden, would have done so, to get them out. This means that the central part does not have any limits on how far you can go in order to get rid of the predators. Therefore, there is a great deal of uncertainty about whether the Senter Party really wants there to be predators in Norway. SV has presented two suggestions to try to make it a little simpler, for example. the primary activity in the district relative to predators. We have a proposal where we would like to try out a Swedish replacement model, where one gets the replacement in advance. He works there. What is the reason why the center part does not have an SV in it? Why doesn't the Centre Party support SV's proposal for a pilot project in the Nordreis in Nord-Troms, where one tries to achieve a coexistence, such as one. has it been done in Abruzzo, Italy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e650	I understand that Langeland and I have a slightly different starting point for this with the predators. He said there are no limits to how far the Senter party will go when it comes to getting predators to Sweden, for example. That's almost how it is. The predators don't have boundaries either. I never forget a newspaper headline. It was well in the nations, where it said it had been a census, and the title was: 13 wolves in Norway, 19 in Eastfold. So it kind of depends on how to count. The wolves run fast. They don't actually have boundaries. They're the ones who don't have it. We'll probably put grazing animals and bofe higher than we put predators. After all, it's a business. But I know we're going to deal with the Berne Convention, and we're going to have to take that debate another time. So when it comes to the central party's view of being part of this proposal, we said no to it. The background for that is that you should get compensation almost no matter what happens. I think it's very demeaning to the farmers that are involved, because they will in any case take good care of the animals, whether they get compensation or not. So for me it becomes very wrong when they can get compensation anyway. That is why we would not be included in the proposal. For me, it's going to be the same thing as saying that everyone gets sick pay, and you get the same amount no matter how healthy you are. That's how I feel about this too. You get compensation if you don't have loss. This is how I think this is wrong to be on. You put responsibility on the industry to an even greater extent than you've done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e662	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e665	More than anywhere else, in the field of energy and environmental policy, it is clear that the Cooperation Government is taking a new and far more offensive course than the Workers' Party Government did. For the left, of course, this is joyous. The left said in the election campaign that we wanted a government change, among other things. in order to have a more offensive environmental policy. That's what we got. Cooperation has been very positive in this area, and there has been a new shift in Norwegian environmental policy. Yesterday, the news came that British authorities are aiming at the introduction of a temporary ban on the emission of the radioactive substance Technetium. There is reason to believe that Norwegian government powers have had a certain impact on their current arguments towards the United Kingdom. The left is the drawer that the British government does not stop these emissions now. Nevertheless, there is hope that there may be good solutions, but this requires that we still have pressure on this matter. The left will be followed by government and government in the biging. At the same time, it is clear that the Left's activities around the coast to continue and intensify the efforts against nuclear pollution in the sea outside Norway will be kept by layers. The left priority was high on the last option, for example. through a country-wide signature campaign, where we collect over 40,000 signatures against Sellafield emissions. The approximate shock rate of electricity that we've experienced in Norway has both negative and positive sides. The negative side of the price of electricity to households has been strongly concentrated in the media and has created an image of a crisis that is not the basis for it. At the same time, it is clear that the sharp increase in electricity prices has made more alternatives to electricity competitive. This gives an increasing amount of work and bioenergy a strongly renewed argument that we can probably see in terms of reduced electricity consumption. It is important that the Government, through its budget, now facilitates the further use of this situation and strengthens efforts on energy savings and alternative energy sources. It is also worth mentioning the Government's environmental effort in other areas. In the budget of the Ministry of Transport, public transport licences are increasing considerably. It involves extra bets on the T-Bahn in Oslo, the Bergen urban railway and discounts for school students and students in public transport. Taking global responsibility – through a historically high aid budget – is also addressing the environmental challenges facing many poor countries. In fact, being involved in addressing environmental challenges in other parts of our world is also an important contribution to addressing our own environmental challenges. The air is for everyone, it's said. And pollution knows no borders. Parts of the opposition have been excited to claim that this government is partly jumping when the Progress Party wins the jump, and partly a pure Right Policy. One might be tempted to use unparliamentary expressions about such claims, but I'm going to be very careful to say that they are completely unsubstantiated. This applies in general, but not least in the policy area we are now debating. With all due respect for the Right parties, one must be able to say that environmental policy does not have their main field of action in recent years. I take parliamentary leader Oddvard Nilsen as a witness of truth when, in an earlier debate, he pink Left and Christian People's Party for their driving role when it comes to government's policy on the environment. Such cooperation may give rise to influence and new giving, including for an environmental exposure that has a doctor latent in the Right, including: from the current Minister for Environment's time as leader in the Young Right. The left slips over and likes to take its share of the era because this is an offensive environmental government. In the budget there is increased investment in energy saving and alternative energy, natural gas and hydrogen purification technologies, important signals about the use of natural gas, which can give us more gas ferries, increased efforts for safe food, environmentally friendly forestry conversion, more for research and more for energy deployment schemes. When an increase in post for coniferous forest protection is at the same time as an allowance of $18 million. For the monitoring of biological deficiency, the Government shows that one takes seriously the need for the protection of natural areas and the need for greater understanding of the importance of taking care of our biological deficiency. Environmental policy is about quality of life and health today and in the future. Environmental policy is to think of children and grandchildren and of the whole world when policy decisions are to be taken. Land protection, public transport, harmful emissions, a sustainable energy policy based on renewable sources and internationally committed cooperation are key ingredients of the Left's environmental policy. As I said at the beginning of my post: The Left-wing Cooperation Administration has given a new impetus to Norwegian environmental policy. Being part of a government cooperation is being able to influence to get through it as a burn for. The left is well satisfied with the government's commitment to taking important steps to address environmental challenges. Finally, the Left supports, of course, the proposals supported by the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e696	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e699	It was interesting to hear the representative from the Left, who claims that they are pursuing offensive environmental policies, while cutting environmental research and cutting into research at gas power plants with CO2 management. But what's even more interesting is when the Left is going into the election campaign and claiming that cooperation with the Progress Party in the environmental field leads to the Government's offensive commitment to the environment. The second thing that's going to be interesting is when the left goes out and they say they want a power price of around a heads kilowatt. They think it's right. Then we will have many alternative energy sources. So people have to pay the bill they get now is the policy of the left. That gives me reason to ask: isn't this a bit of a reason why the Left might not be higher on the polls than they are today? Doesn't Left see the reality that's out there in society, where the social office actually has to start paying electricity bills for people who can't afford to pay for themselves? And is it the Left's policy to increase the tax burden by $10 billion? I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e711	If I should briefly say something about the comparison with the Progress Party, there has actually been more funding for environmental action than less. The representative of Klungland is talking about this government having cut off research funds. We actually have extra posts for environmental research more than the government of Stoltenberg had added up, even if there was a small cut in the deal. What I think is positive is that in this room the government can reconcile with the Progress Party, with the Labour Party and with the Socialist Left Party on environmental policy and actually get a multiple for an even greater stake in this area than one had the previous period. So at power prices. No, left doesn't want a power charge of one dollar per. kilowatts. But what we see is that when the power price now rises, when the market works, there will also be alternative sources of energy that will be profitable. And when these become profitable, when people use them, we can reduce the electricity consumption, and the price can go down. But the most important thing is to have access to alternative energy sources that allow people to choose what is best for the environment. Then I think the current prices are going to fall in the long term. It's the market that has made it an increase. I've said, of course, that this is negative for all the households that are currently struggling financially, and that get this extra on the table. But in the long term, I think the price will go down, and people will use a lot of other energy sources that are just as good. Then I can finally say that it was happy with a little cut in the interest rate yesterday, which might be able to help compensate for some of the increase that many of those who have a difficult situation today get.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e720	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e723	Today we are dealing with the energy budget. Today a Christmas greeting goes out to the Norwegian people from Bondevik II and from Carl No. 1st@item: inlistbox Christmas greetings are about stealing 10 billion kroner from the Norwegian people and filling in a state box that's already filled in. We don't have room for all the money in Norway; we have to fund them, we have to place them abroad. We transferred clean energy, hydropower, to the rest of the world in the time we had flooded water storage plants. Now we have to import coal power, and we have to import nuclear power to fill the gap that has arisen. It is strange that in Europe in general they find that the gas is a clean source of energy, while in Norway we find that gas is phy phy. That's why we're sending the gas out of here. One must not think that we're making the flow of it, no, we're sending out the gas, then they're generating the flow down in Europe, and then we're importing that gas along with the flow of coal power and nuclear power. What are people going to do? Here they sit in their houses. Many of them are minimum pensioners. You want them to sit and freeze? We live in a country that is at the top of the globe, where the globe is fixed. I have to ask again, shall people sit and freeze? They're recommended to fire wood, they're recommended to fire oil instead of electricity, because we have to import it, and it's too expensive. The Progress Party says that electricity is a commodity of equal value to other commodities, so we can buy it. Yes, it is not dangerous to buy for those who have something to buy with. We got an interest reduction yesterday. The reduction in interest rates goes – to the same extent as in the game of free market forces – at a more expensive electricity price. People living in the districts want light in the street lights. People in the districts don't care so much about where the power comes from. They just care that the current is not too expensive. We who live in Oslo, have light in every corner of the house, we have power and light everywhere we go. What people are concerned about here is where the power comes from, and they're concerned about what it costs. When people have leaked houses, whether they've leaked floors or leaked windows, it's called that they're going to get subsidies to improve it. They won't. They have to take care of themselves. They have to get on the social side to get the money to pay the electricity bill. We have received a government that has said no thanks to continue researching CO2-free gas power emissions, and we have received a government that will not build gas power plants when we lack electricity. We've got an invasion of royal crabs. Although it is located in another department, in many cases one has to ask himself which department the coast belongs to. The royal crab, set up in Russia, has migrated to Norway and is now on its way to Svalbard and Bjørnøya – to a very vulnerable environment. Nothing will be done. We have made proposals here in this Chamber, from this pulpit, and nothing is being done to try to prevent it. No, after the bilateral negotiations, the Russians will have to catch more. I could give a long talk about the harness and the harness problem on the coast, but I'll try to keep away from it. I'll get back to case no. 3 to say something about Sellafield too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e742	I want to start by noting that we are dealing with the 2003 budget today. The reason why I do that is that when it comes to the bad environmental policy, the government parties claim to be responsible for the Stoltenberg government. I would remind you that this government probably has more within the environment than both Hornsrud, Gerhardsen and Willoch ever had. But that's the budget for 2003 we're dealing with, and then I would have appreciated that they had taken it on board. It turns out that the government is spending less on the environment and cuts in the environmental sector together with the Progress Party. Nearly a year ago, I had an interpellation here in the Storting. I then said, ‘... there will be a power crisis in a few years’ time in Norway. The Secretariat for the Cooperation of System Managers in the Nordic Electricity companies, Nordel, has created a new power forecast for the Nordic region. This shows that a dry year which in 1996 can lead to large zonal power disconnects in Norway. Before you get that far, we're going to experience a strong growth in electricity prices. In a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 15 February 2002, the Council of State writes that today we have a power balance deficit of 6-7 TWh in normal years and that marginal production in our power market is coal power. In the letter, the Council of State goes in to build gas power plants in Hammerfest. The argument for the construction of the gas power plant is that the import of energy into the LNG plant will be coal power. So we have a deficit of 6-7 TWh in a normal year. Drying may occur at any time.What will the Council of State do to ensure the power balance for Norway in the future?’ Yes, we have come a year closer to the crisis, and what has the government done? Two recent reports have been submitted by the NVE. One is about the power balance by 2015; the other is about the power of the Norwegian offshore sector. In these reports it appears that we have too little power and that we will still have less power available. We have record power prices. Statnet appears to have to split Kraft Norway into four regions to avoid disconnection, and power suppliers have stopped receiving new customers. I don't feel like saying: what did I say – although it can be tempting many times. It is a problem when one as an energy politician meets headlines like: end of free power selection, no to new power customers, the crisis forces power suppliers to kneel and cheap power suppliers to give up. But it becomes even more difficult when a person meets the headline that social offices are preparing for power assistance for Christmas. High power prices have an unsocial profile. They are families with young children, people with poor advice, municipalities and business that are primarily affected. The small children’s families have, as you know, a narrow economic environment, but if industry and jobs disappear, this is much more serious for Norway in the future. This is happening in the energy nation of Norway. This happens in a nation that floods with energy but chooses to export the energy out of the country as a commodity. The Aluminum Works in Farsund on the List loses NOK 3000–5000 per year. tons of aluminium they produce, instead of selling the power. Melting plants around the country stop production in order for the owner to earn more on the sale of power. In the ultimate sense, they may throw out workers to sell animal power to people who cannot afford to pay. On top of this, it has been found that it is not certain that the workers who are now being expelled will get paid once. The regulatory framework shall be such that, after the storage of the media, the enterprises cannot do so. So if this is right, we have a code that punishes the employees when the owner and the government are going to make more money. This is a practice that the Working Party will distance from. What are we doing? It is now time to take hands in gloves, but where is the Government? The government is obliged to do something about the situation before we get to the crisis. At least it cannot claim that it has not been warned. In the oral Question Time of 16 October, the Minister for Oil and Energy said: ‘But from our point of view, we do not see that the situation is such that we should move towards the high increases that are indicated, for example. on 30 p.m. It may be worth noting that the prices of the ‘10 on top’ Competition Surveillance Authority list for week 42 this year are significantly lower than the corresponding ‘10 on top’ list last year. So we're still in a good position, even though in the future we're going to have to expect some increase in power prices." And he goes on to say, ‘The government does not provide for a significant increase in electricity prices.’ What happened after that? The electricity prices are in the weather. In the Grand Duchy of December 4th, the Council of State says: ‘What we also see, however, is that the power market is working.’ And on the other hand, «Here we must trust that the market will give the necessary signals to consumers.» The following day, Aftenposten writes that Statnett ‘interacts in the market and divides the country into four price ranges’. There's really reason to ask, doesn't the Council have an overview? Will he not see the individual forces that come into the wake of the energy policy he pursues? Or does he want Norway to be a different country also in relation to energy issues and prices? The information director of Statnett, Tor Inge Aksensen, says that regulation is an intervention in the market and a signal that the situation is of concern. The solution to the power crisis is from the Government to blame the Workers' Party. The time for that must be over. The government must now see that it has a responsibility in relation to the situation we are up against. Thus, the Government uses gas power plants with CO2 management as a solution – while in the Advance Party budget they go in to reduce the allocation of alternative energy by 30 million. kr, for a few days afterwards to reduce the appropriations for CO2-free gas power plants instead. In the Sem statement, they promise NOK 100 million in the course of two years for such research. It cannot be easy for the Government to be a tailhang of the Progress Party in climate policy, energy policy and environmental policy. The Government has little credibility on the part of the Workers' Party in terms of the energy situation and security of supply. I am convinced that the majority of the Norwegian people do not have faith in the Government on this issue. It's a shame the Workers' Party doesn't get a majority to do anything about the situation. However, we are optimists and we are sure that the senses will prevail at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e798	A significant premise for the budget of the Cooperative Government was to help secure and create jobs. Strong priorities were necessary. The development of interest rates and exchange rates in the last days confirms that the Government is in the process of success. However, the Government is also very concerned about contributing to innovation and development, thereby providing the basis for future jobs. This is particularly important in energy research, because the potential for development is enormous on the value-creating side, and the consequences of new knowledge mean so much on the environmental side. Substantial funds have been allocated to energy research, nearly 260 million. kr. I note that this is an amount of government parties, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are in agreement, and that are otherwise fully in line with the last budget of the Stoltenberg government. And that's the current year we're talking about, not Hornsrud. An overall objective of research must be to involve industry more strongly. If you want to succeed in this field, there must be a good symbiosis between industry, the research community and the authorities. Tomorrow's energy solutions can only be developed in an offensive interaction between these environments. A good example of this is research on CO2 management. In the case of the Snow White extension, the licensees asked that the CO2-free gas power plant pilot project should not necessarily be located at the gas power plant in Melkøya, but at an existing gas power plant, in order not to disrupt the propulsion of the Snow White extension. The Government’s Gas Communication sets out the company’s commitment to Kårstø in Rogaland for the development of such a pilot project. I think I have the whole committee with me when I say that we look with keen expectation until the licensees get started on this important research project. Research on CO2 management has a high priority and attention in the political environment. It is also an exciting idea that exhaust gases from gas power can be used for value-creating industrial purposes, such as: algae production as the basis for fish feed for the farmed industry. The specific plans available in this area, both from the Green Global Energy at Kolsnes and from Statoil at Kårstø, are of concern to the Committee, and we believe that state participation in this field is important for success. Hale production and increased use of reserves are research areas that the majority of the Committee would like to give priority to. If, through increased tail production, we also increase the extraction rate from today's 44 pst. to 50 p.m., yes, this implies a gross value added of about 450 billion kroner. There is also much we can do on NOx emissions from internal combustion engines, especially from diesel combustion. State Council Børge Brende has put Norway on the map in an environmental context, with a particularly high profile and credibility of emission and climate policies. The Gothenburg Protocol commits us to a reduction from today's 260 000 tonnes to 193 000 tonnes, i.e. a reduction of 67 000 tonnes. The share of these emissions in the coastal fleet is 40 pst. The Committee has therefore paid particular attention to the priority given to this group in the future. Cheap and affordable measures have been developed that can be implemented with a relatively short time horizon. Switching to gas operation is, of course, even better as a long-term goal, but costs more and will take longer. Finally, I mention that the government will also increase the amount of hydrogen and alerts that it will facilitate the establishment of a larger national hydrogen programme. It is forward-looking and testifies that the Government has visions to get closer to the goal of exploiting hydrogen as one of the most important and purest energy carriers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e815	Work on the creation of national parks and protected areas has accelerated during this government. The result is that many local people and many local democracies feel neglected and overwhelmed by the Government and bureaucracy. A number of landowners get their properties tied up, without real opportunities and the right to compensation for losses. In view of the principles of the Basic Law on private property rights, the clear unfair treatment of local communities and of landowners and a high level of conflict in the protection of areas, we believe that there is a need for a thorough review of further protection work. It is with disappointment that we note that the government parties, with the right in mind, will not be in favour of our proposal to promote the necessary measures to reduce conflicts in connection with the creation of protected areas. Norway is a country with a unique nature and landscape. It is important that positive natural experiences in our country are ensured for the use of future generations. In other words, unnecessary restrictions must not be imposed on measures and activities intended to increase the availability and use of nature in a sound manner and which do not harm nature. Several attempts have been made to start eco-friendly activities in nature parks and protected areas. These tourism-oriented business activities can contribute to important and badly needed jobs in districts, summer and winter. However, many initiatives are stopped due to restrictions on regulation and lack of will on the part of central authorities. Fortunately, the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, which agrees that by 1 October 2003, the Government will return to the United Kingdom with a case of sustainable use of land and mountain areas, gives hope for better times. Initiatives contributing to the development of quality tourism, respecting local communities and democracy, should be developed and supported. I am pleased that the Progress Party was able to bring with it the government parties and the other parties to increase the funding for the fight against Gyrodactylus by 5 million. kr in the year’s budget. Equally important is the implementation of the Natural Management Action Plan Directorate against Gyrodactylus and the long-term follow-up to the control of the salmon parasite, and the provision of the necessary means to follow up the action plan in the next year’s budget. I must also say that I am well pleased that we managed to get 10 million. additional to the protection of vessels during the budgetary negotiations with the Government Parties. That these 10 million. kr came to a separate post, at least gives me hope that in the coming years too, money will be allocated on this post from the Government, and preferably more than the amount of the day. Last year, a majority of people asked for a separate message about maps and spatial data. It has not been followed up by the Council of State. I find it quite strange and eye-catching that the Council of State has not followed up on the wishes of the majority of the population, especially since he assesses a large and extensive phase of conversion, organisational and task-oriented, at the Staten Kartverk. It is therefore necessary this time with a separate proposal, since the Council of State obviously does not care about the majority comments of the Committee. The majority behind the proposal are concerned that all aspects and consequences of the conversion are apparent and that no changes occur until the notification has been addressed by the Storting. It is therefore important to clarify that the last sentence of VI of the proposal for a framework independent decision is replaced by the following: ‘Until such a notification has been addressed by the Stortinget, the organisation and operation of the State Quartet does not change’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e834	And we're going to try to remember that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e837	The budget currently under consideration by the Storting includes many of the most central assumptions and objectives for the further development of a good welfare society in our country. A safe and environmentally friendly energy supply, power transmission, preparedness, water resource management, consideration of developments on the base that ensure value creation and revenue within a sustainable framework, and not least research in the energy and petroleum sectors, are important pillars for the further development of well-being. The government first announced an offensive initiative in the Sem Declaration and then in the Gas Communication to accelerate the realisation of gas power plants with CO2 handling. For 2002, it is set at 50 million. kr through the Research Council for the Development of Environmental Gas Power. In addition, 25 million were granted in the context of the revised national budget. kr for the production of environmentally friendly gas technologies. The government wants to continue the offensive investment in gas power plants with CO2 management. Research and development and pilot testing will be a priority in the years ahead. This means, among other things: that, when there is a specific project request that the Government wishes to support, we will make proposals for funding to implement such a project. As indicated in the Gas Communication, the Government will also facilitate an investment aid scheme for full scale gas power stations with CO2 management from 2006. This shows that, in addition to designing a responsible budget, the Government is also very concerned with accelerating environmentally friendly gas power solutions. The agreement on the budget has led to a reduction in the appropriations for research, and in particular in support of gas power plant cleaning technology, compared to the Government's original proposal. The employees' representatives are trying to give the impression that the Workers' Party has focused more on such research at CO2-free gas power plants. That's not right. The cooperative government's commitment to research at CO2-free gas power plants for 2003 is at least at the level of the Stoltenberg Government's proposal for the current State budget. As regards the situation in the power market, several speakers have addressed this issue. I come in line with what has been explained earlier, back to this case in a separate article on Tuesday. I therefore find no reason to go any further into it. I just want to show that what the Workers' Party has presented in nine points together with SV would not mean a single kilowatt-hour more in the situation we are up today. A number of those proposals are good proposals, and they are in fact consistent with the Government's own proposals. In a number of other areas, there is a new policy. But I have some comments on how such a policy would turn out in more kilowatt hours. At least there would be fewer of these kilowatt-hours per. krone than if Enova could be free to dispose of such funds. The oil and gas industry is Norway's main industry, and the long-term value creation in the sector shall ensure national value creation and well-being of the community for generations to come. We are facing very heavy technological challenges in the further management of resources on the continental shelf, both in terms of ensuring increased resource use, the development of smaller fields and the extraction of deeper water, as well as in relation to the environment. In St.meld. No 38 for 2001-2002, About oil and gas activities, the Government draws up a long-term development scenario for activities and production on Norwegian continental shelf. Increased public and private investment in research will be an essential factor in realising this development pathway. The main emphasis of technology development takes place in the supplier industry and in the research environment. These operators do not have the same revenue from the activities as the State and the oil companies. Experience has shown that a government crown triggers the triple of related investments in the oil and gas cluster. Through ownership interests and taxes, the country takes the major part in the increase in value creation from the business. The majority of the Committee calls for an investigation into different models of public co-financing for research in this field. I am in favour of both of the two proposals, both of which are also central to the Government's oil report, and which will be dealt with in the Stortinge next week. I have also noticed that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will join the proposals. Finally, I have to say a little about Snow White. We have been informed by the media that the cost increases for the Snow White development will amount to approximately NOK 5 billion. This is significantly higher than previously assumed. The increases in costs are mainly related to increases in the weight of the land installation and also to delays in the ESA case. – President, if I can only complete this important information for Stortinget, I am grateful for that. The Ministry had a meeting with the operator, Statoil, on 9 December, where Statoil informed that preliminary calculations show that the total cost increase for the project could be between 5 and 6 billion kroner. According to Statoil, snow-white development remains a socially viable project. This project is to be dealt with by Statoil’s Board of Directors on 13 December and the company will then provide precise estimates for the development of the project. I'm not hiding that I'm worried about the cost development of the Snow White project, and the department will follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e871	Let me first say in relation to Snow White that I expect the Council of State to keep us informed about developments. That is what I have understood, and that was also in the Council of State now said. Then I want to ask some questions about the evolution of power prices, because there is no doubt that many people are going to have major problems with the bills that come after Christmas. Then there will have to be some more emergency measures, but we also need to solve for the future what is the main problem, namely the lack of force. I have to say that there I have not seen so many initiatives from today's government. In fact, there is a strong cut in research at gas power plants with CO2 management, which should then be the answer. We don't have to have a long debate about who had the most, but we're minimizing the cut that the government parties and the Progress Party are now adding up here. And as Sintef says, «We are in the midst of research projects funded by the Research Council and are very concerned that this ongoing activity may have to be cut.» This means that the gas power stations with CO2 handling are pushed out in time. That means that we have even less opportunities to get more power into the market, which is now necessary. And for the current year it was actually granted a total of 65 million. SEK for this type of research, and for next year 20 million has been allocated. kr. And if that's not a difference, I don't know. The government will not have gas power plants with today's technology. The government is pushing ahead and has to spend longer time before we also get gas power plants with CO2 handling. Governments and government parties are voting against a wide range of renewable energy proposals, which would also have contributed positively to power shortages and thereby reduced prices, and the government could have gotten more money to Enova if they had chosen to cooperate with us. But that's what the government chose. Where is the Council of State going to take power from to bring down electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e887	It's important that we make sure that the electricity prices can go down. It is important for private households and for the public sector as well as for business. And in relation to the measures that I will come back to in the Grand Duchy meeting on Tuesday 17 December, I will come to a closer look at both the initiatives I have taken and the actual situation. We see that Norpool's spot and forward prices have increased very strongly since last week, but the development of the first part of the week 50 suggests that these prices are now stabilising. However, we cannot be quite sure of this. When asked by others if the Council of State does not have control, it is that much can be controlled politically, but has not been under my department. It had to be the Church Ministry that might be closest to taking care of it. But it is clear that the combination of an unusually dry harvest – in fact the driest harvest since the NVE began the measurements in 1931 – combined with an early winter, has created an extreme situation. And I have to say I'm very excited about the energy market that is established with the Workers' Party's support and a clear majority in this big business, will also tolerate this extreme situation. I had an interesting meeting yesterday in Stockholm with Minister Pagrotski from the Social Democratic Government in Sweden, and we agree on how to assess this. I also think it is important to say that the households that will get into trouble because of high electricity prices need help. This is what the Government sees, and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has today sent out a press release to warn them of increased support for lighting and heating in the housing support scheme to help 75 000 households who can come under a scheme to remedy that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e896	Moreover, the Council of State is known for having a good relationship with both the Ministry of the Church and with others who may influence the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e899	I have on several occasions challenged the Minister of Oil and Energy on what he will do to increase the supply in the power market. Every time I hear the same lesson about the conversion of energy use and the same belief in the fact that only one gets the rift of enough billions of windmills, this will be enough to meet the demand in the power market. I have warned the Council of State on several occasions that, of course, this will not be enough – in the near future – without the Council of State having taken this seriously. Therefore, in view of the precarious situation we now have in the power market, with the price developments you have seen, I would like to ask the Council of State what is going on to see the seriousness of the situation. Do you have to raise to five kilowatts and streaming before he wants to throw off the action mud and open up for more power expansion, so that we can at least now build up the Sauda watercourse?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e906	It is necessary, as Mr Vaksdal rightly says, to facilitate a secure, predictable energy supply. It is not desirable that we face situations where we cannot have predictable power prices at a stable level and that we can deliver to the market what they want at any time. This applies to the energy balance, but also to the power balance. The impact balance is also a major challenge because there are bottlenecks in the network that we have to do something about. But what makes it difficult to agree with the representatives of the Vaksdal and the Progress Party on the energy policy to facilitate is that this energy policy must be sustainable in relation to important environmental and climate considerations. The representative Vaksdal himself has said that it seems to him to be defrauding – I think that's what he said – a few million to Enova. We have a completely different policy, a completely different purpose to take. We want to get out of the unilateral dependence on hydropower by supplementing with new renewable energy sources. We do not see this as a waste of money, but as a reasonable complement to a more flexible energy portfolio. At the same time, we must bet on reasonable power saving, energy saving, for example. by betting on water pumps and good insulation. And in a situation like this, we must also — to a limited extent, of course, and limited in time — allow firing with oil. In addition to this, I am also actively working to improve the coupling both in the Nordic market and in Norway, where there are bottlenecks, and to ensure that the Nordic energy market is supplied with the necessary external power. Today we import both from Russia and Germany. These included: this I brought up with the Swedish minister. And we have a common point of view and attitude for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e915	First of all, what now seems to be developing into a scandal in the Snow White field, where an already up to $5 billion in excess, where Hydro wants to pull out, and where we know that the state through Statoil and HEAT is in possession of large ownership – HEAT with 30 pst. With Åsgard fresh in memory, the Council of State should really grasp this matter and make sure that the Stortinget gets the necessary information, so that one can relate to what is actually happening, because it seems that the increase in costs can be even greater than what we know today. I therefore challenge the Council of State to say a little about how he will handle the matter in relation to Stortinget. So at the power price: The deregulation that the Christian People's Party and others stood for would bring the consumers a lower price. It was the whole intention of the changes in energy laws. And then you see the result, where you get a high power price, which SV is not initially on if you don't target the income. If an e.g. This increase in prices would allow more money to be spent on energy saving, would be a good measure. But that's not what's happening. The state uses the income saying completely different things. Governments spend the money on tax havens for rich people, on cheaper spirits. That's what money goes into. They're not going to bring down the energy consumption, which is necessary. That is why my challenge, as I said in my main post, is that the Council of State will now be involved in a constructive cooperation with the Swedish Government on taking action to reduce our consumption, thereby avoiding a pressure when it comes to the construction of gas power plants, Saudi Falls, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e922	When it comes to the Snow White matter, of course, I want to inform the Storting appropriately about the situation. I said in my post that I am concerned about the situation. Statoil has been through poor project management in previous projects. The representative referred to Åsgard. Mongstad is also a keynote. But I have to make it clear that today I have no reason to assume that the Snow White project will merge into the range of such projects. As far as we can see today, based on information from Statoil, Snow White is still a profitable project. But the profitability of the project will, of course, be reduced when one gets that kind of cost. I will await the board meeting tomorrow, where quality assurance figures will be provided, and where we will then be briefed. Then I will return with the necessary relevant information to Stortinget. I'll take responsibility for that. I am very pleased – I did not have time to say that in my main post – the positive, broad support – with the exception of the Advance Party – as regards the opening up of Enova and the important work they are doing. I'm not hiding that holding so much money through different budget rounds, both internally and externally, is a challenge. I am very pleased that at least that amount has stood through all these budgetary rounds, and that Enova can at least get what they should have, and what the Storting has agreed to have, that is, approx. 500 million. kr, and that we can create a stable, predictable framework for this. It is not the deregulation of the market that has created the high prices. In fact, consumers today benefit from lower prices than with the old scheme. We have a special situation today, with higher prices than we want, but that's a situation I'm set to bring back to more normal conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e931	At first I allow myself to comment on some of the Steensnæs mentioned in a previous article. He said he wasn't the master of the weather. We don't have to ask for that. And that it has been a very dry harvest, we are also aware of. But I thought that the Council of State might have had the power to do something about our net exports by force, because we actually had a net export out of Norway until November 17. It's quite a long time after it had stopped counting very many places in the country. That's it. Otherwise, I have here the «Strategy for the Development of Waterborne Heat». It's an offensive letter from Steensnæs. It says very well, and I must say that it has well been like a flagship for the Government. But when we read in budgetary terms, it's very difficult for the Central Party to find out what the strategy plan says. We have a negative on energy research, and Enova has a $500 million worth of it. kr, as Steensnæs now said. But there are a lot of us who wanted Enova to get more money. How does Steensnæs feel about progress in this strategy after the budgetary conciliation? Finally, there's a proposal on all the desks, but I don't know if it's on the councils' desk. Steensnæs said today that he could plan to support some proposals. I would therefore like to ask Steensnæs whether he will allow the Government to support proposal No. 24 today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e940	That's right. I have been given the opportunity to look at the proposal, and I can start with it. The intention of this proposal is positive. However, what needs to be assessed is what can be profitable without State aid, so that we do not spend very important priority money on measures that will be profitable in any case and where information may be the most important measure. The second is that we do not create a market that is inflated, so that unprofessional actors get into the market. There has been an interest that we have assessed in conversations with Enova – simply that we build the market to make it quality, and that there are serious actors invited in. I am willing to look at the proposal from Inger S. Enger, but I ask that I then have the opportunity to assess this on a free basis and report back to Stortinget. I therefore recommend that this proposal be submitted to the Government for further consideration. For the term ‘net exports from Norway’, everyone knows what one is talking about. But really it's more about power flows out and into the country, because we're in a Nordic electricity market. We're not actually exporting and importing, but all the players in the Nordic electricity market are on the same footing and are going to make sure that the whole market works. What's going to be a little bit difficult is these bottlenecks that make this not a perfectly functioning market. When situations arise like this, we know, among other things. that parts of the West are getting into trouble. We just can't deal with a flow of power that makes us get one's prices in the market. There are price zones, and we have to deal with this situation. It does the professionally responsible agency, Statnett, which ensures that we do not raise any further problems. It is on this basis that I ask that one respect the way in which the actors should behave, so that the market functions as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e951	The Council of State said that the proposal of the Workers' Party and the SV would not bring a new kilowatt-hour into the market. It has to be with respect to report it a little wrong, because it has to be the principle that a saved kilowatt-hour is a kilowatt-hour earned, and of course it will come on the market. But this is an example of the devaluement that the Government and the Council of State have in terms of energy issues. It's not to hide that we're very disappointed that we're not getting a majority for the proposals that are coming. Yesterday, we received a letter from the Council of State on what is going on in two-way communication, with the same de minimis approach. So he looks very positive at the suggestions, but they won't mean anything. Therefore, he is ultimately negative to follow up the proposals. I think that is a frightening attitude, because we now have a price of energy that is far above the ceiling. I got a phone call from someone who had found his mother in the living room. She had six degrees there and had turned off all the lights, for she was afraid of the rations. She remembered it from the war. It has to go into the Council of State that such cases occur today. The State network has regulated Norway into four areas. I think that suggests that there are problems in relation to the free market. Does the Council agree that the Energy Act does not actually work when the market is as busy as it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e963	I would like to ask that one do not see it as de minimis when one is given proposals for assessment, and when one goes professional, concrete and seriously and assesses whether this can be a proposal that can remedy a difficult energy situation. I do it based on the best professional judgement and with the best intentions. As a government council, I have no record of just having to deal with what had to come up in my own department, or in my own head. In fact, I am more than willing to cooperate with the Storting on all the positive measures that we need. We actually need an idea momentum when it comes to a lot of suggestions, so I'm open like a bar door in relation to this. These are aspects of the proposal submitted by Sylvia Brustad – there were perhaps several co-sponsors too – in the case of two-way communications, and I have explained that. But it's primarily on the power side and not on the energy side. I would ask the representative of Klungland to read this, not with – let me say – scepticism because he did not get full support and enthusiasm in all areas that the proposal was intended to cover, but limited to where it actually matters. I'm positive with this, and it's also in my answer. I also hope that the representative of Klungland will not add to a slight rhetoric that indicates that older people misunderstand this situation, turn off the ovens and freeze – because in fact there is also, and that is sad! There's no reason to do that. There shall be ‘soft light and lots of heat’ also at the time of the light into which we are now entering. We must inform together in a proper way, so that older people who do not have a full overview, and who have experienced narrow times during the war, do not misunderstand. This can cause anxiety. I would like to ask that the representative Klungland and others also contribute to this. But it's clear that there's a difficult situation, and we have our full challenge to figure this out. As far as the Energy Act is concerned, I would say: I really hope not that the representative Klungland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, is now in the process of creating doubts about the Energy Act and the Nordic Energy Market, for we have agreed on this. There are problems, but we have confidence that Statnett and others who are responsible will do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e974	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e977	Let me first point out that I am a little surprised that the Council of State disclaims responsibility for the weather on a general basis. I think it might have been in place that the Minister for the Environment and Oil and Energy contacted the Minister for the Environment and got a small introduction in the relationship between fossil energy, greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. For us who do not put our trust in higher powers in solving these problems, we actually consider the oil and energy minister to be the most responsible for the weather, because he affects the activity of the Oil and Energy Department every day. The government has emerged in the media since last autumn as active drivers for the development of new renewable energy. The government has traveled around the country and the beach and talked hot to increase the share of renewable energy. Both at the UN Summit in Johannesburg and at the Climate Change Conference in New Delhi, Norway was at the forefront of increasing the share of new renewable energy to 10 pst. by 2010. I can say with my heart that I was very proud to be from Norway when I was at this conference, and was very pleased with the efforts of the Environment Minister. But such an effort obligates. In retrospect, according to Today’s Economy, it has been shown that the Government has been in a parallel position in Brussels and has negotiated with the EU that Norway should not increase the share of renewable energy, thereby avoiding a requirement that the EU has made in the form of a new directive. The rationale given by the Steensnæs State Council is that the exemption is necessary to build these gas power plants, which became very clear through the gas message provided by the Government in the middle of the climate summit in New Delhi. In the light of the Government's climate policy commitment, this was very unfortunate, but it was perhaps at the same time a signal of what we can expect from a government whose political life lies in the hands of the Progress Party. Of course, the Government's efforts in international negotiations are commendable, but it all becomes a little less credible when the Minister for the Environment's glowing enthusiasm is not reflected in the budget papers. Then I am not just talking about the cuts in the Ministry of the Environment budget, among others. cut at 15 million. kr in environmental research. And the fact that in the agreement, it was cut by $45 million. kr in energy research, which was certainly painful for the Christian People's Party, had to do quite a bit bad into the Minister for Climate Policy's conscience. The 2003 budget should have embarked on a new direction for Norwegian energy policy. Norway’s biggest contribution to this in the energy field must be to reduce oil and gas production and to put a stop to exploration for new oil and gas fields, increased investment in value creation through renewable energy sources, increased energy efficiency and energy saving. The main steps we are proposing to start this conversion are: The main device should be re-prioritized from petroleum research to research into new renewable energy and an increase in the use of significantly more funds to invest in new renewable energy through Enova targeted investment in bioenergy offensive conversion from heating with fossil energy sources and electricity to heating with new renewable energy sources. Future energy sources are renewable. Norway needs to increase the investment in new renewable energy sources such as wind power, bioenergy, solar heating and wave power. New renewable energy sources are characterised by the fact that they do not lead to greenhouse gas emissions and have less pressures on the environment than other energy sources. A very central part of a change in energy policy is the need for new technologies. Energy security is about having more legs to stand on. This is also a sensible business policy. The market for new and renewable energy technologies is growing rapidly, and Norway should prepare for a reality in which oil and gas will play a much less important role. This is why we want a strong increase in the appropriations for energy research, and are still committed to the introduction of natural gas. The power crisis has received a lot of attention in the media lately. High prices are themselves an incentive for energy saving, but the problem is that many often cannot afford to make the necessary one-off investments to save on electricity. For this reason, we in SV want to introduce support schemes for households that will contribute to the energy and power balance, according to the model of our neighbouring country Sweden. If it is in Sweden, it is also possible in Norway. This is a typical win-win situation both for the country and for consumers, doing good both for the power and power balance and for the individual wallet. This is something of the background for us, among other things. wishes for a sharp increase in transfers to Enova. In my view, there is little doubt that Enova is underfunded in view of the objectives and time horizon for these objectives, the objectives are far too ambitious.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1030	This year the Ministry of Environment marked its 30th anniversary. Over the 30 years, there has been a raging development in environmental protection policy. In the year of the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, the proximity of local, national and global environmental protection work has become particularly visible. Norway worked for the most binding objectives in Johannesburg. In cooperation with other positive forces, we agreed not only to avert setbacks, but also to move positions. Now we're going to turn the words from Johannesburg into action here at home. The 2003 state budget is just about that. In Johannesburg, it was decided that biodiversity loss should be significantly reduced by 2010. We're used to thinking about the rainforest when we talk about the biodiversity of the world. We also have species that are threatened by extinction and that can only be saved if we secure the habitats. At the same time, the wilderness areas in Norway have been reduced. There's been a lot of talk about talking about talking little from Stortinget's pulpit if you don't put it into practice. The Government fully agrees. That's why we created the first new national park in Forollhogna in ten years, to take care of perhaps the most beautiful reindeer, and at least the largest, in Norway, and to secure the wild. We have also established Norway's largest continuous protection area during this year, the Dovrefjell-Sunndalsbergella, where the wild rain is also an important element. After many years of waiting, we have cut through and actually adopted Coast Guard Plan Nordland, which involves over 60 new protection areas, perhaps one of the most beautiful of Norwegian nature. There are also areas here, three in fact, that qualify for the UNESCO World Heritage List nomination. You have coastal landscapes in Vega, Tyssfjord-Hellemobotn and the outer part of Lofoten – amazing examples of nature that those who come after us will have the same opportunities to experience as we do. We have the Near Island Fjord in Sogn and Fjordane and the Geiranger Fjord in Møre and Romesdal, who are also now qualified to be on the UNESCO World Heritage List. We have also adopted a protected landscape area in connection with Nærøyfjorden. As far as coniferous protection is concerned, we have implemented something many have talked about, but not so much has been done about, and it concerns all the harmful environmental subsidies that exist in this area. In the context of the budget, the Minister for Agriculture has made changes to the subsidisation of unincorporated trees and has also made changes to the subsidies for the construction of forest roads. There are many who have been talking about the wild axis for many years, but this government has actually presented a proposition, which the Stortinget has to deal with, which proposes the creation of 37 national salmon rivers and 21 national salmon fjords. So now it's up to the Storting to deliver also in terms of this proposition. The government has also proposed a new offensive against old environmental sins through increased PCB clean-up appropriations. That's 10 million. kr in increase here plus 20 million. kr in the commitment authorisation. In particular, follow-up to what came out of the Johannesburg Conference is to minimise the damage caused by chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment by 2020. We have become painfully aware that we have problems locally, but that they are created globally in this area. Marine and air flows make the northern regions a global waste site for pollutants. The polar bear prevails in polar regions but becomes a helpless victim of PCBs and other dangerous substances that wander in the food chain. Mushrooms are no longer recommended for use in children and women of childbearing potential. To achieve concrete results at home, we also need to work internationally to reduce and stop production and use in all countries. With its 30 years, the Ministry of the Environment is a young department. Environmental protection policy is a young area of concern. We've done a lot, but there's a lot left. It is particularly important to understand the opportunities inherent in environmental protection and cultural memory protection, rather than focusing on the constraints. Cultural heritage is a source of historical understanding and national pride and identity, where the Cultural Memory Fund will be central and also the additional allocation now granted to the protection of vessels. Norwegian tourism will be much stronger in international competition if we protect cultural memories and environments, and if we take care of the wild breeds and our unique natural areas through the protection work. The government is doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1063	The government has now been sitting for a little over a year. When the budget we are discussing today was presented, we expect that it was a follow-up to the promises made by the Government in environmental policy. The government has said that it will safeguard the rights of all and open air, but instead it submitted a budget which will carry on too low a budget for the purchase of areas that should be guaranteed to the public, and the Government cuts in the badly needed means of outdoor life. The government has said that it will strengthen local environmental work, including: with regard to the monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity, but when the budget was submitted, the Government had cut off a number of items relating to local environmental protection. The government has said it will strengthen environmental protection research. But what happens? Yes, in cooperation with the Progress Party Kutter Regeringen 15 million. SEK for environmental research, SEK 15 million. SEK for energy research and 30 million. SEK for research in gas power plants with CO2 handling. It's a dramatic cut, and it's particularly worrying when the reason for the Advance Party is that you don't believe in the researchers or don't like their conclusions. If politicians are to distribute the research funds according to the conclusions of the party programmes, we are in a dangerous state of development. I have two questions for the Council of State. Firstly, when has the Council of State planned to go from word to action in terms of strengthening the free-air and universal rights and strengthening local environmental work? And secondly, does the Council of State feel comfortable working with the Progress Party and through it make dramatic cuts in environmental and energy research?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1074	In the government's original draft budget, there was a real increase in the environmental budget – after taking into account impact adjustments – by 3.9 pst. After the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party was in place, there is an increase of 3.7 pst next year. That this is going to be a dramatic cut, I have a little problem understanding. I think that we got a good budget agreement with the Progress Party, not least we got a good illustration of it yesterday, that the budget was designed in such a way that it also added up to a fall in interest rates. In addition, we received increases in two very central areas: the control of the Gyrodactylus salaris salmon parasite by 5 million. NOK, and we also got increased efforts in relation to old environmental sins in the case of PCBs. When it comes to the open-air budget, I also do not remember the description given by the representative of Konglevoll. The open-air budget receives a net increase, which is an increase of 2 million. kr for fuse, with 3 million. DKK for actions in national parks and SEK 3 million. to actions in other nature protection and open air areas. And this comes in addition to all the natural areas that the Government has now secured for the future, by cutting through and creating the first new national park in ten years and Norway's largest continuous protection area, Dovrefjell-Sunndalsjella. We have cut through and have also adopted Coastal Protection Plan Nordland. In More and Romesdal, we have taken care of important river deltas through a plan that has been lying and incubating for too long. I think what we've done is good for the environment, and that's good budgeting. But it's not just money that decides on the Ministry of the Environment's budget, you also have to make the right decisions. There are many possibilities for making use of money in a sensible way. As far as climate research is concerned, there is no real cut in relation to last year. It is still a small addition, as far as I have understood. It is also true that overall the adjustments that have been made on the research side are to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1085	Following the budgetary conciliation in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, we received in the Progress Party a letter from the Right, dated 3 December, signed by Leif Frode Onarheim, and I will quote from the letter relating to the Cartwork: ‘In order to align the activities of the Cartwork with the budgetary framework, the Government proposes to implement efficiency measures in the Cartwork. By sharpening the establishment and reducing the number of county agencies from 18 to 12, 50 to 60 annual works could be saved.’ If this results in correctness, the Stortinget should have received the message requested by the majority last year, especially since a number of county-cartel offices are to be removed. Many annual works are to be saved, which may mean cancellations. How is the provision of services to the population in the areas that lose services provided by the Map Offices? Can the Council of State confirm from the Spokesman of Storting that the notification is coming, and that the reorganisation and operation of the Cartel is suspended until the Storting has dealt with the Map Message? And does the letter from Right and Onarheim lead to correctness?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1097	I just want to clarify what was said in a previous line change, that in the last year's budgetary position, it was a majority comment – not a proposal – that a map message was wanted to be presented. At the same time, however, it was also stressed that a review of the entire activity of the Cartel was sought in the context of the revised national budget. That review came, and it also came with money, 20 million. kr i addition to the Cartwork. I have now understood that the Committee is not satisfied with that review, that at least what came into the revised national budget in ours was not sufficient. And it's clear that when the Storting adds that you ask the Government to promote a map message, I have no other option than to take note of it, and of course I will. I also take note of what the majority of people are likely to adopt today, that until the chart message is presented and – I have also understood – adopted by the Stortinget, there will be no major reorganisations in the activities of the Cartwork. The last bit I'm a little more concerned about, because it's a very tight budget for the Cartwork next year that Stortinget now decides, so it would have been most appropriate that the Cartwork had the freedom to organize itself in relation to the level of allocation it has set. You don't get the opportunity to do that, but here you just have to take note of what the size probably adds up to. There's going to be a map message in the spring. I hope that there will be a map message that gives a good overview of the possibilities we have in the future. And especially after digitisation and maritime mapping are completed in 2006, there are also other opportunities. So there's going to be a good debate in Stortinget, a good follow-up in the committee, and I also hope to be able to review the structure of the Mapping and what is the appropriate way to organise itself in the future, where competition should also be an important element.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1106	Governments have perceived the bulk of the population correctly when it comes to the Mapping. I just want to suggest that the majority will also understand that when one has to stop, it can have budgetary implications, and we will come back to it in the context of the revised national budget. This is my signal to what is humbly understood by the Council of State. Then I have a certain understanding that the Council of State uses its article on the list of boasts. I think it makes sense to show you what one gets. But what's going to be my challenge is the following: When the government proposes to do something about the fallacy, the government's other government is doing something against it. It is such that when the Council of State Fire tries to do something for the wild, State Council Ludvigsen comes to grips with a rush of breeding facilities and puts it in the way of the protection that the Council of State would have. And not only does he give 40 new concessions in the middle of Storting's treatment of the error message, but he also comes up with 50 new concessions in the agreement with the Progress Party, because he's going to get 240 million. SEK – 50 concessions that the people and the market do not want. Nevertheless, the Council of State says that this budgetary agreement is positive for the environment – when it has such consequences for what all environmental protection organisations believe is an important commitment to preserving the wild species and our international responsibility for it. This requires an explanation. Finally, PCBs have been an old, good Right cause. But I am surprised that the Council of State is so vague in its wording. SV wants to step up the bet on this, and asks why he is not more clear about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1118	The reason why there is now an odelstingsproposition in the Stortingen on the wild species is that there has been good cooperation between the fisheries authorities and the environmental authorities in this submission. Now we have a concrete proposal on the table in relation to the fact that in some areas the wild game will have the right to drive. But it should not come as a surprise to the representative of Langeland that new salmon concessions are coming from a government that is actually positive to the farming industry – representing important jobs in District Norway. In any case, it should not be surprising that two government councils from the Right, which have always been positive to the farming industry within a sustainable framework, support this. What has been crucial for me is that it must be possible to maintain the Atlantic wild axis, while at the same time having a strong breeding industry. The breeding industry now represents DKK 20 billion in export income for Norway, and it should do so in the years to come. But what the government is doing is simply making concrete proposals on how to reduce these contradictions. The Minister for Fisheries has, a few weeks ago, cut through and decided that farming facilities must be ISO certified, and everyone must be by 2006 to prevent escapes. 500 000 to 600 000 farmed salmon are escaped each year and it does not last. We also work in relation to a gyro plan. The Directorate for Nature Management has presented this, and in the context of the 2004 budget presentation we will have a review of it by the Government. We have also increased the effort to combat gyro in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. We have also made new regulations in connection with the washing of copper nuts from the farming industry in order to reduce copper emissions in the autumn. In the case of SFT, or the pilot project for sediment and PCBs, the difficulty of escalating even more to next year is due to the fact that we are now in a pilot situation and therefore need more experience to do the right things.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1127	I also understand that Børge Brende is spending time on the showroom list. The list of protection and other good things that are done is long, so I understand very well. The Minister mentions, among other things: Dovrefjell-Sunndalsbergella and Forolhogna, which have become new national parks. That's okay. However, both in budgetary terms last year and this year, it is clear that these national parks need positions of oversight. There's no money for that. I think it's being taken a little bit lightly on this side of it. It is said that it is good to get to parks, but I would also ask the minister to answer how he sees that there is a lack of supervision, i.e. SNO funds, to these parks. Otherwise, there's another thing I want to point out, and that's the budgetary agreement. It says, among other things. by 1 October 2003, there shall be a case concerning the sustainable use of land and mountain areas in Norway. In this context, inter alia: the issue of detailed guidelines for increased tourism use in these areas is assessed. I think that sounds very good. These include: the word ‘quality tourism’. I don't know what that means. But I hope everyone can enjoy it, not just the nodule. My question to the Council of State in this context is: I would also like to focus on local foreign resources, such as: wild and fish? It is very important that the creation of value added and industrial development where it takes place also strengthens the local nutrient base. What are the Minister's thoughts about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1140	With regard to the establishment of the Forolhogna National Park and the Dovrefjell–Sunndalsbergella, the Government has proposed that the next year should be used in excess of 1 million. I have also replied in the form of a letter. I agree – and we would like to see – that we could have used more, but it should have been an escalation associated with this. Because once a protected area is established to safeguard important interests, such as: It is also essential for local legitimacy to feel ownership of this, and to feel that you get something left for it, for example. by improving the security of the areas. I think it is a good initiative that the Central Party is following up here, with the strengthening of the SNO and the oversight of these areas of protection. As regards the increased tourist use of our protected areas, I think it is absolutely necessary to double the number of national parks as a result of the National Park Plan adopted by the Stortinget. Sustainable tourism use of natural areas does not harm these areas. On the contrary, there are great opportunities here in relation to many of our national parks, both Jotunheimen, Rondane and Trollheimen. Some national parks are determined to be subject to more stringent restrictions, such as: Burial and part of the north national parks not to be marked, etc., so that there shall be a variation in relation to them. You can only look at the possibility that lies in these valleys that exist in the Forollhogna National Park, where there has been an upsurge in renting out the seats, because people have become familiar with Forollhogna and it seems exciting to use it for tourism. Renting the seat in a national park is brilliant. This is not in conflict with the provisions on protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1147	One of the best things about being out in nature is, in my opinion – and I think I share it with many – the feeling of silence, tranquillity and peace and pure nature. It's important to fence around. I have now heard the Minister for the Environment many times – that is interesting, and it has also been today – and I also hear that he still boasts of what he has been protected. It could sometimes be in the right place to say that there have also been some others involved in the preparatory work for this, that there are some protective plans that have been adopted earlier, etc. But now leave it. We agree to protect many of the things that have been protected. But what is the point of this when the Government is cooperating with the Progress Party at the same time, with a view to achieving a greater degree of business activity in protected areas? Now I hear the Minister for the Environment here talking about opening seats etc. It's in and of itself maybe an innocent case. However, the Committee has asked the Council of State whether this could mean increased motorised movement. It has not been rejected by the Minister for the Environment, and I think that is quite alarming. This must mean that the Minister for the Environment is in the grip of the Progress Party on this matter. It is the Progress Party that has been passed for more scooters and other motorised driving. In that case, it is a rather spectacular turnaround from a government council that spends a lot of its time in talks and lectures – not only here, but also elsewhere – to boast of everything he has now contributed to and been protected. My question is: what's the point of protecting yourself when you're going to make a compromise with parties that open up more motorized traffic, and feel comfortable with this which must mean more motorized traffic in protected areas, less silence, less tranquillity and less pure nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1160	As I said, actually in the previous line, the Government is now following up the National Park Plan adopted by the Stortinget in 1992-93. It is the Storting that has laid the foundation for the protection work that the Government is now carrying out. The problem is that there have been a number of protective items that have been ready for pots for quite a long time and have not been implemented. Among other things, I mentioned: Coastal defense plan Nordland that has been lying too long. It adopted the Government a week ago. It's very important to preserve totally exceptional natural values, even in an international context. When we got our first new National Park in ten years, Forollhogna, it also says something about plans being one thing, but implementation is something else. I also said in the previous line exchange that when you expand the protection areas, you have to be open so that they can be more widely used in local value creation as well. I have always said that, and I thought that was also the view of the Workers' Party. What about seater valleys is just an illustration. The State of Oppland has now developed a plan for how to actually do this on sustainable premises, which are also the premises of this decision on which the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Progress Party have cooperated. But otherwise I have to say that I think it is quite touching that the Workers' Party is now concerned that this decision might lead to a slippage in the case of motorised outlanding. After taking over this job, I withdrew the regulations that the government in which Sylvia Brustad was sitting had promoted, about a significant liberalisation of the scooter regulations. This has not changed. Now there are eight municipalities that are trying out these regulations, and then we're going to take an evaluation of it in retrospect. On the other hand, what I have said this fall is that I am concerned about the increasing bar area driving, such as. takes place at Finnmarkswirdda. We've seen aerial photographs of this, and this is field driving that can cause irreparable damage, for example. on wet land. In fact, it is possible to increase tourism use, but on sustainable premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1171	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1174	The Council of State said here instead that if you don't have that much money, you can implement a lot of good environmental policy. That is quite right, but I think the Council of State would have had nothing against it if the Workers' Party had been able to make an impact on its alternative budget where we have about. Seventy-four million. more than the Government of Energy and Environment Policy. But also within the framework, the Labour Party, through its alternative budget, shows that a better environmental policy is possible than the Government and the Advance Party have adopted. We have $15 million. kr more for environmental research than the government parties, including earmarked funds for recruiting female researchers, and we will restore the government's cut to the polar environment centre at a time when polar research is becoming more and more important. We're strengthening local environmental protection efforts by 10 million. kr. We're boosting our outdoors effort by $12 million. kr. We are increasing our efforts to prevent predatory damage by 5 million. kr, and we are increasing the effort to combat the Salaris Salaris Salaris salmon parasite by 8 million. kr in relation to the Government's proposal. I could say a lot about all of these important areas, but there's still one area where we have an increase that I'll mention especially today, and that's the National Park Centres. This is an area where I believe the Storting has reason to have a little bad conscience. It is now more than ten years since St. reported. No 62 for 1991-92 on the ‘New Country Plan for National Parks and Other Major Protected Areas in Norway’ was dealt with and adopted here in the United Kingdom. Follow-up to this message has agreed on the establishment of at least 13 National Park Centres. And what's a National Park Centre? National parks centres have as their overall objective the dissemination of natural and cultural values, the building of competences and the good management of national parks. National park centres have a decentralised role to play in ensuring the Directorate for Nature Management’s overall objectives of preserving biodiversity and protecting and strengthening the rights of all people. National park centres thus mean a decentralisation of competences rather than a centralisation of the Ministry of the Environment and the Directorate of Nature Management. National parking centres also mean jobs and opportunities for tourism in districts. Of the national parking centres already mentioned in St. meld. No 62 for 1991-92 there are two pieces not yet established, Saltdal in Nordland and Reisa in Troms. The problem is that for too many years, appropriations have been too low. And what's in the budget goes to those who are already established, where some people are struggling with the economy. The government is now in a position to complete the protection plan adopted in 1992. Now it's also time to do something about the National Park Centres. Both the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party have an increase in the budget. The Government Parties take part in a majority note that, within the 2003 allocation, the establishment aid will be prioritised for Femundsmarka, Folgefonna, Nordland and Reisa National Park Centres. The question is, with the low allocation, whether there is enough money and what is really in the word 'establishment' support. I hope the Minister for the Environment can answer that. As you know, he has the opportunity to speak at the end of the debate. The right went to the choice of lower tax promises. Not least municipalities, schools and hospitals have been branded. Within the Ministry of the Environment, the Cartwork has noticed this. It was not until last year that the government received a total cut of 38 million. kr, a cut that actually meant cutting the map. Last year, however, there was a majority who made strong remarks in the budget position, and the Government returned to the revised national budget and corrected some of the cuts. But what did we see when this budget was presented? Well, the increase that came into revision was gone again! But not only that, in the budget, there were leadings that really meant major changes to the Cartwork, while the Government had chosen to disregard the requirement of a majority in the Committee for its own notification. That is why it is now a majority who have put forward a proposal that we should have such a message. We want it quickly, and we do not accept organisational changes, for example. the closure of the County Map Office, before the Storting has processed this message. If this means that the Cartwork needs increased funds, we expect the Government to return to the Storting in this case in the revised national budget. Politics is about choosing. For the time being, the government has opted for tax relief in front of increased investment in the environment. The government has chosen the Progress Party for environmental research, and still there is a long way between word and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1197	Our wealth is built mainly around what we as a nation are able to create from our natural resources. Oil, gas, hydropower, investment in new renewable energy sources and environmentally friendly energy use together make Norway all the prerequisites for becoming the leading energy supplier of Western Europe. We are a small country in the population, but great in relation to our natural resources. This gives us a very special and privileged starting point. We have the ability to combine the role of priority countries in energy with being a priority country in terms of the environment. This is an opportunity and a responsibility The government not only takes seriously, but to which it has an active and dynamic relationship. Examples of this include: the intensive research carried out in relation to the establishment of gas power plants with CO2 management. If we succeed here, it is not just to the delight of our own nation, but it will be a significant contribution to the global reduction of greenhouse gases. This effort is also reflected in the draft budget submitted. Another example is the government's work on the marine environment and the idea of overall management plans, where activities in the field of petroleum and fisheries can well balance side by side, and environmental considerations can be properly taken into account. In addition, the focus on oil protection preparedness and measures to protect our coastline is high on the Government agenda. The Prestige event off the coast of Spain is a strong reminder of the seriousness of these issues. We have a major challenge in extracting the value potential of the energy nation Norway. Of course, it is important that oil and gas are pumped out of the sea and generate money in the treasury. Although we're talking about oil extraction for at least 50 years and extraction of gas deposits for at least 100 years, it's important that we be able to develop both the supplier industry and the industrial opportunities the raw materials provide for value creation on land. Therefore, it is a danger signal that the attention given to the Norwegian oil and gas activities appears to have gradually changed from industrial development to management of the revenues generated by the activity. We have to use the possibilities, and we have to be active in relation to this business as a valuable object. Therefore, it is positive that the Government in the context of the State budget focuses on the framework conditions for our industry, through the tightness of the budget in order to stimulate lower interest rates, lower dollar rates, tax and tax reductions, and lower wage growth, but also through its active commitment to investment in education and research. Petroleum activities are a highly knowledge-based industry, and we know that the challenges in the more mature parts of the seas will be to be able to increase the extraction rate in existing fields and stimulate tail production. The government is concerned about this, and it also shows the objective of increasing the average recovery rate to 50 pst. for oil and 75 pst. for gas. The right therefore supports the proposal to ask the Government to consider different forms of long-term co-financing of research in this sector, including the assessment of a petroleum-oriented research fund. For each percentage we are able to increase the rate of extraction, the state's revenues increase considerably to be able to finance well-being goods. Hardly in any other area, the probability of raising large revenues relative to each research crown used will be higher. It is alarming that the Norwegian offshore shipbuilding industry seems to be losing in the fight for some types of jobs, and since the price difference between shipyards in the EU in recent times has shown itself to be significant, as the example of Aker Kværner Egersund shows, we join with the majority and want to find out what the cause of this can be. Furthermore, we are concerned that Norwegian supplier industry and Norwegian technology should grow and develop further through international growth. The draft budget provides examples in two areas where the State contributes directly to this. One is through financial contributions to INTSOK, and the other that can be mentioned is support for PETRAD. Within both of these organisations, the Government has given active support. INTSOK is precisely aimed at strengthening the long-term basis for value creation and employment in the Norwegian petroleum industry through focused international activities. This work takes place, among others: through various joint actions for member companies, such as meetings, seminars and delegation trips. Local advisors include: employed in key countries, such as Angola and Nigeria, precisely in order to enable industry to best fit the opportunities available to these countries. It is positive that the Government increased its contribution significantly in 2002 and that the level is maintained in the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1223	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1226	There is a strange situation in which we have managed to put ourselves in when it comes to accessing electricity. We've known for many years that hydropower expansion is over, and that there are only minor expansions and various modernisations of old plants that are left. What we also know for many years is that the North Sea is full of gas that could have been used for electricity production. There is now a shortage and high prices of electricity, which may come out of the positive, namely that environmentally friendly gas power plants are being built quickly. At least it's allowed to hope. I think it is positive that the Committee has clear comments on the need to invest in renewable energy and that it should focus on bioenergy, solar energy and water pumps. This is good and will become important in the long term, but in a decade’s perspective only gas power stations can provide self-sufficiency and stable prices. Now that the snow is beginning to cover most of our country, there is once again an unresolved problem, the use of snowmobiles. Let me first mention something that I took up many years ago in the environmental debate, probably three-four years ago. We may now have an opportunity to prevent these quadricycles, or whatever it is called, on which the Minister for the Environment was also involved, from spreading uncontrollably. But then something has to be done, and I ask the Council of State if there are any changes to the law for stronger regulation for the use of bar area vehicles. The second question is also addressed to the Minister for the Environment and snowmobiles. There are tens of thousands of scooter owners who want to legally drive in so-called recreational loops. I am aware that the Ministry of the Environment, which was also the minister for environmental protection, has trials in eight municipalities, and that the Stortinget gets a case when the trial is over. It's okay. We need to find solutions based on environmental assumptions. But the new regulations introduced this summer require so-called driving training. Will the Council of State recommend that the county council grant permission to such training courses so that the necessary training can be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1239	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1152]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1255	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1264	Document No 8:25 addresses the question of asking the Government to review the applicable concession price rules with a view to removing the profit-based taxes from the basis of calculation of the concession price, so that only taxes and taxes linked to production are included in the concept of self-cost. This has been a matter that has created a great commitment. Many municipalities draw part of their income from just concession power and, of course, with tight municipal budgets, these revenues are also of greater relative importance as they are excluded from the income system of the municipalities. The concession power entitlement is governed by the Energy Act and was originally intended to ensure that part of the power extracted from the development of power was made available to the general public in the municipalities where the installation was located. This was meant to be a lasting advantage for the municipalities, an advantage and compensation for the municipalities in order to divest their natural resources. The proposers have pointed out that in recent years the price of concession power has partly been higher than the market price in force. Furthermore, it is claimed that one reason for this is the new principles for the taxation of electricity production plants adopted by the Stortinget with effect from 1997. The transition to market-based power turnover led to a transition to more profitability-based taxes such as general profit taxes, land-rate taxes and natural resource taxes. General taxes on profits and rents are now included in the basis for the calculation of the concession price. It is discussed whether these new taxes can be said to relate to production itself and whether they should be included in the self-costing calculation. The paradox arises that the higher the profits in the industry, the higher the price will have to be paid for the concession power. We understand the views on what should be included in the self-cost concept. Self-sufficiency is normally seen as the cost of producing a good or service. Furthermore, we also see the unfairness of a system where the concession price is above the market price, and that this is poorly consistent with the principle that the disposal of natural resources should represent a lasting advantage for the municipalities. In the context of the 2003 State Budget, the Government has announced its wish to review the concession-based arrangements and the tax on energy. This review is important not only to simplify but also to ensure stability and predictability both for municipalities, counties, countries and not least for power companies. The government has taken an active step by the Minister of Oil and Energy to improve the situation. The problems have arisen since 1997, and it may be appropriate to mention that both the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party have had oil and energy ministers who have not done anything in relation to this bias that is pointed out in the post-1997 period. The concession-based schemes and tax rules for the power industry must take account of a wide range of considerations both in relation to municipal income and the overall framework conditions for the power industry. Adjustments in individual elements will have consequences for municipalities, the state and the companies as a whole. Therefore, there is an advantage whether the various changes can be seen in the context. Against this background, we would like to take this review as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the 2004 State Budget, with the result that profit-based taxes are taken out of the self-costing calculation for the purpose of determining the concession price. I will, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, address the proposal that has been promoted in line with this. The majority wish to implement this principle as early as 1 January 2003, despite the fact that the consequences have not been identified, neither with regard to the impact on the Stasbudget, which the Ministry of Finance has estimated to be between 70 million. SEK 130 million. kr, or as to its impact on the power companies. This kind of procedure seems irresponsible to the right. Furthermore, the Ministry has pointed out that there are doubts as to whether a change in the basis of calculation of the concession price can be carried out without a formal amendment to the law, that it will take time to put it into place, if any, and that there is also uncertainty as to whether it is possible to adopt a decision with retroactive effect. Our assessment is that there is little time to make the change without the overall assessment that the Government makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1294	Concession power is the right of the municipalities to a share of the value creation that takes place by the extension of their hydropower. The concession power shall initially be at an average cost, that is, what it costs to produce the power. Taxes are paid in industries other than the power industry by profit, after all costs have been covered. The self-cost of an item is for all other industries a concept of what the item costs before tax. This principle must also apply to the concession and power industries. This matter is also an important district issue. The Labour Party has listened to both the National Association of Energy Enterprises, the Landssaman conclusion of Vasskraftkommunar, cooperative forces and a host of rapporteurs and municipal politicians before we reach the conclusion we are today to be adopted. We've been through a process. We look at the work done, no good arguments that profit taxes are to be counted as cost in some industries, nor in the power industry. So to the matter's consideration. It is highly critical that, after the Committee has given its opinion, the Council of State makes 'new' and 'training' recordings, and that this was not clarified as part of the ministry's examination of Document No. The 8-year proposal, almost a year ago. If these questions had been clarified then neither the Basic Law § 97 nor the amendment of the law would have offered problems for Stortinget's wish to implement this as of 1 January 2003. The working party is satisfied that an overall committee appears to agree on the substance of the matter, but points out that the minority in the Committee only agrees with this principle if it is seen in the context of the overall tax proceeds for the sector. Well, I think they're being screened out in the municipality of Norway. When, in its letter to the Committee on 5 December, the Council of State raises questions about the recommendation of the Committee ‘provides for changes to the basis for the calculation of the concession power granted under concessions notified prior to the law of 10 April 1959 No 2’, it is our clear opinion that, of course, the committee's recommendation covers all the concession powers. That's what this is all about. It is clear that both the purpose of the concession power and the basic starting point of pricing have been established since the introduction of the concession power system in the original concession laws. Price of concessionary power disposed of under concessions before 1959 is set for each concession by agreement between the parties, and such agreements must be renegotiated between the parties in line with the decision of the Stortinget. On this basis, the working party cannot see the need for ‘a detailed investigation by the authorities to clarify how the change can be implemented and the effects of such a change’, as the Council of State writes to the Committee. With the history of this case, it is important that Storting should express its view of the time at which it was started. Therefore, the majority of the Committee recommends that this be put into action on 1 January 2003. We are committed to getting a clean and robust system in the future, especially as the Government is now pushing for foreign purchases in the Norwegian power sector. It is also worth noting that the right did not protest when this was introduced. There were also no changes in the laws that I know about. I was responsible for the local economy in 1996 and 1997, and I never saw any revenue in the budget. So this case smells a little bit, it doesn't smell good, especially when you look at the minority comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1317	The objective of the concession power scheme was to ensure that part of the power generated by the deployment of power was made available to general supply in the municipalities where the installations were located. The idea was also that this power should be made available at a price equivalent to self-cost. In today's regime, profit taxes are included as part of what is called self-cost, which is perceived by many as both unfair and unfair. The power industry is today the only industry in which surplus taxes are included in the self-cost concept. I'm pleased that a majority wants to clean up this obvious injustice. The government has correctly announced a review of the legislation for the purpose of simplification. It's high time, and I look forward to the announced review. However, the progress party seems that the issue of calculating the concession price is so important in principle that we want to lift this out of the announced review and deal with it already now. We are pleased that a majority in the Committee agrees with this, and that the majority supports our wish that this should apply from 1 January next year. I would like to remind you that the revenue from the concession power is too many municipalities and counties an important part of their total income. In this context, it should also be mentioned that these revenues are widely used for industrial development, and several industrial enterprises benefit from good framework conditions as a result. This case also raises the question of whether municipalities should more fully draw their income from the use of their own resources. However, I am somewhat surprised by the ministry's behaviour in this matter. At one moment you claim that you agree that it has to be cleared up in these injustices, and at the next moment, a lot is being done strangely, to say it carefully, just to prevent this from happening. In this connection, I refer you to several letters from the Council of State on the occasion of the case. In any case, I would argue for my own part that these letters have not in any way been particularly elusive, but rather largely contradictory. I therefore hope that today we will have a finish line for this matter, and I assume that the department will follow up the decision of the Storting to the point and point, so that this obvious injustice will end at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1331	For SV, this is an important district issue. It's an important matter for a lot of municipalities. We've been marked in the process when we've been doing this, and I think we've got a lot of good impressions that show that it's necessary to make decisions like the plural wants here today, not least if you look at how the large-scale majority are currently thinning the municipalities. Here, there's actually a possibility to help some of them with a better economy. So you could say that there's a lot of people who don't need it as much as others, and that's actually right. Nevertheless, it will not be wrong to go into this matter for that reason. And it's true, as has been said by several people here: a lot of municipalities use this locally, directly, to get business development going, and it's important incentives from the SV's side. So it's true that the case-speaker, Siri A. Meling from the Right, says that the Labour Party, which has seat in government, and the Center Party, which has seat in government, has not cleaned up this. That's absolutely correct, and they should have done that. But now we have a government that could be with us and clean this up, but she won't. It's something that has confused me in this matter, or frustrated me. For real, this seemed pretty simple. We're just going to fix a problem, and there's a couple of things about it. But then some people think we can't fix that problem anyway. It's illogical, seen with SV's eyes. When you have a thorough hearing, a thorough procedure and a defensive progress on this, I see no reason for us to wait for a decision, contrary to that. I must admit, like the representative of Klungland from the Labour Party, that the proceedings to which the Committee on Energy and the Environment and the Stortinget have been subjected by the Department have been frustrating. We received a letter of reply, dated 11 February 2002, which did not complicate this in any particular way. But when it became a big crowd, things got very complicated. Then there came one letter after another from the department that said that this could not be done, and this could not be done; this was in conflict with Section 97 of the Constitution – «probably» it was stated in a letter. Another letter stated that there was probably no conflict with § 97. So here, there was some confusion from the department's side, too. That is why the bulk of the population today is on the point of view we have had all the way. In spite of the fact that the Committee has postponed the proceedings three times because of letters from the Ministry, we have made it clear that this will take place from 1 January 2003, and that it is not necessary to complicate the matter more than what has already been done by the Department. So the scheme applies from 1 January 2003. There are a few of them about, and then it's only up to the Council of State to make sure that the majority decision that the Stortinget is making today is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1340	Document No 8:25 for 2001-2002 a fundamental question of surplus taxes is to be considered as part of the costs of electricity production. That's not the case, just as little in the power industry as in other industries. The power industry is the only industry in which surplus taxes are included in the seafood concept. It is therefore quite correct and important that the bulk of the population today is changing the principle of incorrect calculation that has been used. So now we finally get the error that was made in 1996, when the profit-based taxes were included in the basis for calculating the concession price. The matter is really over-ripe, and an overall committee has adhered to the principle that surplus taxes are not part of the cost of producing electricity. Now it's mentioned here from speakers that it could have been corrected before, because both the Central Party and the Workers' Party have had the opportunity to do so. It could certainly have been done, but at least there's no reason to extend it now, when everyone agrees. So we have to get this done. It is also a very important matter for the municipalities. They may draw income from the exploitation of their own natural resources. For when the municipalities make hydropower resources available, they shall have compensation for it. Document No The 8 proposal has been promoted by the Centre Party, and I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV have joined us to set a date for the change of legislation. It is not acceptable to push the matter forward in time, as the government parties have wanted. From 1996 until now, the municipalities and county councils concerned have been asking for the case all the time, and since 1997, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has regularly announced that the case should be promoted. It is also very important district policy. 153 municipalities and 14 counties have income from the concession power scheme, and that is an important part of the total income. So there's about a quarter of all the municipalities in the country and almost every county municipality that can enjoy it today. I'm not going to go too far on the urban economy debate – it probably has its place later today – but it's raised beyond doubt that this will secure the economy of many municipalities. There has been quite a lot of phone call from rapporteurs who have been concerned about how this would end. It varies how much concession power the individual municipalities and county councils have, and the increased income will vary from a few ten thousand dollars to several million. In any case, this money comes very well into slumped municipal budgets. The change that is being made now leads to a total increase in concession revenue of at least 100 million. kr per. years, maybe up to 400-500 million. kr. In these times, with high prices of electricity, we've seen that several newspapers are trying to make it look like the power municipalities are cutting off the high electricity prices. To that it is said that the concession power represents approx. 7 pst. of the production, and it might be good to specify that it is the owners of the hydropower, the power companies, that do well in the daytime. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is positive that a unanimous increase is in line with the proposal of the Central Party that the surplus-based taxes should be removed from the sea-cost calculation. It's very bad that the tiny detail of time should destroy for the broad consensus that actually prevails. The case shall be carried out. It's a majority for that. And it's going to happen in time: 1 January 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1361	Document No 8:25 on the concession price takes into account a small part of the electricity tax system underpinned by the power industry. It is the same tax system that the Government has said it will review and come back to the Storing in 2003. There are good reasons, in the opinion of the Left, to look at this. But this tax system is an example of such a complicated system that it understands it or is fully able to explain its consequences. It is therefore alarming to draw out a small part of the tax bill, because the consequences are unclear. The current market situation makes it even more serious if the Storting pre-empted the health assessment that will be presented to the Stortinget next year. The left is concerned about the possible consequences of premature intervention in a complex and complex tax system and the possible consequences for consumers. Only the basic interest tax, which is part of the tax on Norwegian power plants, is designed so that with the system price today, on 12 December, of 66.7 øre per. kWh, everything produced today will be charged at 18 cents per cent. kWh only in this tax. Other taxes are added. The rent tax is known as 27 pst. the spot price multiplied by the force produced. The majority of Norwegian power generation is sold on fixed contracts, at prices that have been lower than what the rent tax alone seems to burden production during this winter. The left is concerned about the consequences this may have for interest in concluding long-term power supply contracts. If long-term contracts are not possible, individual households themselves must take the risk of fluctuations in the electricity price. It is not desirable. Related to today's theme, today's producers pay this winter more than twice as much tax as the value of the concession price. The left is occupied by stable and robust framework conditions. Complicated and detailed laws and regulations don't do that, because it's all going to be unclear, and a losing focus on overseeing problem settings, such as having an efficient power system, high security of supply and quality. A reduction in the concession price, as this proposal implies, will increase the costs of the same companies that would have upgraded existing water power plants. Then efficiency could be increased, and Norway would get more electricity out of the same amount of water. Norway has been involved with Sweden for 30 years to make effective use of the power system in both countries. Without the Nordic market, we would need significantly greater investment in Norway. These are investments that until now would only be profitable for dry years, i.e. a cost-effective and low socio-economic solution. The important thing now must therefore be to identify the right projects that can provide environmentally friendly energy in quantities that rebalance a Nordic market. However, lack of coordination among Nordic system operators leads to a non-construction of profitable links between countries. The current focus on the power situation has led to a stagnant consumption and a slight decrease. In other words, increasing prices is an incentive we need to think about the way we use energy. Modern technology, such as two-way communication and hourly metering, opens up simpler regulation and control from each individual household. Document No The 8 proposal on the concession power price has a major impact on Norwegian owner municipalities. It's taken from some and given to others, and not just from rich to poor municipalities, in a way that should provide a proper explanation and an impact assessment. It is regrettable that the majority do not want to do so and even give a retrospective effect. The ability of our elected representatives to plan in the municipalities that become the framework is low.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1380	Document No 8:25 is a document that has been very remarkable in the many small and large municipalities that are host to power plants. Today, the rules are such that the more a power company feels, the higher the excess tax on the company. Both the production costs and the tax are included in the calculation basis for the price of the concession power, and municipalities have to pay more for the concession power they buy. Now, when the tax of excess is deducted from the basis of calculation, it will increase revenue from the sale of concession power. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a collective committee is in favour of the reality of the matter. Since most power municipalities are located in the districts, this is good district policy. Several parties in different governments have worked to change the legislation – no one has done anything about it so far. One might wonder the reason for this, but I choose to leave this question now. The Committee has shared the understanding of the time of the launch. The minority, which consists of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, is concerned that the system will enter into force as soon as it is advised, but will have a clean procedure. We see in this context a letter from the Law Department dated 27. Nov., where there is doubt that this change can be implemented without a formal legislative amendment. It seems that the majority is most concerned that the scheme will come into force from 1 January 2003. The Christian People's Party and the Right would initially have had a broader review where the proposed change in the basis of calculation of the concession price should be seen in conjunction with other signaled changes both in the concession-based schemes and in the tax rules for power companies, where the considerations underlying Document No. The 8:25 proposal was incorporated. State Council Einar Steensnæs, in a letter to the Presidentship of Stortinget, has stated that the Ministry has started work on the necessary changes and will send the matter out to the audience. I see the importance of this matter for the many local authorities, including the local authorities. in West Telemark, where I come from, and wish to welcome the change. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to rapid and thorough treatment, so that the scheme can be made effective as soon as advice is given in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1397	The concessional system has its historical background in early hydroelectric expansion and was introduced in 1909. The objective was initially to ensure that part of the power generated by the deployment of power was made available to general government in the municipalities where the plant was located. The determination of the concession price follows two historical regimes, before and after 1959. The price calculation and the collection of material for this is complicated for several reasons. The majority of the Committee asks the Government to amend the legislation so that profit taxes are not included in the basis for the calculation of the concession price and that the amendment should apply from 1 January 2003. I agree that the time is now ripe to make adjustments to the concession power system, in order to achieve simplification and greater predictability for both power municipalities and power producers. I have not heard of anyone who has disagreed in the very purpose of the proposal, which is good. That's the process of disagreement. Important considerations in this regard are that the scheme should be a lasting advantage to the host municipalities, while not being subject to concessional power delivery losses by the concessionaires. I want to make sure that the changes to the price calculation basis that the Storting is now adopting are implemented as quickly as possible. In this context, it has been necessary for me to ask for clarification of some formulations in the committee setting. I wrote this to the Presidency on 5 December. I have hopes, and it is good that today's negotiations will clarify which taxes are to be collected from the basis of calculation, so that the change can be made by regulation. This means that the excess taxes are no longer included in the calculation basis and that the interest rate used to calculate the cost-of-capital element of the concession price is changed so that the concessionaires do not suffer, on average, losses in the supply of concession power. In the case of concessions notified under the amended Law of 1959, the change in the basis of calculation may be made by regulation. For concessions notified before the 1959 amendment, the Ministry is now investigating how the change in the basis of calculation can be implemented. In this context, I must point out that the starting point of such concessions is that the concessionaires and the municipalities agree to the concession power price. Where the parties do not reach an agreement, the question may be brought to the attention of the NVE. The decision of the NVE may be appealed to the Department. When the issue of prices is first brought to the discretion of the concession authorities, practice may be changed with regard to the taxes included in the basis of calculation of the concession price. A problem arises in relation to current agreements between concessionaires and municipalities. A number of agreements of different content and duration have been concluded. For short contracts, the new pricing basis will be used for new contracts. For long-term contracts, intervention by the Ministry is difficult for legal reasons. The Ministry shall, however, request the parties to renegotiate their agreements in order to align them with the Storting decision. Disputes about this issue must then be resolved in the usual way. As I have explained, the changes in size are now to be adopted, implemented in regulations. Good administrative practice requires that the change be submitted to the interested parties for their opinion. It will not be possible, in accordance with the opinion of the Legal Service of the Ministry of Justice, to take the necessary decisions with effect from 1 January 2003. Here both Stortinget and I, as the responsible state council, have to comply with Norwegian law. An amendment to the rules on the calculation of the concession price to the disadvantage of power producers may not be applied with effect from remuneration earned prior to the adoption of the amendment. There is therefore a need to confirm that a decision taken in line with the Committee's recommendation must be understood as a request for a change of rules as soon as possible without considering 1 January 2003 as an absolute time of action. I am confident that this conversion will be carried out as soon as possible on the basis of a proper procedure. The aim is that a draft regulation should be sent to the hearing immediately so that the amendment will take effect for the greater part of 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1419	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1422	This is a very important case for municipalities, for business and for concessional power funds that are used for the development of new business. The Council of State has argued against the introduction on 1 January 2003 because the law will then have retroactive effect. This is just one of the arguments used to prevent the decision to be taken today. I wonder how this was treated in 1997. Was there then a change in the law that led to profit taxes being included in the concession price, or was it made in other ways? It is very interesting to get an answer, because I assume that in the case of disadvantage, the law is the same for everyone, and then it must also apply in relation to the disadvantage of municipalities that were included in what the council now argues against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1431	I need to say that I am not arguing against the proposal. In fact, I agree with the intention behind the proposal – I will repeat it – that has been since I was sent this. In a letter to the Committee on 11 February, I outlined how this could be done through a proper procedure. What I've made the Stortinget aware of is that I have to follow Norwegian law and Stortingen's own decisions on how to manage well. With regard to previous schemes, I would like to point out that the scheme before 1997 through long-term practice, and also decisions in the Supreme Court, had included taxes in the concession price. Taxes on wealth, income and property. The concession fee was also included in this price. The new tax rules were implemented after a wide-ranging consultation, and by decision – in the context of a separate stockpiling proposal – in the Stortinget. In other words, one has had a clean, predictable and good process in line with the administrative procedures on which both the Storting and the Government are obliged.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1438	In one of its many letters, this time dated 5 September, the Council of State refers to the fact that it will not be possible to take the necessary decisions with effect from 1 January 2003. He also refers to the Basic Law § 97, which is likely to prevent this, as such any delay would cause the change to be made retrospectively. According to the Council of State, suspension by the Ministry shall be due to completion of the change and to proceed to the hearing. It is then this – i.e. the department’s treatment – that may lead to delays that may be contrary to the law. Is the Council not aware that the Storting has spent a long time in this matter — conducting extensive consultations with all concerned as well as deferred discharges several times? In view of this, I assume that the decision of the Storting will be followed without delay, so that the change will apply with effect from 1 January 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1448	I would like to point out that in my letter to the Committee, when the proposal came to an opinion, I made a proposal where this could be dealt with in a neat, good manner – transparently, in line with good administrative practice. Document No The 8-proposal involved a procedure in which the Stortinget was invited to take a decision on the position. Only later did the proposal appear in the Committee that the date of entry into force should be 1 January 2003. Where the representative, Mr Vaksdal, refers to the wording ‘believable’, the representative should not put it into question that the ministry is in any way in doubt as to the legal, formal, procedural reality of the case. It is a common wording used by the Legal Service and the Attorney-General for such legal matters, with respect for the fact that it is the courts that will ultimately have a case if there is a dispute. I am aware that this has taken a long time. I regret it if the various letters which have been sent to the Committee on my behalf for the best purpose, namely to satisfy the Committee's wish for clarification, are not perceived as such, but, as has been said, as an attempt to train the matter. It has not been my intention. I have tried to answer exactly all the questions as the issues arose. The proposal to take effect as of 1 January 2003 was answered in my last letter, 5 December, where I have made the Stortinget and the Committee aware of the legal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1457	Yes, I'm not surprised that the Council of State at least understands the irritation of the committee, when one sees how one gets a letter on a letter that forces one over and over again to postpone the matter. So even when you finally get through and say that the committee is now taking its position, we're going to have to do this, so there's probably a letter that explains that we can't do this. So there's no doubt that when you receive new messages with new information, you feel that you are being stopped at work. Because there is a variation in the information we get from the Law Department. One letter states that there is no problem in relation to Grundlova § 97, while the next explains that this is likely to prevent a change in the rules for concession power – this is in relation to the retroactive force. But we're not talking about retroactive force here. We adopted today something that will apply from 1 January 2003. There is no retrospective effect on what will be agreed today. It applies from 1 January 2003 to the adoption of the majority of Stortinget today. So that's now the time aspect that's become the big problem compared to before, it also surprises me. The intention of the bulk of the population is very clear. We're going to have this change. It shall apply from 1 January 2003. There is no need for any serious clarification on this. What is necessary is to ensure that this takes effect at the time that the majority of the population has decided, and that the Council of State is following it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1469	The representative Langeland mixes letters that answer different questions. One question was the possibility of entering into and changing already concluded concessions. I've answered that. The second question was whether it is possible to give retroactive effect to this Decision, in accordance with normal rules of procedure, because one must have the necessary time to implement the decision in consultation with interested parties. I've also answered that question. So I would say, as the Council of State and as a member of the Government, I have respect for the fact that it is the Storting that last but not least takes the final decisions. It is also the responsibility of Stortingen to adopt decisions in line with Stortingen's own rules and with Stortingen's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1476	I have no doubt that the Council of State considers this to be a correct decision. That's when there's a disagreement, and that's why we've got all these letters overtime. Governments also focus on the process. – Especially because it’s an advantage for someone and unfavorable for others, this process is so very important. It has to take a long time, and it has to go straight ahead. I don't have that long experience from this house, but I think of a matter we dealt with in ours. It was the Gas Markets Directive. Then there were a lot of unresolved questions. Different things were said about how much Norway could lose per year. years, but up to NOK 10 billion was actually talking about. Then the Council of State pressed for this to be done quickly. I cannot at my best understand that the issue of the price of concession power, which is therefore today's topic, is close to the issue of the Gas Market Directive in terms of complex contexts. My question will then be: what makes a matter of a big deal come together, can get so many letters and so many ‘distractions’, while a big deal gets pussy through the system of 48 hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1485	These two issues may appear different in importance, and the view of the matter of urgency will probably vary from party to party and perhaps also from representative to representative. What these two issues should have in common is that the proceedings should be governed by Norwegian law, it should be predictable, and it should be good – after what we call good administration. It alerted the Government during the process of the Gas Market Directive. I also hope that the Storting will take care of the concession power issue in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1490	The council said he's for the change that's coming now, and the minority has also claimed it. Yes, it may be that they are in favour of the principle, but they are against the fact that these municipalities and businesses will receive the financial contribution that this entails, as they will combine it with a large amount of tax – and thus not have revenue on it when it comes into force. Then I want to give some history lessons to the Council of State. I am essentially surprised that he does not remember, or am aware that in connection with the law that came in 1996, there was a great deal of work here in Stortinget, and the amendment of the law that was made, led to, I do not know if I can say a lot of trouble, but at least many protests. In that amendment and the consultation rounds, I cannot recall that this with profits taxes was included. So it was a completely new tax regime adopted in 1996 for the power sector, while the OED introduced it in 1997. Then came the protests from the municipalities and from the LVK. After that, it has been worked out, and it must be that the law should be the same for everyone. So the majority believe that this does not have retroactive effect because we are taking decisions today that will apply from 1 January 2003, and we assume, of course, that the Council of State is doing what he can to ensure that it is implemented from that date.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1499	I sat in the finance committee when this matter was dealt with in 1996, and I remember very well what process we had with it. I just want to refer to the recommendation of the representative on page 17 of the letter to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 11 February, where the procedure around that process is detailed. It is basically a pity that an important reform for municipalities ends up with a debate on formalities and on following good administrative practices and Norwegian law. It should be unnecessary, and I feel that when I, the Council of State, have said how I evaluate this, it will be up to the Storting to make decisions. But I'm kind of having a hard time understanding why the majority of the population insist on not listening to the advice I've received from the most competent team, the Justice Department Law Department, on how this is formal. And if the population doesn't want to listen to it, the Storting will decide what they want. I can't do anything about it. I don't have a voting button on my desk, so this is Storting's responsibility. But I have now given such a strong message that it should last. Finally, I would like to say that the organisation to which the Committee has listened throughout this matter, which has a bearing on the interests of the municipalities of hydropower, namely LVK, has made it clear by letter to the Committee that it is necessary to be able to comply with the ministry's assessment in this matter. I record that what LVK thinks is acceptable, does not find the large number acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1509	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1514	A few years ago, the Workers' Party and the Right Party asked the then government to work for framework conditions for power producers that are more similar to those in northern Europe. That was a reasonable comment, as we have several strange rules that lead to higher taxation for Norwegian power producers than for our competitors. But what's going on? Indeed, the Labour Party contributes to the deterioration of the conditions of competition by ensuring that the surplus tax is not included in the basis of calculation of the concession price as from 1 January 2003. And this is now done — quickly and quickly, without proper proceedings, consultation and assessment — probably by an illegal decision, knowing that the Government has announced that it will return to the Stortingen with a comprehensive review and simplification of the tax rules and concession-based schemes for the power industry, including the municipal distribution of the property tax base during 2003. A unanimous finance committee was pleased with that – but it was two weeks ago. It is a pity that the different arrangements cannot be seen in conjunction with each other, so that we avoid unintended and unfortunate changes in the framework conditions of the power industry and the power-communities. It'll be easy, when you suddenly get hasty and you're going to change something that's been going on for many, many years. The income tax has been included in the self-cost principle at least since the 1950s, when it was calculated on a percentage basis. In 1997, a change was made when the income tax on electricity producers was normalised and they were to pay income taxes depending on the profits. As a result, the profits, the tax and the self-cost price have varied more, but after what I have seen, the power municipalities have received good revenues from the concessional power even in these years, despite low prices for a few years. So why this haste? Why is it so important in principle, without prior investigation, to ensure that the richest municipalities in the country become even richer – perhaps at the expense of electricity customers, power producers and their owners, state and usually some poorer municipalities? This is a slightly inverted Robin Hood policy that I don't quite understand. And I wonder what these rich power municipalities are doing, which gets this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1527	I'm sorry that I have to take the word again, but this post can't be left undisputed. There are 154 municipalities in Norway that have added hydropower – of which 121 are the smallest income municipalities. There are nine rich power municipalities that have little population and thus will get very little out of this that goes on the concessional power price. But it is the principle that I respond most to – that one says that the higher the profits the power companies get, the more money they make. Because if they don't have any profits, there's no problem with the concession price. But the higher the profits they get, the more the municipality will pay at the concession power price. I do not understand with my best will that it can be defended either by power producers or by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1534	I have listened with great interest to the debate on this matter, and I had initially not intended to speak. But I just have to say that I was a little provoked by the Right post now at the end. There are two-three things that it is worth bringing, as the Workers' Party's representative was here. It concerns the rich power municipalities, which were mentioned. There are a few rich power municipalities, but they're very few, and it's important that one gets specified. Most of the municipalities are among the Norwegian average municipalities, and actually the minimum income municipalities. Then it was also claimed that the municipalities have had large revenues from this for many years. The reality is that in the last half of the 1990s, two to three years, there were many municipalities that actually lost money and had problems selling their concession power. That was the reality. I will not take part in the debate on training etc., but it was among other things. said here that this was to secure the economy of the power stations. If only it had been so well. But it's probably to improve it. I guess that's what we're talking about. Finally. There shall be a re-examination of the load taxation in order to ensure predictability. There are many people who feel that there has been an incredible amount of review of the power tax and concession law in recent years, so it might have been equally predictable that it had now been settled for a while. But the review is signaled, and we're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1547	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the President's view, it will be difficult to reach agreement on this issue before we have had a more detailed discussion on the extreme consequences of the Storting decision. The President would like to see a break in contact with the President so that the decision can be shaped in such a way that there is no misunderstanding. This is the President's opinion. The President shall not interfere in the political content, but it will be difficult for the Storting to instruct a Council of State to do something that a Council of State considers illegal. On the other hand, the President understands the impatience that arises when a person studies the proposal made by two government parties. However, the President believes that it is absolutely possible to fulfil the wishes of the majority of the majority of the Storting, by formulating the proposal in such a way that it becomes acceptable. If we take a meeting at that, we'll make sure it's taken up to voting after the break.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1554	There is one problem with the proposal from the President. It is that, with the Rules of Procedure that we adopted, we should vote on the first three issues now. In that case one must amend that decision. But we're open to discuss the matter with the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1564	The Rules of Procedure shall be settled when we raise the matter to the vote. Just the hall, and the committee, are willing to participate, we're going to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1580	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. This does not necessarily mean that all parties must have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1589	The UK reprocessing plant Sellafield is the largest source of radioactive contamination along the coast of Norway and the Arctic Seas. For almost 50 years, the United Kingdom has polluted our coasts with radioactivity. There is a broad technical and political consensus that Norway should stop this pollution. Minister for the Environment Børge Brende offensively went against the radioactive emissions when he joined. On a full page in Dagbladet, October 23, 2001, he announced war on emissions. And in addition to notifying of a possible case against these emissions, the Council of State responded that the government in the United Kingdom had given green light to the controversial MOX factory in Sellafield. He therefore announced support for the Irish trial. Not enough of that – the new government council would also clean up at home. He would assess whether it was in line with Norway's role to conduct experiments on Sellafield-produced MOX fuel in the Halden reactor. Unfortunately, the measures taken by the Council of State Fire would have taken place, one by one. Norwegian support for the Irish lawsuit has become increasingly vague. The MOX plant in Sellafield was launched without formal protests from Norway, and in March 2002 a new report was submitted to the Council of State Børge Burnde showing that the MOX experiments in the Halden reactor could indirectly form the basis for new and possibly increased radioactive emissions from Sellafield. However, the Minister for the Environment did not want to do anything in this case either. The Norwegian MOX experiments in the Halden reactor have continued. The controversial emissions of technetium-99 are as high as before. The British Environment Minister, Margaret Beckett, said yesterday that the emissions of technetium-99 will continue until 2006. At the same time, she said that within four months, British radiation protection authorities will produce a report examining the potential for storing the technetium-99 waste on land. If the report is positive, a ban on emissions of this substance will be imposed. That's apparently good news. But it's important to be aware that this is enough of the extraction tactics of the British authorities. They have expressed for over a year that they will look at different options to reduce emissions without doing so. In order to demonstrate the willingness to solve this problem, UK authorities should stop emissions while investigating land-based storage. With the picture drawn here, it seems obvious that Norway should achieve results in its efforts to combat emissions, action must be taken against the British while the Government must clean up its domestic roads. SV supports the Government's early efforts to take legal action against the British, but it is clear that they have cleared up the sand. When the British do not take into account the marine environment and transboundary pollution, this is certainly a matter for the Government to consider again. I therefore encourage the Government to immediately contact Tony Blair and demand an immediate halt to all new emissions from Sellafield. If the UK Government has not completed its examination of the case, a few will have to stop temporarily until the correct clean-up technology has been achieved. But in order to have credibility in such a case, Norway has to close all nuclear cooperation with the British as soon as possible. The owners of the Sellafield plant are currently conducting their own experiments and development of the so-called Mixed Oxide Fuel in the Norwegian Halden reactor. If the Government – and the Prime Minister – is to reconquer momentum in the matter and is serious in its criticism of the British, one cannot carry out research policy cooperation on the development of the same nuclear fuel produced in Sellafield. This helps to legitimize new emissions, and it is to stab our support players in the Irish government in their ongoing legal dispute with the British over the MOX plant in Sellafield. Due to the government's lack of action in this matter, SV will promote a proposal to immediately stop all experimentation and testing of MOX in the Halden reactor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1615	Today we are discussing a Document No. 8-proposals by Karl-Anton Swensen of the Coastal Party. We're not discussing the Halden reactor. Leave the few alone. It's about today, and what's important in case no. 3, is that Sellafield – former Windscale, who was such a bad name that they had to change their name to Sellafield – releases technetium-99 into the sea. All the current in the sea goes northwards and along the Norwegian coast. We get technetium-99 in crabs and shellfish. It has widened northwards to Bjørn Island, and it notices all the way up to Svalbard. It takes 219 years to halve the value of technetium-99. It is so toxic that it cannot be stored in Sellafield. They have it in mind. And the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Environment have said that they should grant new emission permits. While our Environment Minister was in Bergen and met the British Environment Minister, the cranes in Sellafield were open! They released technetium-99 – into the sea, in the Irish Sea. Ireland has gone to the Human Rights Court and demanded a halt to the combustion at the MOX plant in Sellafield. Norway has not been able to join it. In the last period, I was up on this pulpit and asked the Prime Minister if he could support this. He wouldn't. I've been to Sellafield. I've seen the misery. I've seen that they let it into the sea from thoughts that they've stored it on. We've also experienced in Sellafield that they're extracting nuclear waste that they're sending back to Japan. What they learned in Sellafield was so bad that they got it back. Then I was there. The question that we are going to discuss today, and that I see the Storting adopting, is whether private organisations, which are the organisations that have shown the greatest activity in Sellafield, will continue to take it on their own coat and from their own money book. There is broad consensus, cross-political agreement, that this should be a responsibility for all political parties, not just for us in the Coastal Party. Then it should also be a social responsibility to decide that money should be allocated to, for example. private organisations. It's a job that can't be won by a single party. That job cannot be won by one government, but there must be an overall parliamentary basis for this fight to be won. We cannot accept that a Chernobyl – it was all so afraid of – in England will be allowed to discharge nuclear waste into the sea, so that in a few years, a few years, we will get it up to our coast. We can't accept that. We can't decide in this room, we can't in Stortinget, that this should be a responsibility that should rest on the private sphere of organization, it is the Lofoten against Sellafield – or call it one, call it the other. It should be a global political environment – it must be a primary task for our Environment Minister and our Prime Minister to go in to end this misery. If this was so harmless, you could rather dig down technetium-99. It could be buried in Sellafield! You can't let it out into the ocean, so that we'll have it served on our table afterwards. How long are we going to continue exporting fish to the East that is contaminated in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1632	I share the concerns of the previous representatives about the emissions from Sellafield, but I disagree with the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who is pulling in the Halden reactor. The completion of MOX research will not serve the international safety work done in the Halden project. The closure of MOX research will also weaken international control of those countries that will continue to use MOX in their reprocessing facilities. Non-commercial nuclear safety research will generally be weakened as a result of a significant restriction in research on a product considered dangerous in the anti-nuclear environment. A closure will also weaken the Norwegian research environment in general. It can be claimed that the current radiation protection principle is not in line with modern research. It has created a widespread fear of radioactivity that almost paralyzes all uses where radiation occurs. And it is a paradox when a number of environmental organisations and politicians will shut down nuclear power plants in favour of far more environmentally destructive energy sources. In any case, it is unwise to break a cooperation relationship with the Halden reactor, where there are 20 countries participating and where there are members from supervisory authorities, research institutions, equipment suppliers and power companies. It also provides opportunities for dialogue and interaction on controversial issues. What will be the consequence of the completion of IFE's research? It will have no impact on the continued operation or closure of Sellafield or on installations of this type. And at the closure of reprocessing facilities around the world, there will still be large amounts of separate plutonium planned to be used as MOX. Significant stocks of weapons plutonium from dismantled nuclear weapons will still be there. This will be a safety policy risk of the highest degree and will weaken international control of what is happening in this area. Therefore, the use and conversion of MOX will continue regardless of whether this is discontinued at the Halden reactor. And the United States and Russia will continue to have control over nuclear disarmament due to non-proliferation and energy use. The United States has decided that 34 tonnes of weapon plutonium should be used as MOX in nuclear power plants. MOX technology is currently the only technology demonstrated to reduce the amount of plutonium. The proliferation of nuclear material for weapon purposes is unaffected by Halden project MOX research. Therefore, nuclear exploiters will be very interested in the follow-up of this type of research by some non-commercial countries. If we wind up research, we'll reduce the safety of commercial nuclear power stations. We also weaken Norway's ability to influence important environmental issues, because we have this type of research in Halden. So it'll be a counterproductive deal to eliminate the research at the Halden reactor. It clearly contributes to an important safety work around nuclear power stations worldwide. It is good environmental policy to have this kind of research. Knowledge is not an enemy. Knowledge in this context is important for Norway. As an environmental nation and an international promoter of better ecological balance in the world, this type of research will also make a good contribution to environmental cooperation worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1643	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. The President will propose that we continue until this matter is settled, provided that it does not go away. Steinar Bastesen has asked for the floor to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1650	I forgot to record Document No. The 8-proposal, which was promoted by Karl Anton Swensen. I do that so that it can be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1655	The representative has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1658	There were a couple of issues raised by the representative Vaggen Malvik that I would just like to comment briefly on. Yesterday the British government decided to send back a decision from the Environmental Agency, the UK Environment Agency, which gave green light last autumn to continue the release of the radioactive substance technetium-99 until 2006. This was sent back to the UK environmental authorities, stating that it is now necessary to determine whether a moratorium can be introduced during the spring, i.e. a temporary ban on emissions of technetium-99. This is in many ways a positive step, and during the spring we'll know if it's going to end on the technetium-99 emissions from the United Kingdom. I had hoped that this positive side had been highlighted, but we can now celebrate anything, because we don't know until we get the answer to spring. But we're still going to put pressure on the British authorities to get them to stop these emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12.ana.ud2055e1667	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We end this morning's meeting now and will start this afternoon's meeting, at noon. 18, with the vote in case No. 1 to 3. [[See page 1171]]
