ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-02.ana.ud2479e171	In accordance with the Constitution, the King will give this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. Terrorism against the United States on 11 September last year represented a time difference in international policy. International terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are today the greatest threat to international peace and security. The fight against international terrorism has been continued with a wide range of instruments, including political, economic, legal and military measures. Norway has actively followed up the historical Article 5 Decision in NATO by participating in the Renewing Freedom operation. In addition, we have shared the multi-national ISAF force in the United Nations. At the same time, we have continued our aid to Afghanistan, which consists of both humanitarian and other aid. Our chairmanship of the donor country group for Afghanistan – ASG – has given us a central role in the humanitarian efforts of the international community in the country. The government has given development cooperation a high priority. In 2002, 50 years have elapsed since the first time that the Storing has given rise to funds for development aid. This year's aid budget is 0.92 pst. of the gross national income expected for 2002. Realising the United Nations’ Millennium Goals, including: halving poverty by 2015 is also a key challenge for Norwegian development policy. This year, the government has presented an action plan for the international fight against poverty. The government has continued a strong response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. From 1 July this year, the least developed countries received full tariff and quota freedom for imports into Norway. The government has focused on pursuing an active and realistic European policy, with the aim of making full use of the EEA Agreement and our other links to the EU. For the first time in our history, the government sent out a message about the status of EEA co-operation from now on every year. In May Norway ratified as one of the first industrialised countries the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse gas emissions. Norway took part in a negotiated settlement at the last meeting of the parties and worked towards a discharge of the obligations. Norway has our proponents for ratification of agreements by other industrialized countries. In May, the government presented a revised budget for 2002 which was within the framework of the budget policy action. The budget was kept within the limits even after the management in Stortinget. The interest rate charged to Noregs Bank, Voliorenta, is per year. September 1, 2002 at 7 p.m. That's the same thing as last year at the same time. The krone price has increased by 8.6 pst. to date in the year measured according to the competitive price index. The real growth in the income of the municipal sector in 2002 was estimated at just under 1 pst in the revised national budget in 2002, or around 1 3⁄4 billion kroner. Following the presentation of the revised national budget, the pay gap for those added to the local government has been closed. The pay gap points to a higher cost in the local government sector than that envisaged. On the other hand, higher pay increases tax revenue for municipalities and county councils. The labour market has been slightly weakened in the last year. However, there is a shortage of labour in some industries and occupations. At the end of August, the recorded seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was 3.2 pst. Participation in employment in Norway is among the highest in the world. Last year was 73.5 pst. of all the Northmen between 16 and 74 years of age, either at work or looking for work. The women were probably 47 pst last year. by all employees. In April, the government presented a big message on social security. In addition to measures to make individual sectors less vulnerable, the coordination and supervisory role of the Ministry of Justice and Police in the area of security and preparedness is further developed and strengthened. In 2002, the defence continued to carry out a very extensive process of conversion. The size handled in our government's proposal on measures to ensure a stable framework as part of the ongoing transition and modernisation of defence. In April, the Government issued a statement on regional and regional policy. The aim is to ensure the establishment, value creation and viability of communities throughout the country. The government has set up an offensive policy to localise government tasks outside the capital. In March, the government issued a major communication on the marine environment, which sets out a new and more effective policy for coastal security and preparedness, environmental pollution, sediment pollution and zero emissions from oil and gas activities. An agricultural agreement has been negotiated between the State and the Norwegian Confederation of Agriculture to contribute to a clear modernisation of Norwegian agriculture. The government submitted a proposition based on the agreements, which was joined by Stortinget. The size has managed the Storing message ‘A smaller and better state ownership’. The communication addressed general questions about the state ownership of Norwegian businesses and measures to strengthen private ownership. A key element of the message was further consideration of issues related to the objective of better organisation and management of state ownership. The responsibility for the specialist services was transferred to the State on 1 January 2002 and the hospital reform was implemented. Five regional health professionals are active in user selection in all regions. The hospital reform has all resulted in shorter waiting time for treatment. The size has managed the paper on the evaluation of the law on the medical use of biotechnology with the support of the main points presented by the Government. The government has also presented an odelstningsproposition with proposals for the law on biobanks. The legislative proposal deals with the collection, storage and use of human biological material. The government has actively supported the commitment of the parties to the business community and the state to a more inclusive working life to reduce sick leave, provide work to more disabled people and increase their retirement age. The agreement has been followed up in the budget and with changes in laws, both in the case of sickness benefits and disability pensions. The action plan for the care of the elderly has given 12,000 new annual works in the care sector. This has been a significant increase in the number of hospitalized and day - long care homes. The government has taken action to improve the situation of people with disabilities. Amounts owed to be recovered, including the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. increase child support for age and disability pensioners who have child care responsibilities, normisation of social assistance rates and measures for the homeless. In 2001, new kindergartens were established for 2,800 children. Since July 2002, incentives for the creation of new kindergartens have been introduced, and since August, the state contribution to operations has been increased to contribute to increased development and reduced parental benefit. The government has taken action to ensure the highest possible quality of primary education for the most likely pupils and a more open school. There should also be more choice for school owners, school leaders, teachers and elephants. According to the government’s submission, the Stortinget adopted a binding cost framework for new opera house in Bjørvika in spring 2002. The decision to grant start-up permits was taken by Stortinget in June. The state has entered into a partnership with the Municipality of Oslo and the landowners on a forced development of the area. Norway has taken an active part in adapting NATO to the changing security policy situation. On the Norwegian side, we have stressed that NATO must be best equipped to face threats from international terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction. The government has stressed the need to further develop and strengthen transatlantic relations and has worked to preserve the strong European-US community of interests. The government has also worked for a more balanced distribution of duties and tasks between the United States and Europe. We have therefore actively supported EU security and defence cooperation. That is the background for our willingness to provide forces in connection with the EU taking over the UN police operation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Norway has also actively worked to strengthen allied cooperation with Russia. The creation of the NATO-Russia Council at the Rome Summit in May was groundbreaking. Norway ended last October as leader of the NATO force in Kosovo, KFOR. Norway is experiencing the forthcoming EU enlargement. It is an important contribution to lasting peace and stability in Europe. Through the action plan for Norway’s cooperation with the candidate countries, we have wanted to help guide the candidate countries to a future EU and EEA membership. The government has further led Norway's involvement in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, and is actively taking part in efforts to improve the organisation's ability to prevent and resolve conflicts. Norway has continued its commitment with allies and partner countries in 2002 to ensure stability and democratic development in the Balkans. The government has seen it as important to contribute to the consolidation of the reform processes in the countries of the Western Balkans and to their long-term integration into European and transatlantic cooperation institutions. In our own two-sided relationship with Russia, the Government has focused on further developing broad cooperation in areas such as the environment, nuclear security, education, health, defence and business. At the same time, it is clear that several of the major challenges facing Russia cannot be solved without close cooperation with the international community. This is not least due to the enormous nuclear and environmental problems in the north. Furthermore, the government has carried out a strong Norwegian commitment to protect and strengthen human rights. The International Criminal Court was formally established on 1 July this year. Norway's active participation in the UN Security Council and Norway's strong commitment to peace and reconciliation have continued. The work on peace and conflict resolution in Africa has been central to the agenda of the Security Council. Norway has played an important role, including: with regard to peace initiatives on the Horn of Africa. Norway has also taken an active part in facilitating the peace process for Sudan in cooperation with other United States and the United Kingdom. In March, Norway, as chairman of the Security Council, played a key role in the process of adopting two important resolutions on the Middle East. The Government has been given an impact by decision of the Security Council in May on the conversion of sanctions against Iraq. The government actively participated in the preparation and implementation of the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development in Mexico in March, the United Nations Special Session on Children in May, where we included children as delegates, and the Matt Summit in Rome in June. The Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development puts the search light on the link between poverty, health and the environment. Norway was an active driver for achieving results in important areas such as water and sanitation, harmful chemicals and the conservation of biodiversity. Norway has continued its commitment to facilitate the peace process in Sri Lanka and to negotiate a ceasefire agreement between the Sri Lankan Government and the Tamil Tigers. Norway took an active part in the new round of negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, with the aim of strengthening the international trading system and ensuring fairer international trading conditions. The government has presented its national strategy for sustainable development. The visibility of Norwegian attitudes and views through various press, information and cultural actions has been a priority. Norway has held the chairmanship of SHIRBRIG, Stand-By High Readiness Brigade for UN Operations in 2002. The International Brigade Formation was announced at the beginning of 2002 for peacekeeping operations under the auspices of the United Nations. In January, Norway ratified the Gothenburg Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and ground-based ozone. Norway has also ratified the Stockholm Convention on Organic Pollutants. Norway took an active part in the negotiation process on international environmental management, International Environmental Governance – IEG, which ended in February 2002. Norway has worked actively in international forums for the sustainable exploitation and management of marine resources. At the end of 2001, the value of the State Petroleum Fund was DKK 619 billion. The market value of the Petroleum Fund, including the Environment Fund, was DKK 605 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2002. From the end of 2001 until the end of the second quarter of 2002, the Fund has had a return of minus 13 pst. The weak developments are due partly to the decline in the international stock markets and partly to a strengthening of the krone price. The value added in mainland Norway, measured by gross domestic product at fixed prices, increased by 1,2 pst. last year, according to figures in the preliminary national accounts. Value creation increased in construction and services industries, while declines occurred in primary industries and in industry. Total GDP is slightly higher than mainland GDP in 2001 due to increased oil and gas extraction. Norway’s gross national income was DKK 1 502 billion, about DKK 50 billion more than in 2000. Last year more than 25,000 new dwellings were built in Norway. It's the tallest building in 11 years. In the first six months of this year construction was started at the top of 10,977 dwellings, a decrease of 7 pst. compared with the same period in 2001. In 2001, 120 840 passenger cars were first registered, an increase of 4.5 pst. from the previous year. By the end of last year there were a total of 1,873,000 passenger cars in Norway, an increase of 20,000 cars from the previous year. In the first seven months of this year, about 3 pst were first registered. more passenger cars than in the same period last year. The consumer price index went up by 1.4 pst. from August to August this year. On average, consumption prices so far in the year have risen by 0.9 pst. compared with the same period last year. Adjusted for tax changes and excluding energy products, consumer prices on average have risen by 2.5 pst. The external balance of operations showed a surplus of DKK 115 billion in the first six months of the year. That's $5.3 billion less than in the same period last year. Norway's net claims on the rest of the world increased by just under 100 billion dollars in the first six months of the year and are estimated at NOK 721 billion at the end of June. In the first eight months of this year, the export and import value of traditional goods was 8.9 pst in turn. and 10.5 pst. lower than in the same period last year. The descent must include one of the following: See in this context that the Norwegian krona has been stronger. For mainland Norway, the external trade balance shows a deficit of $44 billion in the first half of this year, which is $2 billion less than last year. After several years of continuous growth, the export value of fish and fish products decreased from 2000 to 2001. In 2001, the export value amounted to NOK 30.2 billion, which is a decrease of 800 million. kr in relation to the previous year. The production of oil, gas and wet gas in 2001 was just over 252 million. Sm3 oil equivalents. That's an increase of 3 pst. in relation to the previous year. In the first months of this year, total production has been higher than at the same time last year. This is mainly due to increased exports of natural gas. The petroleum sector has a central place in the Norwegian economy. Last year, the sector stood for 23 pst. of the total value creation in the country, 45 pst. of the export value and 22 pst. of the real investments. The revenue from the sector corresponds to 32 pst. of the total income held by the State in the same year. The value of oil and gas exports in 2001 was about 300000 million. kr. That's about the same thing as the year before. The net cash flow of the State from the petroleum industry was SEK 243 000 million. 2001 kr. There was considerable uncertainty about developments in the oil price in the autumn of 2001. In order to help stabilise the oil market and prevent the oil price from falling to an undesirable level, Norwegian oil production was reduced by 150000 barrels per year. the day of the first half of 2002. The measure was unilateral and not part of a formalised agreement with OPEC or producers outside OPEC. Due to better oil market balance and oil demand growth expectations in the second half of the year, production reduction was not continued beyond the first half of the year. 6.4 pst. of the State’s direct financial involvement – DIEE – was sold to Norwegian Hydro and other companies in the spring of 2002. In total, parts were sold in 30 extraction channels, and 9 companies bought parts. The pieces were sold for a total of $8.4 billion The allocation of new land has been completed in two stages of the last year. In the 2001 North Sea allocations, a total of 10 blocks, or parts of blocks, were allocated to 12 companies. In the 17th round of the concession, 18 blocks, or parts of blocks, were allocated to 11 companies in the Norwegian Sea. The owners of the pipelines on the continental shelf agree on the conditions for a common ownership structure of the gas transport system. The ownership structure shall be thwarted and approved by the governing powers. New regulations on the principle of access to pipelines and tariff fixing have been put in place. The EU Gas Market Directive is implemented in Norwegian legislation through necessary legislative changes. Through the Snow White extension, the largest and most extensive industrial expansion so far in North Norway, and the first large enterprise, is related to oil and gas in the part of the country, a fact. Efforts have been made to ensure the consistency of all-year petroleum activities in the northern sea areas of Lofoten and northwards. Investments in electricity supply were also low in 2001, about DKK 4.8 billion. This year, with normal rainfall, Norway's watercourse and energy directorate estimates that production will be around 119 TWh. In 2001, the production of electricity was 121,9 tWh. Gross power consumption was 125,5 TWh, the highest consumption measured. In the Water Force and Power Balance message, the Government proposed to improve the security of the energy supply. Since 1 January 2002, Enova SF has been responsible for the country’s work in relation to renewable energy and energy saving. Norway wrote in June under an agreement to participate in the development phase of the next generation American fighter aircraft. The development of alternative projects should continue to be closely monitored. The government signed a contract in November for the purchase of 14 helicopters of type NH-90 to the Defense. The purchase is made in cooperation with Sweden and Finland. In December, the reference testing selection presented its findings on the framework conditions for value creation in Norway. In May, the Government presented its senior IT policy, eNorway 2005. The aim is to contribute to the creation of value in business, efficiency and quality in the public sector, participation and identity. As part of this work, a strategy for the export and internationalisation of ICT industries was presented in December and a strategy for electronic content was presented in April. The government has increasingly focused on electronic reporting by industry and the development of a community electronic signature infrastructure. An electronic market place for public procurement was established in June. In order to increase investment in research and development — R & D — from industry, the Government has established a tax-reduction scheme for corporate R & D as of 2002. The establishment of the tax-deduction scheme replaces the supplementary scheme for R & D projects under the direction of industry, the FUNN scheme. As part of the simplification work aimed at business, the Government has created a project to help clarify and document the impact of new legislation on business. A risk and vulnerability analysis for daily food for North Norway was completed in January 2002. This has been a decline in Norwegian registered ships in the merchant fleet of about 5 pst. measured in gross tonnes. The number of Norwegian seafarers on ships in Norwegian Ordinary Ship Register has decreased by about 6 pst. The number of Norwegian seafarers in the Norwegian International Ship Register has changed slightly. Sea transport is about 45 pst. of the transport work on the mainland. Last year, domestic passenger transport increased by 1.2 pst. in relation to 2000. The car stood for 75 pst. by the provision of passenger transport services. Road freight transport increased by 2.7 pst. Compared to 2000. Extensive noise protection measures along the road and rail networks have been implemented in order to meet the requirements of the limit values Regulation by 2005. Local and regional air pollution from road traffic has also been reduced as a result of reduced use of peak tyres and environmental requirements imposed on vehicles and fuels. Air traffic, measured in the number of passengers arriving and travelling over Norwegian airports, showed a decrease of 4,5 pst in 2001. Compared to 2000. The operation of NSB Gods was transferred from 1 January 2002 to the newly established CargoNet AS, owned by NSB together with the Swedish Green Cargo AB. From 1 July 2002, NSB BA and Posten Norge BA were converted into joint stock companies NSB AS and Posten Norge AS. In 2001, 11,522 people were injured and 275 killed in road traffic. There are 66 fewer deaths than in 2000. 6 people were killed in railway accidents in 2001 and 3 people were killed in aviation accidents. In the long-term security work, the government gives evidence that no fatal or life-threatening accidents will occur. The size is dealt with in our Storing Communication on Better Public Transport. Efforts in this field are included as one of several tools to ensure environmentally friendly development and a well-functioning urban community. Competition in the telecommunications market is increasing, but still not satisfactory. In June, a draft new law on electronic communications was launched. In May, the government issued a big message on the situation in the Norwegian mobile market. Otherwise, in April, eight four-digit telephone numbers were assigned to competing information services on the telephone. The government has continued its work on the principle of the organisation of public food management based on the mass management of the case. In the negotiations between the State and Norway’s Fiskerlag in the autumn of 2001 on the grant of aid to the fishing industry, the two contracting parties agreed on an economic framework of 90 million. kr. By opening new concessions for salmon and aure farming, the Government will help to initiate new activities in areas that are currently not fully used for aquaculture purposes. Of the 40 new concessions announced, more than half will be located in the three northernmost states. Allocations are co-financed from the Government to national salmon rivers and fjords. After it was decided to open up to the export of quail under certain conditions, a smaller quantity of quail product was exported to Iceland in July for the first time in many years. The spawning populations of several major species of bottom fish in the Barents Sea are low or subject to hard fishing. This increases the risk of poor recruitment. It is therefore a goal to reduce the fishing pressure so that fish stocks can grow. The stock of sej north of 62°N, solders in the Barents Sea, Norwegian herring herring and North Sea herring is in good condition. The mackerel population is growing well as a result of a common management strategy between Norway, the EU and the Faeroe Islands. On the other hand, the situation of the colmulary stock is uncertain. The establishment of a coastal State regime for the management of coal is not completed. In the North Sea, the situation of bottom fish populations is serious, especially for cod. Norway and the EU have reduced total quotas for 2002. In addition, the parties have continued their efforts to improve the pattern of catches in the North Sea. The stock of seas in the North Sea, on the other hand, is good. A proposal to introduce blacklisting as a measure against illegal and uncontrolled fishing in international waters has been passed on to the Commission on live marine resources in Antarctica. The Ministry of Fisheries is pursuing control measures in the fishing industry with a view to improving resource control and management of living marine resources. Efforts to improve the operational conditions of the fishing fleet have continued, including: by adapting the capacity of the fishing fleet to the resource base, with a view to improving the profitability of the vessel and laying the basis for renewal. The unit quota scheme has been introduced for almost all groups within the sea fishing fleet. The implementation of good operational and structural arrangements within the coastal fleet is now under way. The selection that has assessed the ownership issues in the fishing fleet presented the resolution in June. The Coastal Directorate has moved from Oslo to Ålesund from 1 January 2002. From the same date, a production unit was established at the district office in Kabelvåg. In January, the Minister of Labour and Administration made a statement to the Grand Duchy on the work on user redress, modernisation, efficiency and simplification that the Government is doing. Decentralisation and delegation were highlighted as the most important means of achieving the goal. The Storting discussed in May the major message on health, environment and safety of the petroleum industry. On the basis of an odelstningsproposition launched in December, the Stortinget has adopted a new law on fire and explosion protection. The law, which applied in July, brings together three laws to one and reduces the number of regulations. New health, environmental and safety legislation on the base was introduced on 1 January 2002. The new legislation is simplified by reducing 14 regulations for the operation to 5. The government has begun to review the HMS regulatory framework based on business as a target group. On the basis of an odelstningsproposition presented in June, the size has made changes to the provisions of the Working Environment Act on overtime and at the same time remove the job protection for senior executives who have a payroll contract. At the end of the «Women, Quality and Competences in the State» project, the percentage of women in senior positions in the country was increased from 22 pst. in 1997 to 28 pst. in 2002. The government has set a new target to at least 40 pst. representation of both sexes by 1 January 2006. Procedural requirements for recruitment to state senior management settings have been established. The Government has adopted an action plan on competition policy. The powers of competition authority shall be strengthened. Public regulation shall be reviewed and public procurement, the hall of state companies and the organisation and operation of public works shall be set up in such a way as to stimulate competition. New and simpler rules for the calculation of benefits during medical rehabilitation and the application of professional rights were in force on 1 January 2002. In the 2002 wage settlement, federal or central additions were agreed in most of the major contract areas. In the areas where the agreements provide access to local negotiations, such negotiations have been conducted normally. New agreements have been concluded from 1 July on basic supplements and tariffs for private practitioners, physiotherapists and psychologists. Following a request from the Government, the Pension Commission presented a preliminary report only in September. The report will serve as the basis for further work in the Commission, which will continue until October 2003. The government has named a public selection to assess proposals for solutions by the end of the year to ensure that the VAT code is neutral in relation to decisions taken in the municipalities. The government has named an expert selection which, before the end of the year, will assess the principle of the design of the tax and tax system. The selection shall, in particular, assess the design of income and wealth taxes, both in terms of efficient resource use, distribution and simplicity, and whether the tax system is adequate to adapt to increased international mobility. On the basis of an odelstingsproposition presented in March, Stortinget has adopted a new Financial Instrument Registration Act – Securities Register Act. The law implies that the monopoly previously held by the Swedish Securities Agency in operating such a registration is replaced by concession requirements in order to operate such a business. On the basis of an odelstingsproposition made in March, the Stortinget has made a legislative amendment to transform savings banks into limited liability companies or public limited liability companies. New legal measures against terrorism took effect in June. With the amendments to the law, the United Nations Convention on Terrorist Financing and Resolution 1373 of the UN Security Council of 28 September 2002 was implemented on 9 December 1999. A number of legislative changes were adopted in June to ensure that criminal proceedings were speeded up. At the same time, the rules on custody detention in isolation were amended to ensure more defence of custody cases where the intention is kept isolated and to limit the use and length of such isolation. A new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions came into force in March. The law provides a modern and good framework for the implementation of penalties in prison and establishes a new social penalty. This is an important contribution to reducing relapse and thus reducing crime. The government has continued its efforts to combat crime among children and young people. Aproposal on legal measures against child and juvenile delinquency was put forward in June. Work on counter-choice measures has also continued. Changes in laws have been made to prevent illegal use of knives and firearms. Furthermore, there are proposals for changes to the promises to make a visit ban a more effective tool to prevent violence. As part of the follow-up to the Action Plan on Violence against Women, projects have been established to develop models for the prevention of violence, cooperation between relevant bodies and assistance to victims and offenders. Mobile election alarms are being developed further. A statement on the position of the offended person in the criminal proceedings has been submitted. In this context, a question is raised about strengthening the legal position of parents of children who have been killed by a criminal offence. In July, the government published an action plan against racism and discrimination. The action plan contains a number of actions. The implementation of the measures has taken place. In recent years, the government has produced a report with proposals for measures to protect witnesses in criminal proceedings against threats, represals, etc., in the context of an alarming increase in the use of threats to witnesses in criminal matters. The Directorate of Police has been entrusted with the task of implementing certain measures with immediate effect. The new Consumer Purchases Act came into force in July. Laws have a background in an odelsting proposition that was made in March. From 1 January 2002, the elected government took over the operation of the Longyearbyen local government. The Longyearbyen local government replaces the Svalbard Council, but has a monthly further responsibility. On the basis of a proposal made in December, Stortinget has adopted a new personal name law. In the laws, the government has provided a more liberal hold to naming forms, to what middle and last names people can use and for the use of foreign name schemes. In August, an odelstungsproposition was presented to the Stortinget with proposals for changes to the planning and building laws leading to a more efficient and simpler construction axis process. There is also a proposal for changes to the laws on planning and building, such as: contain deadlines for planning and better access to maps and spatial information, which will provide for faster and more efficient handling of planning and construction projects. The government has named a law selection to review planning and building laws to simplify building legislation. The new law on elections to local government and county councils came into force in September. The proposal from the Government that municipalities and county councils may put the audit firm in a position to compete has been approved by the Stortinget. The size has handled a large-scale report on the division of tasks between state, county and municipality. In order to ensure an effective rural and regional policy in the future, a selection –Effectiveness Selection – has been reduced to assess the impact of different types of State action on rural policy objectives and regional development. The government has presented its common policy platform in the additional communication on the common policy. In June, the government presented an action plan containing measures to increase participation in the community of children and young people with a migrant background. The law-selection of the law against ethnic discrimination delivered the order in June. As part of the work on softening the legislation on labour immigration to Norway, the Government has introduced legislative and regulatory changes to facilitate the recruitment of skilled workers from abroad. In the last year, a number of measures have been taken in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs with a view to improving the efficiency of the business and reducing the duration of treatment for foreign affairs. The size has joined the additional government communication on Norwegian climate policy, which provides suggestions for more offensive policies and more and more concrete measures in the field of climate change. To gain more knowledge about the effects of global warming and adaptation to a changing climate, the government has allowed funds for a new research programme: ClimateEffects. In September, the government presented a proposal for a new law on environmental information, which will ensure that everyone is entitled to environmental information and to participate in decision-making processes that have an impact on the environment. The cultural memory selection presented the setting "Forgetting the Future" in December. On the basis of a government proposal, the size decided to strengthen efforts to preserve cultural memory and the cultural environment by creating a 200 million cultural memory fund. kr in the revised national budget. The government created in December the Forolhogna National Park, the first new national park in Norway in 10 years. The Dovre National Park has been extended to Dovrefjell-Sunndalsfjella National Park and, together with its landscape protection area, is now the largest protected area in Norway. The protection shall ensure an intact high-mountain search system with wild reeds, yerv, mountain reefs, royal eagles and ravens. Svalbard should be between the world's best managed wilderness areas. The Svalbard Environmental Act was adopted on 1 July. The government has also protected Bear Island as a nature reserve. In order to strengthen the protection of the wild species, the Government has submitted a landfill proposal proposing the establishment of 37 national salmon rivers and 21 national salmon fjords. The government has proposed and the Storting has agreed to an increase in the exploits of coniferous forest protection, which is to be made available through the Earth Fund. It will help to ensure the rich biological deficiency of our forests, and it will also improve the competitiveness of Norwegian wood-based products in markets that are environmental conscious. The Stortinge has addressed the urban and urban environment impact assessment, as the Regeninga presented in April. In order to promote the good life of cities and agglomerations, the Government will pay particular attention to measures for good outdoors, green lungs, cleaner air, less noise, better health and safety. Environmentally friendly urban development will require better land use and prioritisation of public transport, bicycle and pedestrian routes. The government has strengthened its efforts to reduce the emission of radioactive waste from Sellafield. In June, the government presented a comprehensive communication on child-rearing and living conditions in Norway. The government has prioritised the fight against coerciveness and gender mutilation and presented in our planning papers ‘Renewal of efforts to combat coerciveness’ and ‘Government’. As part of the effort to combat coercion, the Government has sent a proposal for changes to the marriage law on the listener. The introduction of mandatory testing of the matrimonial conditions is one of the proposals. The government proposed a series of measures to strengthen the protection of children and young people in the main communication on the protection of children and young people presented in July. The government has proposed changes to the rules for setting and changing the fatherhood of children. The proposal includes: aimed at strengthening the right of children to know their biological origin. The government has seen work trials as part of the process of reducing the pay gap between men and women. The Consumer Council has been set up as a management body with special powers by means of new statutes from 1 July and a management board has been set up for the organisation. The government has made proposals for changes to the Debt Regulations. The proposal will clarify and simplify the current law and facilitate the establishment of a debt regime with public creditors, including tax and tax creditors. The government has submitted and Stortinget has agreed to new warranties in the marketing laws. These tools will help to clarify the legal situation and make both business and consumers more aware of the differences between guarantees and complaints. With effect from 1 January 2002, the government has reorganised the central social and health administration. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs was created. A number of activities have been merged in the Directorate for Social and Health and in the National Institute for Public Health. From the same time, health oversight has been a pure body of oversight. The government has put forward an odelstingsproposition with amendments to the Special Health Services Act to allow the State Health Inspectorate to determine the periodic penalty payment in connection with the impositions imposed under the Special Health Services Act. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999–2006 has been followed up in line with the intentions of the Stortinget. A selection is created to evaluate the funding form of the specialist services. In the last few years, the social security system has worked especially to get disability pensioners back to work. A tool that ensures that all the incentives to increase labour income are given after each result. The social security system has now received hundreds of income-giving jobs. There is now a proposal from the Government to grant time-limits for unpaid pay to people who still have some work capacity, while permanent disability benefits should only be paid to people who are 100 pst. unemployed. Organised and comprehensive social security abuse shows a worrying trend. The government has therefore supported the call from the social security system to set up its own abuse groups in the social security system to counter this. Changes in the laws recently adopted make the social security system better able to detect social security abuse. The government has named a selection to assess the content, quality and organisation of the initial training. The selection has come with a partial presentation with proposals for a national quality assessment system. In the Ministry of Education and Research, the procedure for applying for private school law has been curtailed and a more liberal practice has been introduced. In order to improve the learning environment for children and young people, the Government has made proposals on legal requirements for the school environment and on guidance that gives students more to say in school. The government has made it easier to experiment and has developed Be Active posters to make better use of the classroom at school. A bonus and demonstration school scheme has been introduced from autumn 2002. The number of hours in Norwegian is increased by three hours at the secondary school stage, and there is a new and simplified curriculum in the KRL subject. The National Centre for Mathematics in Training was established in August. A proposal has been submitted for the training of principals and master's degrees in school leadership. A dialogue has been launched with the local central association on better and more professional ownership in Norwegian school. The government has opened up a bigger pay differential for teachers and teachers. A country-wide pre-school teacher and teacher recruitment campaign with special emphasis on recruiting men and people with bilingual competence has been carried out in order to attract more applicants for teacher training. The number of applicants for general and vocational training has increased monthly. The government has produced a bill that clarifies the principle of free time in primary school. Grown-ups who need it will be entitled to primary education from August 2002. The government has set up a Forum on Competence and Work as a meeting place for political governance, the social partners and educational institutions. National systems of documentation and valuation of real competences are being established. A loan scheme for school buildings and facilities, including broadband, is in place. A new financial support scheme is in place for higher education students from the autumn of 2002. The arrangements include: that students receive increased support from the Loan Fund and that part of the scholarship payments depends on the obtained weights. As part of the Quality Reform in Higher Education, the Government has presented and the Stortinget handle new university and higher education laws, reports on new degree structures in higher education, reports on the recruitment of scientific staff to universities and colleges, and reports on higher education. The government has also provided a big message on Sami higher education and research. National body for quality in education has been set up to ensure the quality of higher education. In order to ensure progress in the implementation of the Quality Reform also for private higher education institutions, the Government has made proposals for changes in private higher education law. The Act is signed by Stortinget and took effect on 1 July. The government has also presented a proposal for a new law on public schools. In June, 13 research centres were identified. The government has followed up the evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council by adopting a model with a single research council, but with major changes compared to the current system. The capital of the Research and Innovation Fund is increased, Niels Henrik Abel's memory fund in mathematics is created and the Abel Prize is to be awarded for the first time in 2003. The government has presented a bill on increasing the commercialisation of research results. Christianity, as a truth and tradition, is still a pillar of society and culture, both local and national, despite growing cultural and religious shortages. The number of members of the Norwegian Church is stable at 86 p.m. by the people, and the inauguration of ecclesiastical acts such as baptism, confirmation, marriage and burial are high. The necessary remedial and protective measures have been carried out by the railway of the museum in Kongsberg, so that the track could be opened in July of this year. In the treatment of the wholesale communication on objectives and instruments of media policy, the majority of the population has joined the adjustments in the press and advertising policy of the state that had been proposed. A draft resolution on changes in broadcasting laws has been put forward as a follow-up to a convergence agreement – merging – of the telecommunications, data and media sectors. A concession for analogue nationwide advertising funded radio has been announced for the period 2004–2014. A concession for the right to expand and operate a digital television network has been announced. The conversion of film policy has been completed in 2002, in line with the main principles agreed by the Storting. For 2002, the part of the surplus in Norwegian Typing AS is for sport 858,3 million. kr. Of this, it's set of 428 million. NOK 299,5 million for sports facilities. SEK 86 million for the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee. for direct contributions to work for children and young people in local and associations and 44,8 million. kr for other sport purposes. The size has agreed to change the key, so that after a transition period of three years, the surplus of Norwegian Typing AS will be distributed equally between sport and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-02.ana.ud2479e561	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, ladies and gentlemen! The 147th. Storting, which your Majesty has opened today, goes to his responsible work for a time of unrest and unforeseeableness. The international community of which we are part is subject to great pressure. The repercussions after 11 September last year continue to characterise an entire world, in terms of security and economics. In addition, the situation in the Middle East is perhaps more tense than for a long time. Nevertheless, we have an obligation not to lose faith in the future and that it is useful to do something. Through our membership of the UN Security Council, we have a special responsibility to contribute to constructive solutions in the framework of recognised principles of international law. As the Supreme Representative of our People's Government, Stortinget will contribute conscientiously to this work. I feel sure that the Storting will form the basis for its treatment of the respect for human rights and the humanistic view of humanity that we are so committed to defending. The throne speaks of many major, important and difficult issues that the Storting will be dealt with. It will be our prime common task to contribute to the preservation of the quality of life and the welfare society that is laboriously and collectively built up in our country. Creating employment security and an inclusive working life, as well as working with climate policy, will be very central to this growth. The same applies to continuous efforts for improvements in education, health care and care for the elderly. We must also keep the fight against violence and crime in focus. In particular, organised crime will confront us with ever-increasing challenges. We are shaken by terrible criminal acts also in our homeland and feel despair and sorrow, but are also filled with anger and disbelief. It will actively contribute through its negotiations to create a safer society. Complicated issues in the wake of the increasing brutalisation in society will also soon have to be addressed by the Stortinge when dealing with the recently issued proposition on changes to the police and criminal law. As your Majesty is aware, it is proposed here that a person who is exposed to serious threats may be assigned a notional identity if other protective measures are not considered to provide him with adequate protection. It is bad to think that it has now become necessary in our country to assess this type of action. However, for the security of the population, we must deal with the world in which we live, not a dream of what it should be like. As a general rule, the size of the harvest session will be concentrated mainly on the adoption of the State budget for the coming year. The parliamentary situation means that there can be a complex task that will make great demands both on the individual representative and on the Stortinget as a whole. However, I believe that, despite the disagreement on many issues, we feel a shared responsibility for providing the country with a decent budget for the next year as well, and that it will be adopted within the framework of the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many and large tasks ahead of us, we gather in the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King and Her Majesty the Queen then left the great hall, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-02.ana.ud2479e582	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
